ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u1	3. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - second reading We continued to discuss this point on 7 April this year at the 91st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The general debate has been interrupted. I would like to see Mrs Lucie Šafránková and Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová take the position at the rapporteur's table. I remind you that, at first reading, we ordered this House press to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee, and the press was ordered by the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 652/2 to 8. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate in which we have the Members enrolled. Just a reminder that Mrs Olga Richterová's speech was interrupted. [[Members of the Pirate Party are discussing in a crowd outside the speaker's desk.]] So, Mrs Richterová, do you wish to continue the interrupted performance or not? Or after Mr. Montenegro? There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. About the interrupted performance, I have to apologize in person for business reasons for an hour and a half. However, here it came down to the fact that a comprehensive amendment was recorded at the last minute, to which we amended the amendments, and now we agreed that it was necessary to resolve this in a procedural manner. I'm gonna be out of line, but it's all about technically editing our prints that have to be recorded. So the solution would be to interrupt this point now and discuss it later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u3	Well, there's a suggestion, but that's not exactly a procedural proposal. Wait... now... I get it, no, come on... So, Mrs Richterová is basically sorry. Mr Lukáš Černohorský has the floor now, so maybe you can tell us your wishes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u4	I just... I have now signed up with priority rights, it is not yet in the debate. I would therefore propose, at this point, that, in agreement with the applicant, that we interrupt this point in the discussion of paragraph 6 with the fact that we would... excuse me, to point 5 with a view to discussing points 4 and 5, then we would go back to that point and in the meantime prepare those amendments. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u5	Sorry, yes. Chairman of the SPD Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u6	Mr President, allow me to request a five-minute recess for the club meeting and we will agree on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u7	I'm declaring a five-minute break by 15.39 for a briefing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u8	A pause has passed, so Mr. Lukáš Černohorský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u9	It's just, let it be on the screen record: we have agreed that we will try to prepare an amendment in the meantime, so I am withdrawing the proposal that I have made at the moment, and if it takes some time, we will resolve it with a break, but let the discussion run. I need to get the other papers on my desk, and I'll be right back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u10	All right, we'll wait benevolently, Mr. Vice President of the club. [[It's a short break.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u11	Thank you for the floor. At this point, I have another opinion on the proposal put forward by colleagues from the SPD. Again, it was sent by Dr Stanislav Křeček, and I would like to introduce you to him in the meantime, before the amendments are prepared: "Dear Member, honourable Member, I appeal to you in connection with the proposal of Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others for the law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on aid in material distress, as amended. This is House press number 652. On 10 February 2021, the proposal was partly discussed in the second reading at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, with a number of amendments, including a comprehensive amendment by Mr Marek Novák and others, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs worked on. I have become familiar with the content of the proposal and I would like to send my opinion on it. I have found that the comprehensive amendment adopts some of the provisions originally contained in the draft Housing Amendment Act, which was sent by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the external commentary procedure at the end of 2009. On many of the provisions, my predecessor in office has also made other comments that I fully agree with, but have not been dealt with to date. Nevertheless, some of these provisions are now adopted unchanged into a comprehensive amendment, but without the possibility of my and other key social actors, such as regional authorities, the Agency for Social Inclusion and others, to comment on the bill. I therefore take advantage of the opportunity to comment on the problematic parts of the proposal at least this way. To begin with, I would like to express my concern that the substantial tightening of the benefits of aid in material distress, which is undoubtedly the proposed proposal, occurs at the time of the pandemic. The social consequences of the pandemic can be expected to be felt most by the poorest. From this point of view, now is the least appropriate time to find savings in a system that is the least expensive compared to other non-insurable social benefits subsystems. At present, more than ever, the system of benefits in material distress should play the role of the last rescue network before people fall into poverty and social exclusion. Although the fundamental certainty of people, such as the personal performance of compulsory schooling for children, is now not working, the legislature introduces draconian sanctions for persons in material distress, which do not properly fulfil the obligations of synergies. I consider the new sanctions imposed for breach of the obligation of a person in material distress to be completely disproportionate, as they will lead to refusal of batch assistance for a very long time. In some cases, it is even the punishment of a person in material distress for a situation that was caused by someone else. This may result in a situation which is also contrary to constitutional order. The right to assistance in material distress is guaranteed by Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (2) The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the legislature cannot lay down conditions in such a way that it is not effectively emptied." Below, the doctor summarizes his reservations in more detail on certain points of the comprehensive amendment. Amendment of the Act on Assistance in Material Needs: To paragraph 6, that is to say specifically to § 3 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) In the proposed provision, the doctor sees three sets of problems: "A new person in a material emergency is not considered to be a person who has been rejected for defined reasons. Such penalties shall have their place in the case of recipients of benefits of assistance in material distress, but not at the time of the request for benefit. The applicant may not be able to prove all the necessary supporting documents at the first request or, for various reasons, he/she may cease to communicate with the Authority, such as a change in the social situation and the like. However, this cannot prevent him from asking for a dose again the next month. I consider the exclusion of such an applicant for six months from the possibility of receiving benefits in material distress to be completely disproportionate. The proposal further extends the period during which the person is not considered to be in material distress to six months instead of the three months to come. I consider the current adjustment to be adequate in the event of non-compliance with the benefit recipients. I consider its further tightening to be inconsistent with the purpose of the Act on Assistance in Material Need. The proposal also newly provides for the possibility of withdrawal due to the inconvenientness of the apartment in the event that the defects for which the apartment would be considered inappropriate are not removed within a specified time limit. I believe that this is a situation which, in most cases, cannot be affected by the applicant for benefits or beneficiaries. Nevertheless, he is deprived of the right to all benefits of assistance in material distress for six months. In my opinion, such sanctions have no basis. The current legislation knows the mechanisms in which the employment office, in cooperation with the municipality, leads persons in material need to seek adequate standard housing. If a person cooperates with these entities in the search for housing, it is not appropriate to dispose of all batch assistance.' Therefore, further reservations point to paragraphs 24 to 29. It concerns Section 33 and the following: "I understand the efforts of the petitioner that flats that do not comply with construction technical requirements for proper use should not be supported in the long term. However, I do not consider it appropriate to try to achieve this objective by refusing or withdrawing benefits from the tenant of the apartment. If the apartment does not meet the newly defined parameters, the main tool to ensure the proper construction-technical condition of the property should be the inspection of the building office. In its framework, the construction office finds, inter alia, the construction-technical state of the building, whether the life and health of persons or animals, safety or the environment are at risk. In the event that this is the case, it may order security work or necessary adjustments. In this way, the status of the property should be achieved which does not prevent its proper use. If such a condition is prevented by the property owner's synergies, it is not appropriate to punish the tenant by withdrawing or refusing to grant benefits. In a broader sense, the problem is also linked to the availability of adequate housing in suitable apartments. In addition, there is no obligation of the lessor to provide the tenant with an apartment compensation for the time necessary adjustments. In view of the limited housing market and the low number of municipal apartments, it may be difficult for tenants to rent an apartment for the time necessary adjustments. It is not clear from the proposal whether and to what extent the tenant will receive an additional housing fee for the period of the necessary adjustments. Furthermore, I fear that the assessment of the implementation of the basic standards for housing will disproportionately extend the procedure for applying for a benefit by involving other authorities, such as public health authorities, construction offices and others. The time limit for the decision is not limited by law. According to the Administrative Rules, it shall be extended for the period necessary to implement the request. I am already encountering cases where the control of the housing quality standard takes disproportionately long time. In such a case, the applicant does not have the means to pay for the housing. In view of the above, I propose not to introduce the Institute of Assessment of Basic Standards for Housing at all." Those are the doctor's words. [[15.50 hours]] Other complaints relate to changes in the Act on State Social Support, namely points 11, 15, 16 and 20. It is specifically § 24a, § 51 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4: "I do not agree with the establishment of an apartment suitable for housing and the assessment of whether it is such an apartment, for the housing allowance. In detail, I refer to the justification for the proposed Section 33 and the following Act on aid in material distress. In the case of beneficiaries of the housing allowance, there may also be a problem with the fact that the law allows only the tenant or owner of the apartment to grant the benefit. If he were temporarily living in another form of housing, such as a hostel, he would not have to receive a housing allowance.' Another reservation is directed to point 14, namely § 30 para. 2: "I do not agree with the proposed restriction on the possibility of drawing the full amount of parental allowance, i.e. CZK 300,000, is 1.5 times in the case of multiples, in the event of a change in the family in which the child lives. The application is in direct conflict with the settled case law of the administrative courts. The Supreme Administrative Court in Judgment of 16. 5. 2017 n.e.c. 6a10 21/2017-23 expressly stated that parental allowance is the claim of the caring parent, not the child that the parent cares for. If the child's family changes, for example from foster parents to temporary periods, the child goes into the care of future adopters, the total amount of CZK 220 000 cannot be considered to be shared by the two carers, both from the first and second families, albeit both, not simultaneously, but gradually, taking care of the same child, not caring for the same youngest child in the same family and not being together persons considered within the meaning of Section 7 (1). 1 of the same law. A caregiver in a new family is entitled to parental allowance regardless of whether and to what extent the caregiver in the previous family drew it. The Regional Court in Hradec Králové added in a later judgment of 19. 12. 2019 v n.e.c. The same interpretation of § 30 para. 1 Act on State Social Support as Supreme Administrative Court. The Court of First Instance accepted this interpretation even after the amendment of the cited Act No. 200/2017 Coll., which excluded entitlement to parental allowance in foster parents for a transitional period. The Regional Court expressly referred the conclusions of the Supreme Administrative Court to the applicant's situation as a long-term guardian. If the petitioners point to the possibility of abuse of the long-term foster care institute by entrusting children to a wider family of biological parents, they are actually criticizing the decision-making of the courts. These are intended to consider the individual circumstances of each case in the custody of a child and, according to them, to vote for an appropriate institute, for the care of another person or for foster care. Changing the rules on social security for children under four years of age is not an appropriate way to regulate or, where appropriate, disunity in judicial decision-making. It is also not appropriate to adopt general rules based on a case-by-case idea of one possible model of dose abuse. There may also be a problem with the exhaustion of a significant amount of parental allowance in the previous family in cases where the child was with biological parents and is later entrusted to the adopters. However, according to the proposed legislation, they could only vote for the remaining part that the biological family did not have. In such a situation, the current legislation, or its interpretation by the Supreme Administrative Court, is more gentle on the right of alternative parents to help the state. For these reasons, the rules on parental contribution should not be amended in any way. I believe that in further deliberation of the law, a way will be found to exempt these contested provisions from the proposal. Otherwise, I fear that a group of people who will be adversely affected by the bill will have a deepening of poverty and social exclusion, which can lead to an increase in tensions in society and an increase in the incidence of socially undesirable phenomena." This letter was therefore sent to all members of the Committee on Social Policy and to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Concerned about the impact of the proposal on persons in material distress, the applicant for state social aid benefits and its beneficiary, the Ombudsman, if necessary, also informed the public. I, on the basis of this letter and the reservations that are there, am making a motion to reject this press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u12	Now Mrs Olga Richterová was to follow, but she apologized. Mr Marek Novák will therefore appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u13	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, I have already had a rather long description of the comprehensive amendment that we tabled here during the last debate, together with Members Lucia Šafránková, Alena Gajdůšková, Hana Aulicka Jírovcová, Jan Bauer, Jana Pastuchová, Lenka Dražilová, Eva Fialová, David Kasal, Karel Rais and Věra Procházková. Over time and, of course, on the basis of other information and objective information, we returned to the press once more within our group of submitters. I must say that we have worked quite intensively, we have made some adjustments in the press, and I would say that concessions, especially in the area of parental adjustment. In the newly recorded comprehensive amendment, the withdrawal of the parental contribution is no longer covered. It is not even a good time for us to withdraw or reject parental contributions from foster parents. Further, of course, especially with regard to Mr Ombudsman's letter, although actually at the time when we were reading the comprehensive amendment, there was also another amendment to the complex presented, and that was the effectiveness - so-called divided. We have also incorporated this efficiency into one comprehensive amendment. And I have to say, I'm quite sorry that Mr. Ombudsman hasn't noticed that we're dealing with efficiency there, that he hasn't noticed that we're giving space to social services, to the OSPODs and other organizations to help people in need, because we certainly don't want the law as such - we don't want him to lose those people's housing, put them out on the street, we certainly don't want that. We just want and only equal rules, rules that can't be passed, and rules that are equal to everyone. That's all we really want, that's our intention. And that is why I must say, of course, that since the law was passed, it will be about five years, for example, for people to get their homes in order. I don't know which one of you was in the excluded locations, the apartments that people live in. I understand that an adult is single, he can decide for himself how he's going to live, if he lives in a nice apartment, where the water runs, where he's going to drown the heating, where there's gonna be glass in the windows, where they're going to close the door from the apartment, where there's gonna be toilets, where there's gonna be a shower, just these basic things that you kind of use and take for granted these days. Our definition of the apartment is not strict. I understand that if we put in that apartment that's being dosed, it has to have a Wi-Fi connection, it's probably gonna pick up some kind of wave. But imagine that an adult is entitled to a decision is free, but we should also realize that there are children living in those adult conditions. And if you don't care what conditions children live in, I don't care. And we should be taking care of the defenseless, not those who can defend themselves, but especially the defenseless. And this is one of the essential things. [[16.00 hours]] So I, more or less, as far as the press is concerned, and you'll find it in the system under 8404, I'm asking for his support, because the press really makes sense, and the press is leveling people's lives, and that's what we've been talking about all along, people's lives. Nobody wants to throw anybody out on the street, nobody wants to take anybody's life. We don't want people to freeze to death on the street, definitely not. So please remember that we only want equal rules for everyone. As far as this press is concerned, as such, we are not going to marry within the framework - Mrs Jirková. [[The MP's commenting on an incoming phone call.]] It's too late, but it's the Deputy. That we had discussions with those people, and we had discussions with the social workers who were telling us in the field: Well, finally, finally, somebody is interested in these people, we're finally going to have kids at school, and finally a few people are going to start going to work, because we're tired of bringing them by the hand here, too - I'm also very happy about that. However, we understand, among other things, that today's information systems, which the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has, are extremely complex. Forms that people have to fill out when they go to ask for, and I fill in when they're justly going to ask for a dose, so misfortune is to fill out such a form. And I have to say that I'm able to fill out my tax return without having to read any explanations or have to make a phone call to give me advice, but I'm afraid I'm not able to ask for a living for the first good one today, for example. And of course, the nonprofit organizations that beat us and say, "You're not helping those people at the employment office, for those officials are supposed to write the request for them." That's their job. It's not, it's not their job. The official is to assess whether the application is correct or not. Therefore, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the accompanying resolution in this press. The accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic to revise all forms used in the context of requests for benefits of state social support and assistance in material distress in the context of batch systems from the point of view (a) user-friendlyness; (b) the needs and necessity of the individual data; (c) duplication of individual data; (d) the need for a single comprehensive form to be used for reclaiming the supporting documents for individual benefits; and subsequently submitted the result of this revision to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic by 30. 6. 2021; II. asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs of the Czech Republic to do 15. 9. 2021 has submitted to the Chamber of Deputies a report on the updating of the forms made on the basis of the measures resulting from the outcome of the revision carried out in accordance with point 1 of this resolution and on their implementation.'; Dear friends, thank you for your attention and once again I ask you very much to support the comprehensive amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u14	Thank you. If necessary, I would like to present the accompanying resolution in a detailed debate. Now I'm going to introduce the House to the note, and then we're going to get to a point of fact. Mr Třešňák apologizes to us today between 16 and 18 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Výborný apologies from 15.40 to the end of the day due to the work programme in the region. Mrs Válková is now registered with the actual application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u15	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will follow up on my previous speaker. I really think it is a pity that the Ombudsman is not taking advantage of the legal possibility that, if he applies any observations of a more fundamental nature, but by excuse, he probably did not know that he was going to be at an emergency meeting that we did not expect to have in the longer term, this item of the programme is not here, because it would be interesting to explain some of the contexts that the Member here spoke about. I can only say that this problem has been troubling us for a long time. The solutions are all sorts of things. We have also discussed this issue, of course, in the Committee on the Rights of the Child, in the Government Committee, and clearly a good answer with a reliable result that this solution is optimal, in my opinion it does not exist. It is enough for me to make the factual point that, despite all the comments, which are partly justified, I would also advocate the adoption of a comprehensive amendment and other proposals that follow the line of helping the unhappy situation, albeit at first sight perhaps by too hard measures, to remedy, but not to go back to extreme. And we know that certain extremes are there, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u16	Thank you. We will now return to the general debate, so I will ask Mr Čižinský, who is next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u17	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the novel we're discussing here is about hardening, it's about repression. The comprehensive amendment tabled here by Mr Novák tightens the draft in some aspects, arguing that the person who behaves and does not break the law will not lose any benefits. The point is to get the inadaptable ones to finally adapt. Unfortunately, social work experience is such that repression does not really work. If it is said here that the threat of withdrawal will force those who commit misdemeanors to improve themselves, unfortunately, this does not work in many cases. It's not my speculation or my impression. It is confirmed by the practice of our social workers. The only thing that happens often is that those people simply lose their benefits in material distress, and unfortunately, they are often the ones who also have children. Many of the people involved have serious mental illness, and many of them are unable to think as healthy people are, that a misdemeanor means some kind of sanction. Organisations engaged in social work with clients suffering from mental illness warn very much about the adoption of this amendment and the amendments. And then there's the other aspect. If we take away these people's material distress, then the municipalities and the mayors will deal with it, because that's all there is to it. So I would like to support the motion to reject the law, because we should really inspire ourselves in those countries where social work works and where it has results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u18	Thank you and we will continue the general debate. Mrs Valachová is now signed in, Mr Holomčík will be prepared. [[Members shall draw attention to the facts.]] Excuse me, Mrs Šafránková, with a point of fact. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will allow you to respond to a colleague of Mr Čižinský, who was talking about the wrong Houses of the press. We are now discussing the 652 press, and you, through yours, have spoken to House Press 290, which is currently dealing with violations and subsequent enforcement by municipalities. So just so much to clarify.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for a very factual remark exactly for the purpose for which they are intended. Now, Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present briefly the two amendments that we are proposing together with my colleague Alena Gajdůškovášková. The first amendment is a proposal aimed at extending the possibility of using the housing contribution also for sublease relationships. We are aiming at this amendment to cooperative workers, because it is cooperative flats, which are a number of tenants that are being used and who, at the moment, do not, although undoubtedly living in standard housing, in cooperative housing, have the opportunity to make a contribution. At the moment, the housing allowance, colleagues and colleagues, is one of the few contributions, a way that provides people with affordable housing. That is why we have formulated this proposal and we believe that making it possible to make use of the housing allowance in this way means one of the fastest ways to expand the possibilities for affordable housing. We estimate that this could happen in the case of 20,000 to 30,000 households. This is what we think is right. I note that, in the case of debates on housing contributions, this proposal is repeated periodically, say, in expert discussions, as well as in the past, by the Ombudsman. I ask you to support this amendment. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs estimated the budgetary impact of this proposal on CZK 850 million. I believe that this amount is not high, so long as it means making decent housing available, keeping decent housing, standard cooperative housing for up to 30,000 households. I think this is the fastest way, and not expensive to ensure affordable housing in the shortest possible time. Of course, I also ask my fellow Members, co-submitting this proposal, to support this amendment. The second amendment also concerns a practical matter that is up to date. We all know - and we are not happy about this - that last year a number of households, and therefore children in these families, had a problem with access to online education, distance education, which is, of course, unacceptable. We are responding to this with a proposal that we consider modern, a trend that corresponds to the concept of social assistance and support for families, in this case especially families with children in terms of Internet connection and other countries in Europe. The purpose of this proposal is to include costs and regular payments for Internet connection in the justified housing costs next time. You all know that, as Vice-President of the Education Committee, I have been dealing with the right to children's education in the long term, and I believe, colleagues and colleagues, that you will believe that this proposal monitors the full guarantee of the right of children to education even in the period of distance education and the fight against COVID-19, and this opportunity, therefore, to allow regular payments on the Internet to be involved in justified housing costs, will be used and supported by this amendment. Thank you for your attention, of course, in a detailed debate, I will now briefly sign up for the numbers of both of these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u22	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Čižinský wishes to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u23	Thank you. I'd just like to come forward really. I actually spoke to this press. The fact that there are more prints that are going in this wrong direction is another thing, but really there are several prints that are meant to limit the system of aid in material distress, and I just wanted to point out - just like the other prints - that this is just the way in the wrong direction and that if we take people's material distress - these are the finances that are for food, for medicines - and it is very often the case with the children that Mr Novák has stuck in here, it is simply the way in a very bad direction. So I was speaking very correctly, I was talking about the press 652. And the fact that some of the press we're discussing here is even worse, that's the second thing. But that it's all the way to hell, unfortunately, in my opinion, it's a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u24	Thank you. And now I beg Mr Holomčík in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u25	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to present, very briefly, Mrs Richterová's proposals, but before I do so, I would like to thank Mrs Šafránková, Mr Novák, for the collegiate which they have presented with and seen changes to the comprehensive amendment, and I apologise for making this difficult, because we still need to adapt some of the proposals to the new draft, because we are also submitting amendments that are linked to this complex amendment. We're almost done with this. I am just stating that we will probably have to take a few minutes of a break in a detailed debate before my speech - it will really only be as long as it takes. I call and thank you for your indulgence and collegiality. So, Mrs - and I on her behalf - are prepared in the original version of 30, now it will be about 40 amendments. In brief: The amendment in the system under number 6529 concerns the abolition of school offences. The amendment introduced as 7410 concerns the abolition of adjustments to school offences by removing the whole point - that is to the amendment from the committee. Proposal 7411 concerns changes in the back-up period. 7412 concerns the notification requirement. 7413 concerns the persons considered together. 7414 is a change in the matter of consent to the entry into the dwelling. 7415 - is replaced by'may be', it is again on the committee's proposal. 7416 - shortening the period of reduction to three months, once again the amendment to the committee's proposal. 7417 - shortening the time of removal of material distress to one month. Then there is another group of proposals concerning the original draft law: 7846 in the case of 70% pension counting, 7848 concerns a substantial decrease in income, 7849 jurisdiction according to residence, 7850 involvement of the OSPODs, 7851 amendment of the SSP Act and the Act on the Living and existential Minimum. 7852 - Here we are already with the amendments that are linked to the complex amendment mentioned, which is in the system under 7852, but the modified version will be added, which concerns the burden of proof of the singles, where the sentence "must live in another apartment" is deleted. [[16.20 hours]] Then the proposals, which are already recorded under number 7854 and variant 8412, where the withdrawal of benefits for six months is cancelled, 7856 - do not disturb... sorry, now I'm a little lost... do not cancel the return on a living, 7859 - do not shut down the administrative order, allow appeal against the decision to waive the obligation to return 10,000. And another proposal is made as 8116, concerning meal vouchers - to return to a state of opportunity, not to pay a living allowance in vouchers, except for exceptions, after six months. The next proposal 8129 - education costs, part of child allowance, 8130 - concerns a bonus for the contribution to child education in material distress, 8131 - a allowance for a living at the rate of an existential minimum, only in the event of rejection of an offer from the Labour Office, 8132 - a contribution to the performance of the state administration, according to the number of persons in material distress. Furthermore, the proposal 8326 - which concerns emergency emergency aid for housing and bail, 8369 - concerns housing quality parameters and binds to the original bill, and actually the same proposal, again in two variants, under numbers 8370 and 8411, is again related to housing quality parameters and is a complex proposal by Mr Novák. Proposal 8371 and 8409 respectively - do not introduce incapacity for work for uninsured workers. Proposal 8372 and 8410, respectively - appeals against non-refund waivers, 8373 and 8406 respectively - the contribution and the lodgers. And the latest variant double proposal under number 8374 and 8407 - reduction of PNŽ only if it refuses work, public service, retraining or participation in the Labour Office project. So it was very, very brief. I do not want to prolong this debate at this point, this was a very brief presentation of the practically 40 amendments that will be recorded on this press. I will still join them in a detailed debate, and I hope that before we speak, we will probably be forced to take a short break to complete these proposals, and I thank my colleagues and colleagues once again for collegiality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u26	Thank you and we'll continue. Next up, Mr. Kolařík... [[The President shall remain silent.]] Cupcake. Sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, thank you. I would follow up on a colleague, Marek Holomčík, who has introduced a whole series of amendments here, and I would have pierced two here, which I think are very, very important. The first is the assessment of the quality of housing, it is under House document 8370, and the point is that the withdrawal of aid, the benefit, is done on the basis of the fact that these people live in poor housing. I don't think the man, the family who lives there, should be responsible for that, but the landlord. I understand the direction that we want people to live in good housing, but the punishment should not be directed at the family, but it should be directed to a landlord who rents an apartment that doesn't meet the basic standards. That's why we're proposing a pretty interesting adjustment there, and it's that the Labor Office, which would find out the shortage, would call on the owner to remove it, a problem with the quality of the apartment, and therefore it would be linked, a fine and a penalty for committing a misdemeanor, because if he hadn't, of course, he would have been fined, and that would have been a motivation for poverty traders to rent apartments that at least on the basis are in line with some standard for housing today. So that's the first one I wanted to talk to. I hope that it will not be a problem, because I do not see that there should be any controversial or complex, so I believe that you will consider supporting this amendment. And the second one, which I think is also very important, is -- we have a business-named bail mop, it's already being used today, but unfortunately not completely systemically -- and it's precisely that this extra instant help can be used to pay bail, because those people often, when they deal with the housing situation, they don't have bail, and that's for them the step that makes them not able to rent an apartment, and then they end up at the hostels, often with the kids, which we certainly can't support. It is an effective and in practice proven tool for housing households in housing emergencies or housing emergencies at risk. This is a proven assistance in the settlement of families with children and children's households, including young people leaving institutional care or those who are in the care of social curators. The current analysis of the Department of Social Inclusion of the Ministry of Regional Development has shown that bail mop is a very effective tool for solving the housing situation of households located in these substandard housing types. After 12 months of dosing, 85 percent of households maintained standard housing. Although this share of households decreased for a further 12 months, only six percentage points, so that after 24 months after the grant of the benefit, homelessness in more than three quarters of households was resolved, 79 percent. So from these data and from these numbers it is obvious that this aid really helps and is really needed, so I believe that even in this case you will consider supporting this amendment and support it. I will not comment on the law as a whole, for this is not a second reading, although I have many other reservations there, but I consider these two amendments to be crucial, which must really be approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u28	Thank you. That was the last application in the general debate at the moment. I still see Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will once again try to poke out the main reservation that we are trying to resolve with the amendment, and that is the problem that people living in inadequate apartments will be punished for this not only by losing benefits on the apartments, but also by losing benefits for a living. They also lose their food benefits because they live in inadequate apartments, and on the contrary, the proposal drives people into the residential housing business. That is the fundamental reservation, because the proposal really is not well worked out in this matter. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u30	Thank you. Mrs Aulická is now reporting in the debate, and then Mrs Válková with a factual view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, although I wanted or did not want to respond initially to my colleague Ferjenčík, by your means, must. What you're saying is simply not based on the truth, and the proposal, what you're saying would happen, it's just not true. It's very sad, I can understand it, and I think maybe even the plaintiffs can understand why you're saying it and why you're saying it. On the other hand - and we are also aware of your policy and we are more or less aware of the path you want to take and which, for example, is a priority for you - but what you are saying here and you said, so it's just not true. So just to unite the things that are presented here and which we are discussing. I would like, unfortunately, to give my speech to you, because you, as pirát, are preparing amendments that are supposed to correspond to the comprehensive amendment, and I am very sorry, and originally the speech that Mrs Richterová had at the last meeting, so it was more or less a performance just to prevent the second reading of this proposal, and perhaps also to prepare the amendments, and today you will still be presenting them. But I'm sorry that there are things that aren't true here, and it should really be said the way the proposal speaks and what it actually presents. [[16.30 hours]] I would like to say for myself that both the two proposals - Mr Čižinský, who was wrong here, wanted to speak to the Chamber of Press 290, then he said that he meant it in the same way in the form of this House press - so in our Ústí Region, I consult both the two proposals both with municipalities, labour offices, social unions in cities and municipalities, as well as, of course, with representatives in the region. I can tell you that, of course, we have a few representatives who speak in the same language as the pirát in the Chamber of Deputies or as a colleague of Čižinský, but more or less represent the same party or some non-profit organizations, which, at the same time, were needed for negotiations when they were done as serious - for me, or at least I think mostly for most people - a serious law prepared by the Ministry of Labour, and a working group created after so-called 15 measures to combat poverty, and the Ministry of Labour, indeed and Deputy Minister Beck, who was mentioned here, worked on this with Mr. This means that he addressed the form, the unification of the housing benefit and other parameters, whether we say what conditions this person should live in, whether it would be a standard housing form, a non-standard housing form, which are precisely non-residential premises or hostels, the transition to transforming residential hotels into standard housing form was also addressed there for a transitional period, we talked about about about about five years of renovating and making it possible for housing units to be dignified and to really no longer solve the forms that unfortunately are still in practice today. We, for example, do not really have a problem with hostels in the Ústí Region, that is to say, non-standard housing, hostels are used by really people who are simply unable to find the possibility of living in standard housing, whether they may have problems with their benefits or simply because they cannot live in those apartments, but on the other hand, we have a problem with the fact that our inadaptable residents - and I will say it this way - live in the standard housing form. I'm saying this on purpose because unfortunately, in the Ústí Region, except for Litoměřicka, it's very heavy on us and it's very heavy on us, even though it's not much to talk about in the covida age, but of course it still weighs on us. And by not telling you people - and I'm not saying this on purpose and I'm not saying in any way that they're all people in material distress or even on state social support, I'm just saying that unfortunately, there are people who can't adapt to the system and the laws of our republic, and it could be people who work. But it bothers us that the population is really huge and the laws we have in the Czech Republic do not allow self-government, but also other areas, whether the Police of the Czech Republic, then of course it builds on the social work, somehow solve the situation for the benefit of the whole situation. It also bothers us that our children do not go to school, that they are not completely normal in some families and in some groups, so that the children get up in the morning with their parents, go to their elementary school and really have lessons. To a large extent, it really is forgotten in some parts, it is neglected, and then there must be tough social work to get children into primary school. For example, we talked to some teachers that when we talk about a particular community, the kids are really excited, they go to first grade, they try to convince their parents to take them to the first grade, because they're having fun there, they just have a different world. It will last them until about the fourth grade and then, unfortunately, the life of the family drags them back into such a system that, in fact, why go to school. There's no need for it anymore, and it's really very bad then work somehow motivate the whole family to walk. They are more or less unhappy teachers themselves, directors, because even aggressiveness from the children's side and then parents themselves are getting bigger and bigger. We probably have the last story from Decin, where there really was a major attack on teachers. I know it happens everywhere in the Republic, but really, believe us that the great concentration of these troubled people in one place is something that only certain regions or just a small number of places in other parts of the region experience. Therefore, perhaps a colleague of Čižinský to these regions or these problems really - I don't want to say that he doesn't understand it, but more or less if you don't live there, you don't believe it. It's just a big problem that hasn't been dealt with here, and when we decided in 2018 that there'd be fifteen measures to combat poverty and that six ministries here would prepare something for us, they didn't prepare anything for us. And also about the law that I was talking about, about the addition to housing, which was supposed to be the beginning of some change, and more or less following the fact that the law on accessible housing, where it is supposed to be part of social housing, was prepared here by the parliamentary law, and it was actually put into place to discuss it at all. So I am waiting for further adjustments in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, because so far, as in the Chamber of Deputies and committees actually went through the first reading, waiting for second reading, so unfortunately I have to say that I am collapsing with self-government and the region itself in comments on this bill, and they themselves said that this bill cannot be adopted. This means that we cannot be so irresponsible in the Chamber of Deputies to adopt laws here just because it has a name, but the content will not correspond to the need for terrain. I am merely saying this to illustrate that the fundamental concept of available housing plus social housing, unfortunately, last term, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was unable to write in such a way as to be able to discuss in the Chamber of Deputies, and unfortunately the Ministry of Regional Development was unable to prepare conceptually so that Members under the ČSSD did not have to give their parliamentary proposal, which will still be negotiated in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, and we do not even know, in fact, whether it will be able to accept in any form by the end of the parliamentary term, so that it can be understood even in practice. I'm developing this place so we really have an idea of what we've been talking about all along. It's about the Social Enterprise Act. Our country, when I say this, says, "Oh, my God, let it be here!" But that's exactly what we're talking about. We here, on the one hand, have a law that really has some serious restrictions for somebody. We say that it is completely, completely normal to abide by the laws of this country and behave according to certain rules, although we know that a lot of people have mental or psychiatric problems, they need regular social and other escorts. On the other hand, it doesn't change the fact that we're just supposed to follow some laws here, and whether we like it or not, a group of residents who need to accompany it, whatever form it is, is constantly expanding for us, but the system doesn't know how to do that - and perhaps there should be an effect and work and suggestions from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. There are more or less populist proposals, non-conceptionary, rather only partial ones all over the four years, but such a basis within some general concept, whether we are talking about the medical assessment service that we discussed on the committee yesterday and which is really from the workshop or translated by Members across the political spectrum, these are things that simply do not fit in the social sphere as they should, and that is what happens to the problems that we have here. [[16.40 hours]] And why am I saying this here? There are a lot of things that we have forgotten that we do not want to see, but we just need to realize that although we are going to accept here - or how it passes in the Chamber of Deputies or does not pass, but when I speak in general, we know that the effort is to declare this law, there is a great deal of work done on it - so when we take this form here, of course it doesn't end here, because we really need the other things here. It is then for the work of the future Chamber of Deputies. But on the other hand, I think that the way I live among these people, I communicate every day, I walk around the city, I go everywhere people actually move, so I think that these two proposals, whether it's the House press 290 or 652, just deserve citizens because it's one of the tools to deal with the situation. Although some nonprofit organizations really claim that this is not the case, that it will be a big problem, that it will have extreme impacts, so we still have people here, and unfortunately we have a large number of people in material distress or simply in social need who do not want to help, refuse help, do not want to get on that they should follow certain parameters, do not want to get in and agree that they should send their children to school, that they should have to follow certain principles. And while we all have to admit it, in the long run, we can't help people who just don't want it. I see a deputy from the Karlovy Vary Region, I see here from Moravian-Silesian, I see here from the Ústí Region. We could really tell you stories about this place that are incredible. I think I would really like to have the pirát' amendments prepared today - that we can go through the second reading in peace and, of course, talk about the amendments, not only on the Social Policy Committee, but also at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, but I believe that the piece of work that has worked on this will have its fruits and that it will go into that field because it is really necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u32	Thank you. We will now continue the general debate. There are factual points. As the first Mrs Válková, Mr Novák will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u33	Thank you. I will not speak for long, fortunately I have only a factual remark from Aš to Košice, as it was previously said, because my previous speaker took it this way, she had sufficient unlimited time limit for it. I would just like to point out that, of course, I know the issue very well and, two years after I am an agent, I have known the places that Mrs Aulická spoke of directly or indirectly. I was in Khanov, in Genoa, I know various locations socially excluded outside the Ústí Region, I know what we're talking about, I know people who have mental disorders and for whom, as some previous speakers have rightly said here, the withdrawal of benefits can be an undeserved punishment. We will certainly follow what will be read today, what is the final form, or perhaps the final form of the proposal that will go to the third reading, and what to vote for and what not. That's why I was talking about the extremes. I feel like we're moving in two extremes. We want to deal with this, we certainly need to find tools that healthy ones - I mean, mentally, mentally - parents will motivate them to send children to schools in their own personal interest. I remember how surprised I was myself, how impressed it was when we introduced non-systemic measures, the punishment of driving bans on drivers who didn't pay maintenance - it works. It's working. So why wouldn't something more drastic like that work, but it has to be tuned. I have not studied the press so much in the amendment complex yet, but here I want to assure everyone that as an agent and as an MP, as someone who defends the interests of this group, I will do so and will certainly try to find the balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u34	Thank you. Now, with Mr Novák's factual remark, Mr Čižinský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u35	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly, because he won't really give it to me. I didn't mean to, I don't want to delay at all, I'd really like us to discuss the press, but only to Mr. Ferjenčík - please, seriously, taking a living - it's not true, it's not true. Study it over and over again. Please don't put a word in my mouth that the law is set or made up for one group of people, and that's not even for the inadaptable. In some ways, I, too, am unadaptable, even not considered to be offensive or rude, but in this case it is a law for all people. For everyone, please. It is really enough to prevent dose abuse. To my colleague Kolářík, through the President - Mr colleague, please, you are proposing, respectively, by amending Mrs Richterová's proposal, the introduction of bail in the context of a material emergency, but there is a need to realise - I do not know if you have checked the current situation - there is a methodology now that allows bail in the context of a material emergency, and I do not know whether it is necessary to impose it again or even more by law, whether it is better to leave it as it is today and according to my information it works. I am from the Zlín Region, we do not have such major problems with excluded localities and I do not really argue that the law is based on inadaptable or just on people living in excluded localities. Yes, of course, it will also intervene there, but it will hit all people, both positively and possibly negatively, but especially straight for everyone. That's the most important thing. And as for the nonprofit - nonprofit, please, out of the House for me, to support their field work, but no longer, please, aggressive outputs of the nonprofit sector in the House. We don't deserve it either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u36	Thank you. Now, Mr Čižinský, on a point of fact, then Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u37	I don't think there's any point in dealing with who's got so many cases, but when the city section has 45,000 people, there are some cases that are comparable. Of course, the rate is incomparable with the Ústí Region, yet in the map of excluded localities we managed to make two excluded localities disappear. We put these people somewhere else, and it's working. The point is, we're going the other way around. If we're talking about drug abuse, I'm really asking someone to explain to me when a material emergency is somehow defined and needs to be explained to me when we take the money away from someone, how it's going to help them. We're going the other way around. First of all, there must be the possibility of building other options for those people, apartments where they may need to move if they try to live in some apartments that are inadequate. That's basic, and then something like that could come up. But the thought of someone making a misdemeanor, we take his money, and he helps, we all know that it doesn't work. Unfortunately, I feel really pure populism, pure populism, in the sense that we're gonna give some kind of impression that we're being strict with someone, but we're just really gonna hurt the situation, but someone else is gonna pay for it. In 10, 15, 20 years, when these people are older, well, we'll all just pay it back, all the taxpayers again, and the fact that it's gonna be worse than before the adoption of the law, it's gonna get worse after the adoption, I'm afraid it's a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u38	Thank you. Now, Mr Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u39	Thank you for the floor. I belong to those who do not support this law. I believe that if it is accepted, it will do more harm than good in practice. However, I perceive the distribution of forces in the House, and I think that most Members and Members have an opinion on how they will vote, so I didn't want to get involved in this discussion, because it doesn't seem that meaningful to me, but only my colleague Aulická Jírovcová provoked me because she said that she was trying to describe the situation here so that we would know it, and now she was describing how children do not go to school and how children attack teachers and so on. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to argue this way to add some numbers to it so that we really know how big the problem you're trying to describe is because of what you said - forgive me - at least I got the impression that in excluded localities, all parents felt that they didn't belong in school, and so it certainly isn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u40	Thank you, and these were all factual remarks at the moment, so I received a report from Mr Kolářík's post. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u41	Thank you, I am very brief because I realize that it is time, but I have been mentioned here several times, or even the pirát, that they are not saying something that is entirely based on the truth. I'm saying it can happen for sure. I have some notes for your analysis. I'd just like to ask, even then, off the record, one of the submitters, if he could tell me if that was true or not. Most of the landlords, not tenants or tenants, are responsible for poor quality apartments. At the same time, the landlord will not be able to withdraw the benefit. The family gets rid of, and they find themselves without housing support and livelihood for six months, even if they manage to find other housing during that time, more appropriate, because the whole household will not fall within the circle of persons in material distress. In case of a housing allowance, the family will lose support from the following quarter, i.e. for three or more months until they find something else. In both cases, they are low-income people and we do not have a social housing law, so the chances of finding another housing are small. There is an increase in the number of people in the residential hotels and an even greater overload of asylum houses. I wonder if that's true or not. And then briefly to the map. I didn't say it wasn't in our order anymore, I said it wasn't used often and systemically. This is the direction the amendment is heading to make it clear and it was quite clear that it could be used and in what cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u42	Thank you. At this point, I have no applications for a general debate. I know that Mrs Richterová has been applied for, but she is still not present because she is preparing amendments. So if no one else is reporting, at this point, I am ending the general debate. Do I ask the appellant or rapporteur if they are interested in the final words after the general debate? It's not like that. According to my remarks, the proposal to return the bill did not fall to the guarantee committee at this time, so I am initiating a detailed debate. I would remind you that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified and that Mr Novák is the first to be entered in the detailed debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u43	Thank you for the floor. I have presented to you a comprehensive amendment, which can be found in the system under number 8404. As far as I am concerned, I am applying for the accompanying resolution, which I have also read to you here in the general debate and, of course, I will pass on in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u44	Thank you. It is now registered from previous discussions by Mrs Richterová, but she is not present, so the application is moving to the end, and I beg Mrs Fialová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u45	Hello, I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I submit together with Eva Matyášová and Pavla Golasowská under number 7381, which I presented in detail at discussion 10. 2nd of this year. Just to remind you, this is the maximum time when it must be decided to grant emergency immediate assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u46	Thank you and Mr Holomčík is now registered, but he has announced a break. It's not like that at the moment, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u47	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the impossible has become a reality and we have done so without a break, so I am going to sign up for some 40 amendments to Mrs Richterová. I hereby declare the amendments made as House documents number 6529, 7410, 7411, 7412, 7413, 7414, 7415, 7416, 7417, 7846, 7848, 7849, 7850, 7851, 7852, 7854, 7856, 7859, 8116, 8129, 8130, 8131, 8132, 8326, 8369, 8370, 8371, 8372, 8373, 8374, 8406, 8407, 8408, 8409, 8410, 8411, 8412, 8413, 8414, 8416. All the proposals are justified in the body of the text, and I only have for the President - Mrs Richterová is excused. Well, that's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u48	Yes, that is so, and now, therefore, Mrs Valachová is signed up in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u49	Thank you, Mr President. I am following my speech in the general debate and, in a detailed debate, I am merely signing up for Amendments 6735 and 6736. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-003-003.u50	Thank you, and now for the second time, Mrs Richterová, who, of course, is excused, so she is not present, the application is forfeit. Thank you, and if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate at this time, I am ending the debate in detail. I'll ask again if there's any interest in final words? I don't see that kind of interest. I believe that at this point, there have been no proposals that we should be voting on, so I am ending second reading of this press and closing the third point. Let's move on to the program, which is point 4. That's what it is.
