ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, before we begin the 120th meeting, I would like to remind you that after the agreement which took place at one hour, the 119th suspended meeting will continue. I am now initiating the 120th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and to record your participation, I am denouncing you. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called the meeting as President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 53 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, 29 September of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. [[Gong.]] I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Petr Dolínek, if there is no objection. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone, the sněmovna is a quorum. I therefore initiate the vote. Who is for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, 92 Members registered, for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 120th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. Before the beginning of the meeting, in this section... I have two priority rights, it's the Prime Minister and the Secretary of Finance... three, I'm sorry, as the third Vice-President of Tomio Okamura, and now the Secretary of State is reporting, so in that order. First Prime Minister, Mrs... Madam Secretary, these applications are getting older, all the others. Mr Grospič cancels his apology, he is present. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u2	So good day, honourable Members. I come forward here in the House with my proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians at the current level for the next five years, up to 2026. If we hadn't, salaries would have gone up jumping since January, and that would have been really scandalous in today's situation. We should set an example. I send my own salary to singles, and I'd have to be ashamed of raising our salaries when we live off taxpayers' money. Today, Members and Senators are entitled to a basic salary of CZK 90,800 per month, plus cash flat-rate compensation of CZK 47,200 to CZK 64,000 per month for transport, representation and more. These are the replacements that Sobotka's prime minister saved up for his apartment. So if we average it, it's going to be some 146,000 crowns a month gross. If we don't freeze the salaries, they would jump by more than 6.1 percent, and from next year onwards, a rank MP or Senator 96 300 CZK per month would take money and all legislators would increase from CZK 50 000 to CZK 67 800 per month. On average, Members and Senators would take CZK 155,000 a month. But only a minority receives basic salary. Most politicians have a function and, of course, functions mean extras, which is why they are so popular. The chairman of the committee today has a salary of CZK 127,800 a month without flat-rate compensation, and he would take CZK 135,600 a month after thawing. Vice-President of the House and Senate receives 173 200 crowns each month and will have 183 700 crowns a month after thawing. Of course, it's not like taking CZK 48 million in subsidies for your nonprofit dealing with women's rights in Burma, but it's still very decent money. And if you're just an MP, but you're also a mayor, and you're stockpiling your posts, there's no problem getting a quarter of a million closer - I'm sure my colleagues at STAN will confirm that. In addition to salaries and financial compensation, we must not forget the advantages of a service car for officials, phones and computers, expert, assistants, offices that are in the order of tens of thousands a month, but also 2.5 times higher foreign diets than ordinary employees. Perhaps, in addition to teachers, Members and Senators are the only ones who have two months of vacation in the summer. And unlike the members of the government, Members and Senators are not covered by the conflict of interest law, so they can continue to do business in peace while voting on their subject of business. When I submitted my proposal, the expected reactions came: why I didn't remember before, that it wouldn't pull out the budget and that it was populism. I remembered the salary freeze in June this year, but then my proposal failed, because I proposed freezing salaries for all constitutional officials, including judges and prosecutors, which was a mistake. But I care about politicians' salaries, and I'm sure we all do. I don't even agree with the objection that it doesn't rip out the state register. It is estimated that by freezing the salaries of politicians, the state bill would have brought CZK 727 million in five years, according to estimates by the Ministry of Finance, and every orderly farmer knows that there is a difference of CZK 727 million or no CZK 727 million. Moreover, when I read the talks of opposition politicians, they all demand greater savings. So where better to start than yourself? And as far as the accusations of populism are concerned, perhaps because I know the closer the term of the election, the greater the willingness of politicians to take some unpopular steps for them. In any case, I can see, or see, whether it is true that the traditional parties have concluded an agreement that, when the elections are over, ODS, STAN, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL will reject the Senate proposal and let all politicians' salaries rise by 6.1 percent from next year. Honestly, I'm not here to defend the interests of politicians and party secretariats, but the interests of people, pensioners, working families with children and singles, employees and businessmen, that is, the interests of those whom opposition politicians have always ignored. They promised them mountains of mines before the election because they needed their vote, but once the election was over, they forgot their vows because they were all about the newsrooms and the troughs. That does not apply to the YES movement. Unlike many of you, I went into politics not in order to get rich - but you must have noticed from the press - but in order to improve the lives of all our citizens. And now my concern is to protect the standard of living that we have won from the five-police PiratoSTAN and SPOLU. I have no problem admitting I don't know how to talk. I consider buying empty words to be a waste of time, and I lacked the patience to listen to all that talk. Although I have to say, that talking is kind of art. Only professional politicians can talk for hours without saying anything. It is a good thing that politicians' salary does not depend on the number of words spoken, because the Czech Republic would probably have to declare state bankruptcy. For me, actions and results have always been decisive. And that's how I acted in my personal life as an entrepreneur, as a minister and as Prime Minister. [[14.10 hours]] I know it will be a huge surprise for many of you, but I have fulfilled the absolute majority of our promises, the promises of the YES movement, or the treaty that I have symbolically concluded. From the contract I made in October 2017, we fulfilled 20 out of 22 points. My government, led by the ANO movement, has pushed through the vast majority of the commitments made by the programme statement, despite sometimes very heated disputes. I would also like to thank the ČSSD as a coalition partner and also some opposition colleagues who were able to look at the world blindly, not only through anti-Babiš glasses. Even if it doesn't look like partisan squirrels, there are reasonable people on each side. There are clear numbers in politics and the economy. And even if you can lie without a spell, like often President Fiala and his allies about inflation, debt in the economy, you will not move with numbers and their comparison offers a very plastic picture of our economy. We can start retirement. In 2009 after Topolánkův's government resulting from political corruption symbolized by defectors, his casino Dalík, King of Gambling Kalousek, Minister of Miracle Riching Řebíček, Minister of Health Charges Julínek or Promopro Vondraou, the seniors received an average pension of CZK 10,028 a month. And a year later, when the ODS and the TOP 09 came to power with Kalouskův's bill, she rewarded her grandmother and her grandfather by increasing their pension by zero in 2010. Zero zero crowns, zero zero nothing. And then she stepped up and added 45 crowns to the seniors. The seniors still remember very well how you defended it at the time by being able to cope with little. By the end of 2013, the average pension was CZK 10,913 a month. In four years, ODS and TOP 09 were able to give our seniors less than a thousand. When I became Prime Minister in December 2017, the average pension was CZK 11 745. This March the average pension was CZK 15 351 and at the end of this year the Ministry of Finance estimates that it will be CZK 15 445. Thus, we fulfilled our promise that the average pension will be at least 15,000 in 2021. We added a thousand more to people over the age of 85, each senior received an extraordinary contribution of CZK 5,000 in December 2020 and increased their contribution to medicines. On average, my government raised pensions by almost CZK 1,000 each year. For the year 2022, the seniors will receive an extra 805 crowns on average, and in 2023, women will primarily raise their pension by 500 crowns for the care of each raised child. Next year, the average pension will be CZK 16,280 a month. We want to prepare seniors for possible belt tightening, expensive drugs, and introducing health fees with which ODS, TOP 09 and STAN will certainly come if they get into government. After all, the five-wheel drive for a better tomorrow has already announced that it will immediately take away their 75% discount on trains and buses that I have personally passed. Mrs Pekarová of TOP 09 calls raising pensions a bribe, as does Mr Rakušan of STAN. Mr. Fiala again says it's irresponsible populism. Thus, the raising of pensions, seniors, is viewed by opposition representatives. So how are they gonna treat you if they get to power? While they think of you, my dear seniors, that you are corrupters because you are being bribed, I consider raising pensions to be an equalisation of historical injustices committed by politicians from ODS, TOP 09 and STAN. And if YES affects the next government, I promise that in 2025 the average pension will be 20,000 a month. Coincidentally, the electoral number of the ANO movement is also 20, so that's symbolic. And now for the salaries. Now we will remember: now the basic salary of an ordinary Member or a senator with flat-rate cash compensation is about 146,000. If there's no freezing, it'll be CZK 155,000 a month. Let us now put aside other cash substitutes for offices, accommodation, administration, analysis and so on, but - that can climb to tens of thousands a month - but how citizens are doing. Let's start with the average wage. In 2009 she was 23 488 crowns a month after Topolánek and Kalousek. In 2013 she was 25 128 crowns a month after Nečas and Kalousek. And in 2021 after Schillerová and Babiš 38 275 crowns a month. The minimum wage was only CZK 8,500 in August 2013, with the ODS, TOP 09 and STAN leading right-wing governments, with an increase of almost 80 percent this year. By the way, according to recent reports, the Czech Republic is among the five countries with the largest increase in hourly minimum wages. Now let's compare politics with real professions. Teachers, former blood group of Chairman ODS Fiala. For his head of the Ministry of Education in 2012, the average salary of teachers was CZK 25 988, nine hundred more than the average wage. A year later he managed to raise the salary of teachers by 123 crowns to 26 111. The YES movement promised teachers that they would take 45 000 crowns a month on average this year. But they will take more, on average 46,000 crowns a month, and compared to the average wage it is 8,000 crowns more. So here we have a concrete example of how teachers appreciated ODS, TOP 09 and STAN and how we appreciate them. We returned to them after years of stagnant income in the profession of cantora prestige. You're gonna take that away from them, the cantors. And we can continue with other civil servants. By the way, those are the ones you want to fire, not just the teachers, but the police, the firemen, or the soldiers. Chairman TOP 09 Pekarová is planning a reduction diet for civil servants according to her words. He's talking about throwing 13 percent of the civil servants out, going to the offices of the "night of the long knives" after Topolánkovsk, and with the sorority of his own enthusiasm, he's going to look for an internal enemy in the name of pecarism-phialism. By the way, as far as your criticism is concerned that too many civil servants have increased since 2013, those you hated officials are at least: 73 percent of them were employees in regional education, 12 percent were members of the security forces and 5 percent were professional soldiers. After the government of ODS, TOP 09 and STAN in 2013, the average salary of police officers was 32 043 CZK, this year it is 50 530. The average salary of firefighters was CZK 31,802 and today it is CZK 51,100. The average salary of non-teaching workers was 15 180 and today is 26,050 crowns. Nurses on right-wing cuts had CZK 28 388 and today they receive an average of CZK 58 200, which is a difference of 205 percent. And by the way, now we've come to an agreement to raise nurses' salaries by 7 percent, even paramedics. Nursers and other people in social services for traditional parties took 16 827 crowns and today they take an average of 35 097 crowns, which is even a difference of 208 percent. And that's the kind of people you're gonna be saving money on, even if you're gonna be flaming denying it right now before the election. You've always taken them short, you've always considered them worse than you, and there's no reason to assume that you'll ever change. We behaved the other way around. We didn't just raise people's salaries directly, we also cut people's taxes. During my reign, it is almost 500 billion crowns. We canceled the mega fraud of the ODS and the TOP 09 called supergross wages, making all employees 7 percent higher net income from the beginning of this year. We have defended the tradesmen's income tax rate of 15 percent. [[14.20 hours]] ODS and TOP 09 are now talking about two VAT rates and have already admitted that some items can be increased. So while we have transferred a lot of things to a reduced 10% VAT rate - drugs, child food, books, draft beer, soft drinks, heat supplies, water and sewerage, mass transportation, catering services, hairdressers, repairers and home care - the TOP 09 is already shaking as people get their lives up again. And I'm sure the ODS will also come up with some unscathed idea of what else to tax. When she was with the government last time, she introduced a property acquisition tax that we had to cancel after them. Pirates, in turn, talk about environmental taxes that make energy even more expensive or mineral taxation. All the buildings from the flats starting on the freeway are going to get expensive again. Today it is a very constructive solution, both for expensive building materials. We're gonna cost them so much that no one can afford them, and that's gonna save everyone. But we don't want it, we go the other way, we want VAT on construction to be cheaper. We were able to increase salaries and pensions and reduce taxes not only because of the systematic fight against tax evasion that traditional parties had never been able to do, but mainly because of the growth of our economy. After all, in per capita GDP, we have already surpassed Portugal, Spain or Italy. As far as living standards are concerned, we are at the top of the former Soviet bloc. Before Covid came, we were able to reduce the state debt that the right-wing opposition is now trying to scare people off. Dear spectators, fellow citizens, please, there is no state bankruptcy, as opposition pseudo-economists are trying to tell you. He'll be on pensions, he'll be on salaries, he'll be on the functioning of the state, unless, of course, he's a five-wheeler. Despite the pandemic, we remain the sixth least indebted country throughout the European Union. In 2013, the debt to GDP was 44,4% after years of public money-ploughing by traditional political parties. We and the ANO movement managed to bring the debt down even to 29 percent in 2019. Now, after that horrible pandemic, which the opposition systematically and cynically exploits, regardless of the health and lives of people in its nihilistic campaign, to date, the public debt will be 43.5 percent as of 31 December of this year, which is still less and less than the pitiful state in which the public finances of the ODS, TOP 09 and STAN have left us. We have a lower debt than all our neighbors. Yes, we have a lower debt than Poland, Slovakia, but even Austria and Germany. Austria has a debt to GDP of 84 %, Germany 71 % and such France 117 %. The average across the European Union is 91 per cent and 98 per cent in the euro area. So what kind of state crash are we talking about here? With regard to the rate of debt, which the opposition often fences, it was a short-term spike, because in March of this year we subscribed to the entire debt for this year, so that we could save on interest as good farmers. As of September 30, our debt fell by CZK 148 billion compared to July. With regard to the deficit of some 770 billion from 2020 and 2021, which we did not cause, but covid, some 580 billion CZK in September 2021 went to anti-covoid measures, i.e. for various tax breaks, direct aid to entrepreneurs and businessmen, contribution to pensioners, infirmary, compensation to health workers. That's why the deficit. Even Germany or Sweden, regularly managing surplus budgets, ended up deep in red due to the pandemic. We are the billions from which the deficit arose, invested in our people and Czech companies. If you were in power, respected opposition, you wouldn't give people a dime and, on the contrary, raise their taxes. That's what happened in the past. That so-called debt of ours did not come out as a traditional party. That debt doesn't include bailouts for your billion-dollar robberies and tunnels. No Promopro, no Opencard, no IZIP, no ROP Northwest, no systematically tunneled health care. Those are not some subserviently approved church restitutions, which you overcharged by 54 billion and had approved at half-one a night by the vote of one MP, who then happened to end up in prison. And that our government has gone the right way, the latest data from the Czech Statistical Office shows that the Czech economy has risen by 8.1% in the second quarter compared to the same period last year, and economic activity has now gone from 95 percent to where it was before Covido. The UK Financial Times even wrote 14 days ago that the prosperity of the Czech Republic is unprecedented and that our country is the premier of Eastern Europe in economic growth. Despite all anti-pandemic measures, global rating agencies confirm a stable rating, which we have even improved three times since 2013. According to our opposition and their economic experts, we are at risk of state bankruptcy, which, of course, is nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to talk about debt and bankruptcy, it should be recalled that the traditional parties between 2007 and 13 have historically indebted the economy, the crisis has not been a crisis, and the consequences have always been borne by citizens. Between 2009 and 2013 ODS, STAN and TOP 09 led by Kalousek owe our country an average of 135 billion each year. They have blocked the whole economy, reduced people's salaries, cut pensions, raised taxes, and plunged the economy into recession. And I'm begging you for a pandemic, some covid, no one's ever heard of it. If universities were to study how to owe the country, they could give the ODS and TOP 09 politicians titles and give the best finance ex-minister a professorship. Unlike you, traditional opposition politicians, we've tamed the debt once and we can do it twice after the covid. But we want to do this so that we keep people's salaries and pensions, don't raise their taxes and lower their standard of living. Gradually and calmly, we don't want any of Kalouskův's shock therapy. We should stop the planned savings by indebting to 50 per cent of GDP over three years, i.e. in 2024. So the debt is under control, the state's bankruptcy will certainly not take place. The economy is working, investment is working, salaries, pensions, and thus the standard of living is increasing. So what do we have left? Inflation. Of course, if everything fails, inflation is good for Babiš. So, ladies and gentlemen, yes, I suppose I'm responsible for inflation not only in the Czech Republic, but throughout the world. I'm responsible for expensive oil, expensive shipping containers, lack of car chips. It is my fault that the CNB jumped up interest rates and overpriced loans to all companies and people's mortgages. And, of course, I'll probably be responsible for the fact that, before Christmas, you'll be in vain for children's toys that will be in containers in China at that time, of course, it's Babiš's fault again. So seriously, please, for your information. Based on data from the Czech Statistical Office, inflation in the Czech Republic is currently 3.1 %, which is below the European Union average, where inflation is 3.2 percent. Our neighbours are certainly worse off than we are: Poland 5 %, Slovakia 3.3 %, Austria 3.2 %, Germany 4.1 %, which is the most in 30 years. The opposition haunts people with debt. Speaking of inflation, by the way, it was 6.3 percent in 2008. And who was in the government then? Well, Topolánek of the ODS. And what effect did he have on that? Well, none at all. Of course he didn't, it's the same as I don't have an influence on it. But what he had back then was 600,000 unemployed. And in our country, unemployment is a record low covid despite. Indeed, the core and problem of inflation is abroad. If, because of global demand, the prices of such iron rise by a third, it is difficult to do anything about it, as well as for natural gas prices and other commodities and other commodities. Inflation is simply imported to us. The whole world is not only catching up on production during the covide season, but also dealing with extreme demand after all. The basic economic rule, which even five-calice parties might know, says: The higher the demand, the higher the prices. But it's not Babiš's fault, it's the free market, and the free market is something the ODS has always swore on as the right hand side. But the good news is that this is a temporary situation and that economists say it will wear off. Our great advantage is the Czech koruna, which dampens inflation imported from abroad. If we get rid of the crown and accept the euro, as the TOP 09, Pirates or STAN wants, inflation is even higher. And it's not true that our citizens are responsible for higher prices, because they were reasonable, so they usually put the money into savings and didn't increase their consumption. [[14.30 hours]] You couldn't agree on a super-gross wage, and you're in opposition. So please, in that five-calice, finally clarify what you want, if you want the euro or don't want the euro, you should tell people, do you want to accept migrants voluntarily, or do you want to accept migrants voluntarily, do you want to raise taxes, or do you want to raise taxes? So the only thing that so far is that the vote for the ODS and the COO is a vote for the Pirates in the government, that's the only clear thing you're declaring, a hundred-one, and the only goal is to get rid of Babiš. So if the ODS, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates and People's Party were to enter the government, this violet-green revolutionary front would cause our country and our children immeasurable damage that we may never get out of. They freeze pensions, cut wages, raise taxes, introduce the euro, strangle the economy, bring the country into recession, and start touching people's property. Not to mention privatizing what we have left, such as Budvar, Czech Post, Czech Forests, Czech Railways, ČEZ, Čepra, Mera, not to mention privatizing hospitals and introducing health fees. I am also not talking about introducing tuition fees, and I am not talking about the fact that, as Mr Bartoš has declared in the European Union, she has abolished the right of veto, handed over our sovereignty to Brussels and voluntarily accepted illegal migrants. The impact of the government will be felt on its own pocket by everyone, both old and young, single-parents and families with children, employees and businessmen, middle class and socially weaker, public employees and people in the private sector, pensioners and entrepreneurs, just all of them. Five-calice isn't about people or our country, except anti-Babish has no agenda. So everyone knows that I'm not a proficient rhetor as you hear it now, but the results speak for me, and the opposition has always promised before the elections something and after the election has forgotten the promises, and we have fulfilled our promises, the YES movement. I think we have done our utmost to increase our citizens' standard of living. And believe me, our country will need this fight until the body is torn apart. So on the one hand, we have the ANO movement, and on the other hand, we have the five coalitions of SPOLU and PiratoSTAN. That'll be a crucial choice in three days. That is what people will decide if they want to continue their investment in our citizens and the Czech Republic, as the YES movement has done for the last four years, or choose to tighten belts, raise taxes and lower living standards. Yes, that's the change they're talking about. Their change plan is what? It is a return to the past that we all remember well because they were with the government until 2013, and the Pirátostan, even worse, surrenders our sovereignty to Brussels, destroys our culture and steals our country's future. And a vote for SPOLU means a vote for Pirátostan. So, dear fellow citizens, these elections have been the most important since the establishment of a separate Czech Republic and will decide on the future of our country. The only program of five-calice, SPOLU and PirátoSTAN is to remove Babiš from politics. There's no other program. I understand that a lot of people don't like me after this permanent media massage, but if you care about the future of our children and the future of our country, which is the best place to live in the European Union, and at our level and our culture, I think that your choice is clear, it is the Yes movement, and I promise you that I will fight for you every day until the body is torn apart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I'll read two apologies. Mr Benda apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes for today's work reasons. I have another priority right here - Minister Schillerová, Vice-President Okamura will prepare, then Minister Maláčová. Those are all the priority rights I have so far. [[Response to question off microphone:]] Yes, the Secretary of Finance has the first word. The replacement card number 24 shall be voted by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. The Prime Minister apologizes for the rest of today's day for working reasons. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me explain from the position of Vice Prime Minister to the economy why I consider the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on salaries and other requirements relating to the performance of the post of State officials, the promoter of which is the Member and, at the same time, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, to be absolutely necessary, justified and correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u5	I'll ask everyone present for peace, or maybe transfer your debates to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under normal circumstances, there would be no reason to deviate from a steady and good practice according to which the salaries of public officials depend on a specified slot machine. It is a practice that I personally consider to be right, as it is, of course, below the level for most people, to open up the subject of their own salaries again and again, to discuss them and, last but not least, to vote. But we are in an extraordinary situation where our economy is still waking up from a difficult period, when a number of sectors had to be closed in the fight against pandemics, many entrepreneurs remained completely without sales. Demand for goods and services has fallen or been dramatically paralyzed by the lockdown, and this has, of course, been reflected in wages and wages throughout our economy. In the face of economic uncertainties, new and higher interest rates, firms cannot afford to increase their employees' payouts as usual in the past. Indeed, this is why most of you agreed to our proposal to abolish the supergross wage and to reduce the tax burden on labour by 7 percent. Together with an increase in the discount on the taxpayer by a total of CZK 6,000, 3,000 this year, 3,000 next year, the net wage will increase by around 9 percent between 2020 and 2022 even without anything else. It's just a reminder. The effects of the abolition, the reduction in labour taxation, of course, also apply to the legislator. In a situation where salaries in the public sector will increase by CZK 1,400, it is simply unacceptable for politicians' salary base to increase by 6.1 percent, as would happen without this amendment from 1 January. I am convinced that you will agree with this proposal of mine. I am not saying that the freezing of the salaries of constitutional officials by 2026 represents a substantial financial savings in terms of the state budget, because we are talking comprehensively about CZK 727 million. But I also stand by the extraordinary psychological and symbolic dimension of this step, or rather, the extraordinary symbolic dimension of not taking this step. They say if a person is the only one who can do something good, then he just has to do it. That is, if you are the only one who can stop the unruly increase in the salaries of Members, Ministers or even Senators from 1 January, it is you, and it is today that it is appropriate to do so. [[14.40 hours]] There are a lot of complicated topics that can be twisted, re-re-radiized in politics, blamed on political competitors. Today's vote, however, does not rank among them. On the contrary, it will be one of the most readable votes: vote in favour, vote against, abstain. Every voter makes a very simple picture, and that's good. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for the clear support of Mr Andrej Babiš's government proposal to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials as an expression of solidarity and belonging to the rest of the salary and salary sphere in the country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. We have two more priority rights ahead of us, and then we'll approve the program. So Vice-President Okamura, then Secretary Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD is promoting the freezing of politicians' salaries, and in this context I would like to remind you that this extraordinary meeting to freeze politicians' salaries is also convened by the SPD Members' votes. So this meeting is convened by the votes of members of the YES and the SPD, because we have long been promoting the freezing of the salaries of politicians and the same SPD proposal has already been voted on in the House, voted on two years ago, and then none of the other parliamentary parties supported our proposal. On the contrary, the vote of all Members, other than the SPD, went through a proposal to increase the salaries of politicians by around 10 per cent. For the SPD, we consistently promote the freezing of the salaries of politicians that are so high that it is shameful to continue to increase. It's shameful for them to get taller! It is unacceptable for politicians to set their own salaries. So we are pleased that, thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, this extraordinary meeting is being convened, and I hope, therefore, that the other parliamentary parties here in The House will support this proposal to freeze the salaries of politicians. I would also like to comment on what Prime Minister Andrej Babiš said here. I would just add that it would be nice to say that raising pensions is always here thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, because the ANO movement has 78 Members, it does not have a majority here, so there is always a need for other votes, other parties to increase pensions. So we are proud to say that every year, every year, when there is a vote on raising pensions, SPD members always vote for raising pensions, and thanks to our votes, pensions are always increasing here every year, and our votes will always increase, whether they are old-age pensions, disability pensions, orphans' pensions or widow's pensions. But what needs to be recalled at the same time is the vote that took place here in July on raising pensions from 1. 1. 2022, because YES to the votes of YES and SPD Members and perhaps some others, I do not remember that, so there has been an increase in pensions as every year, but there are four parties who voted in July against increasing pensions since 1. 1. 2022. And this is really unbelievable! Against increasing pensions from 1. 1. 2022 here voted ODS, Members of ODS, STAN, these are the Mayors and the Independents, the Pirates and the TOP 09. This means that these four parties voted here in July against raising pensions from 1. 1. 2022. So it is quite clear here, and now I think it is an appropriate opportunity to recall this vote, because there are elections on Friday and Saturday, so it is quite clear what awaits citizens, seniors or grandmothers and grandfathers of younger citizens, if they are with the government of the SPOLU coalition and Pirates and STAN coalition. They'll get an increase of zero. They will get zero because, for this reason, the members of the Pirates, TOP 09, ODS and STAN voted - they refused to valorize pensions. So this needs to be said, and it needs to be recalled in the context of the Prime Minister's talk of raising pensions. Of course, even the SPD, if it were part of the government after the elections, will maintain a discount on transport for seniors and students. I was really unpleasantly surprised here by the debate of some opposition parties, except, of course, the SPD, outside of the SPD, who are developing a debate here that they want to cancel traffic discounts. On the contrary, the SPD can assure citizens that we will maintain a discount on transport for seniors and students, because the aim of the SPD is to promote our patriotic program for decent citizens as far as possible. We all have the opportunity now to see a dirty election campaign full of lies and misinformation. All candidates promise, modify, move, and none of them wants to solve the core problem. This is the fact that there is not a large group of people working with us deliberately long-term, who allow themselves to be fed and parasitic on the system, and that globalists are trying to steal our country. Unadaptable, the so-called inadaptables are fully dependent on generous social benefits and nothing forces them to start working. All of us then finance this comfortable ride with our taxes in quotation marks, and what's more, they complain! And the pirát even support them because they have long-term conspiracy in the House so that an amendment to the SPD bill could not be approved, which would reduce the abuse of social benefits to inadaptable, or abuse of social benefits. This bill from the SPD pen came here after two years this spring to the final third reading. A few minutes were missing from the fact that we could have ended the abuse of unadaptable doses. We would save half a billion crowns that we could move to decent people, and for half a year it has been building and blocking the sibling duo in the ranks of the Pirates, Mrs Richterová, and Mr Ferjenčík. They and, plus, there was a member of the ČSSD and a member of the People's Party of Čižinský, who has already blocked the law definitively here, so the abuse of benefits that are unadaptable at the expense of decent citizens continues. The Pirates, the pirát and the STAN coalition blocked this place when I say it, and you're always applying to your coalition, and the Party of the SPOLU coalition, the People's Party, and the ČSSD MP was blocking it. So these parties support the inadaptable, and they're gonna make decent people pay for the inadaptable. I am running as a leader in the Moravian-Silesian Region and there we have problems with it, with the inadaptable ones, but also in the Ústí Region, in the Karlovy Vary Region, in many other places, in Kladno and everywhere possible. I've got a lot of people telling me they can't sleep at night, they're coming back from work, but the pirát, the People's Party and the ČSSD MP have blocked this place. That is why, of course, I hope that the pirát will not be with the government, I hope that there will not be a coalition of the COO, even if it was just one of those sides, the smaller one of the three-wheelers that blocked this place, and I hope that the SPD will be so strong in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can push it through with decent Members of other parties here. And I hope the pirát don't block this place anymore. I hope there's so few of them that they won't block decent people here. And I'm saying that until we finally get the inadaptable people to work, our state will still have a problem with money. And he can move, edit, and whatever he wants, but nothing will be solved. The SPD movement offers this, but also other solutions in its electoral program. We want a referendum, including a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, the preservation of the Czech koruna, not the euro, balanced state budgets, quality Czech food at reasonable prices, support for families and decent people, decent pensions for decent people, right to self-defense, rejection of the European Union's green madness, cheap energy and energy self-sufficiency, support for Czech businessmen and Czech companies. [[14.50 hours]] The SPD also enforces anti-corruption laws with a clear solution, zero tolerance for illegal migration and Islamisation, nationalisation of executors and the end of execution mafias, end of funding political nonprofits - that is what the pirát are so fond of supporting. We also promote the abolition of the pandemic law, the protection of freedom of speech, the refusal of mandatory covid vaccination and the recognition of antibodies as evidence of infectivity. We want to return to normal life. We want children to go to schools without restrictions or conditions. That's in a nutshell what we're promoting, and most importantly, a decent person has to come first. We want to increase support for working families with children. We want to reduce the tax burden on businessmen, small Czech companies. It is also simply unbelievable that public contracts are received by companies that do not tax later in the Czech Republic, making profits. The SPD prepares the law for public contracts, public contracts, only firms, only companies that tax in the Czech Republic. All this needs to be done. With regard to the promotion of businessmen and smaller entrepreneurs: we have been promoting here for a long time and we will continue to press it again so that VAT is paid only on the invoice actually paid. This is an extremely important support measure for businessmen and smaller companies. We simply want VAT to be paid only on invoices that are already paid. In short, for us, the Czech Republic and a decent and working citizen are in the first place. Let's not have our country stolen! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u9	Well, thank you. With priority rights, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam, honourable Members, do you know the difference between social democracy and the ANO movement? The difference is essential, because social democracy proposes freezing politicians' salaries in time and incessantly, and the ANO movement only does so before the elections. That's the big difference. When I wanted to freeze politicians to 1. 1. next year to deal in May... freeze the salaries of politicians to 1. 1. dealt with in May, so the Prime Minister did not put the government proposal on the agenda. [[Laughing in the hall]] And now, before the election, we're looking at a 90-year-old hoping or hoping that two deputies will block it, so it's being discussed at the last minute a few days before the election. What a coincidence! When I suggested that this be dealt with on time in May, it didn't work out, and now a few days before the election, it's burning so much. But I think the nature of the problem is somewhere else. I think that the peak of hypocrisy is showing a freeze of politicians' salaries in another political party, especially in the right spectrum, to the right of us, because when we wanted to add three hundred to the elderly, you were opposed when we proposed as social democracy to increase the minimum wage to 18,000, so you were opposed when we suggested that the salaries of civil servants would rise to 3,000, police officers, firefighters, nurses, caregivers, but also to the officials at the employment office or the Czech Social Security Administration, because these people had the lowest wages in the state sector and because the pandemics were working in the first line, so you were against it. But if your salaries are to increase by at least 5,500, I hear arguments: for it is only 650 million, the state budget will not save, some 650 million, it will not rip us out. At a time of extreme debt, the freezing of the salaries of politicians, ladies and gentlemen, a clear signal from those who mean it with the state register and also with the salaries and wages of others seriously, so it is a symbol and it is a clear example of us realizing the economic situation in which we are in. That is why social democracy supports this bill, although it goes at the last minute, clearly, before the elections, even if it were our way, we already approved it in the summer and it didn't have to be a pre-election circus. So once again, please support this bill. Then I will also ask the senators, because it is a clear signal from the state that we are saving every crown and that we are setting an example as politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. With priority, Vice-President Okamura wishes to speak. Before he gets to the microphone, I'll read two apologies. Mr Martin Kupka apologizes from today's day between 14 and 17 o'clock for reasons of work, and Mr Václav Klaus apologizes today from 18 o'clock to the end for personal reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u12	Well, ladies and gentlemen, what Minister Maláčová is doing here, she says the ČSSD supports the freezing of politicians' salaries... After all, I remember exactly when the SPD proposal was voted on to freeze politicians' salaries two years ago, so the ČSSD MP did not support it. I remember well that the only MP club that supported this was ourselves, the SPD, our own proposal. No one else here supported that. Now I don't know what Secretary Maláčová's talking about. It's the CSSD again... Those are lies about lies, I don't believe it. I didn't... As you know, I have a pretty good record of the vote here, I have almost 90 percent participation in the House, Mrs Maláčová is not even a Member, so I would like the ČSSD to stop making up stories here. When they were to vote to freeze politicians' salaries - we proposed it for the entire term - the ČSSD MP did not vote for it, so that is the reality. Well, now that they've had the raises and it's the end of the term, he's talking again. So the reality is, if you could support it, you didn't support it, and now, of course, okay, now we have two days before the election, three days before the election, that you're like a verbal addition, but it's still true that this meeting is called by the votes of members of the YES and the SPD, and that's just a fact, and there's nothing you can do about it. But you have to tell the truth, because when it was voted, you didn't vote for it. That's right, and you can make a thousand excuses here, the one you're showing is true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u13	děkovat you, and Vice-President Valachová has priority rights for the CSSD club. Please, you have the floor. Otherwise, I remind you, we haven't approved the program yet. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u14	Yes, thank you, Mr President. This will really just be a quick reaction. President Tomio Okamura had a lot to do before the elections, so he forgot that the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club a year ago, through a proposal from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, once again proposed freezing politicians' salaries in time. I quote politicians, they like to forget that it is not just the MPs and senators, but also the ministers, the Prime Minister, the President and so on. And he also forgot that, of course, we supported the freezing last year, and it was a proposal that we supported and that was then processed by the Pirates. So I take it it's jealousy that we just have to support the SPD proposal next time. However, we would like to be like social democrats, that the House would vote directly on our original proposals and we stopped blocking it every year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura wishes to respond with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u16	Well, the proposal of the Pirates and the ANO movement wasn't frozen two years ago, the proposal that went through here was a salary increase of about 10 percent, and if it hadn't been accepted, the politicians' salaries would have increased even more. And it was in this vote that you supported, so not freezing, but that was an increase of about 10 percent of the proposal, the compromise proposal of the Pirates and the movement YES, so let's put it to the truth for what you voted for. And it was in this vote that there was an amendment to the SPD, which proposed freezing for the entire parliamentary term, now until the end of this parliamentary term, and there was no vote there. So let's just say exactly what it was. And the fact that you guys were discussing and suggesting something a year ago, that's still the problem I'm saying here. We were the first to suggest it, almost three years ago, when it really made sense to freeze for the entire term, and then no one supported us. That means our proposal was the one that the MP here could, when I say it in quotes, take as much money as possible, because we wanted to freeze salaries from the start. And then you left us all alone. So let's say you could support it then, you didn't support it, you didn't support it, and it wasn't until later that you came up with a proposal, but you still failed because you couldn't get the support, so that's another problem for ČSSD, that Mrs. Maláčová always said something verbally, and then the deed ran away, because ČSSD isn't able to negotiate support anywhere. Well, that's the fact that if you're so weak, you can't get support. Look, we're even the opposition party, and we've agreed with the YES movement to sign the meeting together, and you're the government party. That means, these are things where we work constructively, but the problem is, maybe Mrs. Maláčová is just talking and it's just words and not actions. Well, that's the trouble.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u17	Vice-President Valachová - priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that President Okamura remembered that we voted as Social Democrats to freeze the salaries of politicians. I'm sure we're happy to vote together again to freeze the salaries of politicians. And I recommend, colleagues and colleagues, that we all vote quickly together, because there seems to be a great consensus. Or people get tired of our debates and freeze politicians, as has been said here several times in the proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. And at this point, I don't see anyone reporting for the debate. We will proceed to the vote on the agenda, and I am passing the proceedings on to my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-10-05-ps2017-120-01-000-000.u20	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Before we take a vote on the agenda, Mr Jan Bauer's apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies was received, for work reasons this afternoon. Now, then, to the proposal itself. It is therefore a government bill amending Act No. 236/1995 Coll., which is the only subject of this 120th meeting. We're going to vote on this show. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna sing. Hopefully, I'll get the attention of colleagues who are in the foyer. Please log in with your ID cards and we will decide on the agenda in the vote. I'll wait for the number of entries to settle. [[Members are still rushing into the hall.]] I see no one's coming. We will decide on the 120th meeting in the vote number 2 that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 2 out of 120 present for 119, against no one. The agenda has been approved. So we're going to follow this approved program. So I'm opening one point to the 120th meeting.
