ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 104th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I've signed you off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the spare card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set up a draft agenda for the 104th meeting on 13 May 2021. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. Mrs Valachová votes with replacement card number 11. At the outset, we would now proceed to the designation of the meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Mrs Jana Černochová and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting? I don't see anyone. I think there's enough of us. Initiating vote. Who is for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, we are 116, for 109, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Černochová and Markéta Pekarová Adamová, as verifiers of the 104th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members of the Government asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Jiří Bláha within 15 hours - family reasons, Dominik Feri - working reasons, Petr Fiala - family reasons, Věra Kovářová - personal reasons, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Martin Kupka from 15 to 17 hours - working reasons, Jiří Mihola - working reasons, Pavel Staněk - family reasons, Helena Válková - health reasons. Members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - foreign trip, Jakub Kulhánek - foreign trip, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. And I have a few additional apologies. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, on the 25th of the working day, apologizes to the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar for the whole working day. Members of Parliament, the Government has requested that the following press, which has been approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This is a government bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on Emergency Measures in the Epidemiology of COVID-19 and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, House Press 1225. In this context, by decision number 110, I extended the state of legislative emergency until 30 June 2021, and by decision number 111, I decided to discuss this government proposal in abridged negotiations and ordered the House press to discuss 1225 of the Health Committee. I have also set an unbreakable deadline for the submission of a resolution by 25 May 2021 within 13 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, since it is likely that there will be a proposal for the inclusion of this press in the proposal for a 104th meeting, it is necessary in a state of legislative emergency before the discussion of the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency requires us to comply with Paragraph 99 (1) of the Treaty. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I'm gonna ask you all to calm down. [[It's ringing with a bell.]] Replacement card number 15 - Mr Radim Fiala. I'm opening the debate to an emergency. If no one's in the debate... Sorry, it's a legislative emergency, if I said emergency. So if no one's... reporting? Mr. Benda. I would really ask you to settle down in your seats so that the colleague has the opportunity to speak with dignity. The meeting has already begun. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I just wanted us not to start this meeting by approving the verifier's peace and quiet, and then in peace and quiet, we approve the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, or the negotiation of a bill in a state of legislative emergency. What the Ministry of Health has brought is, in my opinion, completely inconvenient. What would probably be of interest to the citizens of the Czech Republic to be able to have some identity card within the framework of the European Covidpass that would allow those who are vaccinated or have received COVID-19 to prove themselves. There are a number of other things that, of course, are for discussion, like antibodies and others. I find it completely unfortunate that the Ministry will bring it this late, even in a situation where the Minister is ending at this moment and tomorrow is likely to be some other, and that it is pushing the House to negotiate in a state of legislative emergency. For this reason, we will not vote in favour and, if necessary, we will deal with the draft law in regular due consideration. I think that would be right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. President-in-chief Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. It's basically a similar remark. We do not think - the SPD movement - that covidpas should be discussed at all. But while we are in a legislative emergency, we think that this is an abuse of this legal title of legislative emergency, in which this law should be discussed, and that is why, of course, we will also vote against it. Not only against the negotiation of this law in a legislative emergency, but against the law as a whole, but we will get to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Mr. Pávek MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to introduce you to the position of the mayors and independents. We will certainly not support the state of legislative emergency, because we see no reason for this, and we will not support the law in its form. We believe that the law deserves a more extensive discussion, it is not possible to shorten it, and we will not miss anything, because here we have a regulation of the European Union that will come into force anyway, which means this issue will be dealt with basically automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u7	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will now speak with priority. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Very briefly, you sleep in a formal way. I don't want to go into the contents of this law in any way. When the Government asks for a hearing in a state of legislative emergency and for a declaration of such a situation, as President of the Chamber of Deputies, I am obliged to comply with this request, and I will therefore set a time limit. It is then up to the Chamber of Deputies to decide by vote whether or not the conditions for extending the state of legislative emergency actually exist. That's what this debate is about. [[14.10 hours]] However, I would also like to say that, in the event that we vote on this vote, there are no conditions for a legislative emergency, or we would vote before the point itself - if it were to be included - against the accelerated procedure. This means that this proposal is unnegotiable at this meeting, as the 10-day period, which is legal under the Rules of Procedure, is not respected. The debate was quite very constructive even on the grémium. There are strong voices within the Chamber of Deputies that there is no deeper debate within the Chamber of Deputies that it would not do anybody any good to agree with this by force this afternoon. The debate continued with the Health Committee that if the Health Committee had set a deadline for the House to discuss it by 15. 6. This means that there should be a wider debate, preferably with the involvement of an expert group, and we could do it during the variable week. However, if we now vote in a way that we do not agree with the legislative situation, with the state of legislative emergency - which may happen, we will respect the House's decisions - it is essentially unnegotiable, and I am afraid, given the date we have, that we are not able to adopt the law by the classic first or second reading. Under Section 90, I am convinced that the veto would fall. In any case, we wouldn't have made it to this meeting. If there is to be a parliamentary debate on a proposal that may at the end of the debate, so now if we wish to debate, you wish to be heard in this debate, so I would ask you to vote in favour in this vote and thus open up the possibility for a debate with the fact that I have an updated proposal that there will be a procedural proposal after this point, that the point should be interrupted and that all those who have something to say should be able to comment on it, we would give it wide scope. However, there would only be a second and third reading and we could do it in, say, a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. There is not yet a debate on the agenda of the meeting, there is a debate on the legislative emergency. President of the Pirát Club Jakub Michálek, registered colleague Grospič and colleague Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. So we have a repeat of the situation we had here last year, that the government presented in a legislative emergency an amendment on public health protection, which was supposed to extend the powers of the Minister of Health in a huge way, and as we all know. The law didn't discuss it, he sat down dust on it, and it ended with us finally starting to deal with the pandemic law after many months. So the situation is repeating itself to us here. Once again, we have a draft amendment to the Act in Section 69 of the Public Health Act, which allows the Ministry of Health to order a ban on entry into public or private events or public spaces for anyone who does not have a test, vaccination or disease due to any infectious disease. The limits and control typical of the pandemic law are not at all there. What is typical of all the laws discussed by the Constitutional Court and found to be unconstitutional has only a very formal part of the explanatory memorandum in which the appellant's view is written that the bill does not conflict with constitutional order. So there is absolutely no settlement in terms of proportionality and I do not think it is possible to approve the law in this regime. I would like to say that we are certainly not against proposals that will contribute to implementing European legislation in relation to the covidpass so that people can go on vacation and so on. But this goes far beyond what is needed in terms of European legislation, and if the government is in a hurry to make a good proposal for this purpose, I would like to call on it to present a new proposal in a legislative emergency, one that will be discussed with the MPs, discussed and actually stick to what is absolutely necessary. It won't be an extensive law. There's a lot of problems there. I was talking here not only about the fact that the law, as it is presented, concerns all diseases, not just covid. There is no need for restrictions on the state of pandemic emergency, so even in terms of time, there is no restriction. So these are all things that, of course, they had and could have solved at the Ministry of Health, and there's no point in us fixing this place and quickly approving it in a state of legislative emergency, because the proposal is really extremely expanding, and, on the contrary, it would be necessary for the Ministry of Health, when he's making proposals here, to keep them from adding to those packages things that are far beyond the state of legislative emergency, and then we're getting all complicated here in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only factually speaking about what the President of the House has said. I do not believe that it reads the Rules of Procedure quite correctly. At the request of the Government, the President of the House may decide that the Government's bill will be dealt with in a state of legislative emergency. I know the President is holding this, saying so, but yet his competence is to tell the government, "Don't do it, take it back." He leaves this decision at the House, but then please let the House decide. I would simply expect that if the government wants - and we are no longer in a situation of absolute crisis - to need a covidpas, we know about four to six months that we will need it, in the form that the European Union has said, we know about a month and a half. It is not possible for the government, especially this Ministry of Health, which simply is unable to draw up a single draft legislative regulation so as to pass the Supreme Administrative Court review, not to mention us, so it is not possible that the Ministry always has something to do with it, brought it here and said: You must approve it in 12 hours. This cannot be done in my opinion. The Ministry needs to reach out to all MPs in order to find a minimalist version that allows us to travel abroad, not to bother citizens in this country, not to bother, and not to invent that even private events will require some antigenic or PCR tests. Then we can talk about whether we're able to approve it in some quick time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Just a note I might say from this place. I read that section 99 differently: the President of the House declares. There's no way he can. It's a legislative emergency. I have to. That's what I meant. Mr Grospič's point of fact? Or a debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear members of the government, I would like to say for the Communist Party Club of Bohemia and Moravia that we will also not support the state of legislative emergency, because we believe that the bill presented is not only poorly developed, it not only goes beyond the standard amendment, although necessary, of the Public Health Act, but basically copies what we once had here in the House, it was said here. I would also like to remind you here that, at present, we have a valid so-called covid law with which this bill is quite diametrically entering into a legislative conflict, which I think would be best in this context if the government simply withdrew this proposal and submitted something other, meaningful, to the Chamber of Deputies, even if it were to be dealt with in some shortened reading or even in a legislative emergency, so that it could be discussed by the end of the parliamentary term. Then I would like to say that the government goes beyond what the European Union directives provide. I am a little sorry that by the so-called covidpass and what the European Union directive provides, we are actually creating citizens of double categories, those who will be registered, who will have some covidpasses, who will have some vaccinations, and the others, for the full-fledged and the less-ful. And that is certainly contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate? Mr. Chairman, I have registered your application for the program. We're dealing with a state of legislative emergency right now, but of course you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Mr President, you have not been to the counter before, but I have applied to Vice-President Filip here for this point, the issue of a state of legislative emergency. I have a few brief points to make. I'm asking myself, "Governor, are you crazy? Fuck off with that attitude. Here were the moments that needed to be dealt with. We dealt with the pandemic law here, so it was normally communicated, it came up, we said, "We're looking for parameters for conformity, we're going to do it in a state of legislative emergency, we sat on it, there was a legislative process in 14 days. Now no deal, no avizo, no effort to act and agree on parameters, you come up with such a broad proposal, you want it now in a legislative emergency, you interfere with things that go on or on the edge of constitutionality. That's really not a normal procedure. Pull it back, we'll get it back to you for processing. We offer our experts for the AntiCovid team and come up with it eventually again. But not with this procedure! And don't try to blackmail us that it's really 12 in here in a minute, now it's got to be dealt with. At the turn of February and March our AntiCovid team repeatedly urged and said: Come to solve this issue legislatively and technically. You ditched it, nothing, the Department of Health doesn't work, there are ministers taking turns as holy on the clock, and now suddenly, this week, today, tomorrow, here in a state of legislative emergency, we have to make such a fundamental change in legislation. Not like that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u17	I ask if anybody else has been debating the state of legislative emergency, to extend it. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'll call my colleagues. Please take your seats. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. We all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered is 173, for 77, versus 72. This proposal has been rejected and has not been approved. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 104th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose, first of all, to exclude from the proposal for a programme 104. meeting points 47 and 386 of the draft programme, print 952. Further include a new item in the proposal for the 104th meeting, that is the proposals of the Chamber of Deputies for granting or granting state honours, House document 8439, and include it firmly on Wednesday 2. 6:30 p.m. Further firmly include paragraphs 393 to 398 - electoral points - on Wednesday 26. 5:00 p.m., or Wednesday 2:00 p.m., or Wednesday 2:00 p.m., or Wednesday 2:00 p.m., or Wednesday 2:00 p.m. 6. at 18:00, recalling that point 398 can only be discussed from Friday 4. 6. Further include point 343, House press 793, which is the proposal of Members of Monika Červíčková, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Válková Válkova and others to issue a law amending Act No. 358/1993 Coll., on notaries and their activities, notary regulations, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, third reading, on Friday 28. 5:00 p.m., 1:40 p.m. Paragraph 336, press 1091, government bill amending the law on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and amending certain laws as amended, third reading, paragraph 346, print 1043, government bill on the Civil Card Act, third reading, and paragraph 346, print 1044, government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Civil Card Act, also third reading, all on Wednesday 2 June as the first item of the hearing. Paragraph 348, print 1084, Government Bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and amending certain related laws, the Act on Electronic Communications, as amended, and some other laws, third reading, on Wednesday 16. 6. 2021 as the first point. Finally, allow me to make an organizational statement on the course of our meeting on Thursday, May 27. The 105th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 9 o'clock. 10 minutes after its completion, we will continue the 93rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, which has been suspended indefinitely, and after the end of this meeting, we would continue the adjourned 102th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the next 10 minutes. That's all the grémium we agreed on today. It is now time for the Members to vote - Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u18	Excuse me, coworkers and colleagues, I'm sorry, I'm on drugs for being held up, and it doesn't express my will. I voted in favour. I question the vote on legislative emergency. Thank you for understanding, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u19	So we are going back to the vote on the state of legislative emergency. First of all, we will vote on the Member's objection. I've started the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered is 180, for 162, versus 2. The motion was accepted. So I will once again make a resolution that we would vote on, let us be clear. There's a check-out request. Please, I just gave her permission. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 174 Members registered, for 82, against 86. The motion has not been approved. If there wasn't another vote check, we'd continue. I've read the Gremium proposal. Now I have a few priority rights here. The President of Jurečka was the first to report before the beginning of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to propose the inclusion of a point which could be quite factual and concise. The name of that point is Government information on the state of pandemic emergency and further progress. I would like to place that point as the first item in the House's afternoon meeting for tomorrow. There are a few things that lead me to this. [[14.30 hours]] Firstly, I would like the government to start respecting the laws of this country, so that the measures announced by the Minister of Health are in line with the law adopted by this House. It is not possible that there is practically every week that the court corrects the flagrant proceedings of the Ministry of Health, which cannot write measures and justify them so that it is in accordance with the law. So I'd like the members of the government to be able to stand up to this here and at the same time give us information...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u22	That's exactly the same as before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u23	It is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u24	That's a little better... and, at the same time, they gave us information on the follow-up to the pandemic measures, as well as on the aid under the compensatory bonus. I'd like to ask you now, maybe even Secretary Schillerová, the Vice Prime Minister, to step up. [[MP Faltynek and MP Vostrá are discussing with Minister Schiller sitting in the government bench behind the speaker's counter.]] They have a meeting here, President Faltýnek and President Vostrá. I don't want to interrupt, we'll wait like the House, totally fine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u25	I'll ask the participants at the government bench if it's possible to disturb the performer. Madam Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. I would now like the Vice Prime Minister to pay attention, because I would also like to hear here about how it will be with the payment of the compensation bonus after the end of May, because it is impossible to accept what has been said in the public space - if it was meant seriously that the payment of the compensation bonus ends with the end of May, because I understood in the context of the Minister's statement that from the perspective of the government all operations and trades are actually open. That's not how it is in real life. Or tell us it's gonna be different, because a pub that doesn't have a garden isn't gonna be fully open. And there are other activities that will continue to be limited, so I would like information to be heard here tomorrow as well as on this matter, because people are turning to us. So please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, if you could support this point and come up with information tomorrow, otherwise I'm forced to advise that we will seriously consider ending the pandemic emergency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Another priority right I have marked - President Rakušan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u28	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to be very brief, but I will nevertheless have to ask you to include a point on the current situation in Belarus at the beginning of today's meeting, preferably as the first item in today's meeting. I think that, as a Parliament of a free country, as a Member State of the European Union, we cannot remain indifferent to the fact that there has been a clear violation of international law, airspace rules and a breach of the integrity of the European Union and the Schengen area. The European Parliament will address the issue and it would be desirable that the Czech Republic and its Parliament also have its own resolution on the issue. Under incredible circumstances, Raman Pratasevič, a citizen who was in international airspace, was arrested and subjected to an incredibly brutal military action by the Lukašenkův regime, apparently ordered by President Lukašenko himself. Without any scruples, he took the liberty of forcing a commercial flight to land and arrest a citizen who was protected on board an aircraft by being in international airspace. It is a situation that is unprecedented, a situation that is unprecedented in modern history, and we, as a coalition of pirát and starosta, have prepared our own resolution on the subject. The resolution is prepared according to my information as well as the second opposition coalition, and we are, of course, ready to cooperate not to vote on two competing resolutions here. If you include this item on the agenda for today's meeting, we will, of course, cooperate and prepare a joint resolution. At the same time, I have forwarded to individual representatives of the MPs, except perhaps one where I was unable to arrive, a draft of our letter, a letter from Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to the Belarusian Government, where, in addition to describing the whole situation, we ask that the Pratasevič Government comply with what it has in its own constitution. Article 2 states that the rights and freedoms of individuals and their guarantees are the key value of Belarusian society. It is evident that this is not the case, and it is evident that a country such as ours, which has its own personal and great experience without freedom, should be one that will not be indifferent to what other dictatorial regimes in Europe implement and how they intervene not only within their own country, but in this case also in international law. At the same time, in our resolution, we also have a call for Czech airlines to consider very carefully the security of Belarus' airspace and whether they would consider the same steps as Lufthansa, KLM, Air Baltic, which decided to avoid Belarus's airspace because of this crazy case. At the same time, we demand that Belarus give a clear apology to all passengers of the flight and at the same time compensate them for the damage that was really caused by forced landing in Belarus. But these are all secondary matters. The most important thing is for people to be released and for Belarus to stop violating international law, to realise that the violation of international law has its consequences for the state as Belarus is. I ask you very much, colleagues, this may be a very quick point, but we should not be overwhelmed by our own issues and, as Parliament of the Czech Republic, look away from what has happened. We are a member country of the European Union, and certainly the voice from us should be heard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Another priority right - Vice-President Filip, President Bartošek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. To the beginning of the programme, I do not think so much that in a situation where we have over 530 points of the programme and unnegotiated things that are important, to include some substitute topics that can be dealt with by the committee or anyone else on the agenda, and I am convinced that lobbyists of foreign companies who acquire contracts at the expense of Czech companies can save the speeches and appeals for media performances. When we talk about the agenda of the meeting, I consider it necessary to remind you that a moment ago we were talking about the press 1225, this is the current state of affairs of the bills submitted to the Czech Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, and I want to talk about the pre-routing of the laws in second reading, and that is the printings 117 and 111, i.e. the prints that come from 2017. This is a second reading of the referendum law, so that we can move them further, points 40 and 39 just before point 10. I believe that those who came to the Chamber of Deputies in the elections of 2017 with the conviction that a referendum law will be passed during this parliamentary term will realise that this promise must also be fulfilled to the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[14.40 hours]] That is why I believe that we have so little time until the end of the parliamentary term, and we need to address our promises in order to be able to meet them with citizens, and I am convinced that moving these prints through second reading as press that have the chance to succeed at third reading, at least in the Chamber of Deputies, because the constitutional majority in both the Commission and the Committee on Constitutional Law will come together well according to the number of individual clubs. So that is my proposal, and I therefore ask the Chamber of Deputies to put points 40 and 39 before point 10 at the beginning of the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. President Bartošek, President Faltýnek will be prepared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I come up with a proposal for the inclusion of a new item called The Disclaimer of Hana Lipovský from the Czech Television Council. At the meeting of the last meeting, I asked the Election Committee by letter to assess whether the negotiations of this member of the Czech Television Council are in accordance with a law defining the conduct and activities of the Council of Czech Television. In its observations, the House's Legislative Department has taken the view that Hana Lipovská, as a member of the Czech Television Council, should not express her views and attitudes on behalf of any public body in particular in matters falling within the scope of the Board under Section 8 of the Czech Television Act, since such statements may call into question its independence or impartiality in the performance of a member of the Czech Television Council. I believe that Hana Lipovská, on the one hand, violates the ban applicable to members of the Czech Television Council under the law, in which it is said that he must not act in favour of group interests in the exercise of his duties in the Council, while I believe that he is fulfilling the deed for dismissal by systematically committing acts which call into question his independence or impartiality in the performance of the duties of a member of the Council. Its political activity in itself in a democratic legal state is possible and admissible, but it is unacceptable in terms of the independence of the attributes of Czech television. At the same time, I believe that, in my view, political action seriously undermines the dignity of a member of the Czech Television Council. I ask you, colleagues, to support this point, to include it in the agenda and in the subsequent vote. I would like the Chamber of Deputies to undergo this process, because we must define for ourselves, as MEPs, what behaviour is still acceptable to us and what behaviour we will not tolerate, because free and independent media, public media are a guarantee of democracy, and I believe that those who are in the Council should, first of all, respect and respect the law. Let us put this point in order, let us put it to a vote, and let us actually discuss it, because if you do not support this point, from my point of view, you are taking the side of those who are not prepared to respect the law, and they do not care who controls the Czech Television. In the event that this item is included on the agenda for the meeting, I ask that it be included today at 17 o'clock, in the event that this proposal does not pass, so tomorrow before the meeting, before the vote, that is, at 16.30 and at 17. I believe that until we are clear to this Council member, there should not be another election of the members of the Czech Television Council, because this discussion will be absolutely crucial to determine what else is and what the Chamber of Deputies is no longer willing to tolerate or not to tolerate members and members of the Czech Television Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u33	Now President Faltýnek with priority right to the agenda, then President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u34	Hello, fellow Members, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, thank you for your attention and your word. I would be the first to report to my colleague Bartošek's proposal on behalf of our club and club KSČM. Let us lead the debate, we can lead it in the election committee on other Council members and so on and so on. But now for my proposal. I would like to ask everyone to support my proposal, including House Press 503, which is an amendment to the law on teaching workers who have returned the Senate to us, at the end of the block of laws returned and rejected by the Senate. As far as President Rakušan's proposal to Belarus is concerned, we will support - the YES movement - the inclusion of this item on the agenda, but I would only ask that, if possible, we do not start today to discuss at least some of the Senate vomit and to discuss it later, but that will certainly be one of my colleagues' proposals if this item is included on the agenda so that we can find some reasonable time during today or today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Only technically, today we approve the agenda of the whole meeting, we have the first meeting, so there is no veto, so we will vote on this proposal. President Michálek, then Vice-President Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose to include in the agenda of the meeting an implementing act for a moving mandate. At the previous meeting, we have already moved forward the issue of a slippery mandate, which has relatively broad support here. We're gonna be out of time 27. 5. I suggest that we include the House Press 965, the implementing act for a moving mandate, second reading and third reading in order to include the second reading of this implementing law at a fixed time of 14.30 as the second point after the honours on Wednesday, 2 June. As a further proposal to amend the agenda, I propose that we start on the date of the sitting. 28 5. - Friday - they included an amendment to the conflict of interest law, House press 956, paragraph 342. It is a draft law which has been submitted, which regulates the issue of property returns to the register after the Constitutional Court has found, it is presented across the political spectrum and it is necessary for us to approve this law as a response to the Constitutional Court's finding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. Vice-President Černochová with priority rights for the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Beautiful afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a new item on the agenda for our meeting on behalf of the CAO coalition entitled The proposal for sanctions against Belarus after the Sunday act of state terrorism against the civil aircraft. We are all watching the situation in Belarus as a reminiscence on the regime that ruled our country before 1989. Unfortunately, this regime is not aimed at some relaxation or democratization, but the conditions of life in Belarus are rather deteriorating. The repression against its own population is escalating and directed not only towards its own citizens and ethnic Bělorus, but also to the Polish minority, a topic that we have recently discussed at a meeting of the Foreign Committee, and we have even adopted a resolution. The Sunday event, the actual kidnapping of a civilian aircraft using military means, this act of state terrorism was another step towards greater aggression and violation of the principle of international law, when the actions of the Belarusian regime affected the lives of several dozen citizens of other democratic countries, their rights and security and, last but not least, the security of the Schengen area. This was undoubtedly a politically motivated step, an intervention in the integrity of the European Union state, which must not be left unanswered. [[14.50 hours]] Last but not least, this was another violent move against the Belarusian opposition, when the journalist and opposition leader Raman Pratasevič, who is now being questioned, was arrested, and there is increasing suspicion that methods such as those in custody are of a violent nature. This is certainly not a course of action that democratic countries should stand idly by. It is not acceptable for any State to proceed in this way. We welcome the fact that yesterday, at their summit, the leaders of the European Union expressed a united position aimed at banning flights from Belarus to the European Union, limiting flights to Belarus, as well as further sanctions. This response is necessary and must be as hard as possible in order that sanctions affect, in particular, the leaders of the Lukašenkův regime, which adheres to power through repression and violence. That is why we want to address this issue here today, we want to discuss with the Government what sanctions the Czech Republic will propose or implement and how it will proceed, and we want to support it in the next steps, the Government of the Czech Republic. At the same time, we consider it necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to strongly define with its resolution the process of Belarus in this matter and send out a clear signal that citizens of the Czech Republic, through their legislators, condemn this violent act against foreign nationals. Finally, I want to warn that Belarus must not be the cause of distraction from the aggression of the Russian authoritarian regime that we have faced and continue to face. We must not forget that both these authoritarian regimes are moving hand in hand, and we must not approach their provocations. We must not approach violations of international law or human rights. Testing the members of the European Union and NATO allies, how much they will last, must end on the part of Russia and Belarus, and we will only achieve this through strong and coordinated pressure. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of this point as the first point today, and certainly for the ODS club, and I assume, even for the SPOLU coalition club, we are always prepared to speak on this point only one or two Members at a maximum. We do not have the objective of devising today's negotiations in any way, but we believe that it is actually appropriate to clearly define and adopt a strong resolution against what happened on Sunday. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u39	Thank you. After less than an hour, we get through priority rights to those who applied to the agenda without prior rights. First up is Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what is permitted to the master is not permitted to the master. Such an old Czech saying is valid, and I would just like to briefly recall the situation of Bolivia and its President Morales, who was forced by European states to land in Vienna to examine his plane, whether Edward Snowden was on board by chance. So when one does it, it's okay if the authoritarian regime does it, it's not okay. But we have done this here in international law. But now let me respond to why I volunteered, which means putting a point in the program. There was a threat to democracy from my previous speakers in the Czech Television news and the intervention of the Czech Television Council in the programme. I would like to put a similar subject on today's point, and that is the subject of a balanced pluralist approach of political actors to the election campaign. It applies to all of us here, only less advantage in this approach are YES, ČSSD, KSČM, SPD, threefold advantage in this political struggle is the tricolation of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, twice advantage in this access to the media are the pirát and the starosta. Because there are election debates going on, if you haven't noticed, co-workers, co-workers. And in this format, public television has how many minutes each of the parties involved? Czech Television here flagrantly violates the equality of parties in the election campaign, because the result of the campaign will be votes for one subject within a three-wheeler or a two-wheeler, but also for individual political candidates. This is a flagrant violation of the electoral law and equality of access to the public media, which is why I would very much like us to include this item, a discussion point on the agenda of this meeting, and, where appropriate, if this inclusion were to pass, I would like us to discuss this point from six o'clock tonight, to send a clear message to the public media, as should equal discussions in the pre-election competitions, within the electoral persuasion of voters. In the current situation, it's a three-on-one power play or two-on-one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Member Lubomír Volný. I'm just reminding you that the government's measures in the interior of the buildings are still ongoing, Mr. Ambassador. I hereby give you a reminder and a word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I don't wear a drape for medical reasons, I'm not wearing it. So I'm here today to draw your attention, as far as possible, to two petitions from doctors and medical professionals, but here's the business and economics that put together two petitions. One is an open letter from doctors to the government, Parliament and the media regarding the so-called coronavirus crisis and the other is a petition from the Healthy Forum. I've talked about them here several times in the foolish hope that you have no idea what I'm talking about, but I've learned from the conversations with many of you that, like, 98 percent of you don't know the petitions at all. You don't know what you're voting on, and you don't know what you're talking about, and that's why, as part of this motion to change the agenda of the meeting, where I propose re-entering these petitions, I'll read those petitions to you so you know what it's all about. And I'll read you all those signatories, too, because you were lazy to do your homework. Some of you are sewing up, you want to leave again, and you will be beautifully filmed leaving the House again, so that you don't have to listen to what I'm reading to you. So open... yes, everything will be published as you leave, as you don't care, the noise will be released again, everyone will hear how you don't care at all what signed doctors want to tell you. So: "Open letter to doctors, government, parliament and media regarding the so-called coronavirus crisis. Preamble: This petition is the result of the consensus of practitioners and academic representatives. It was created during the month of September, when the comments of all the experts involved were discussed and taken into account, who, like the signed signatories, feel and use their civil law as well as the medical obligation to comment on the situation in our country. As doctors, we feel a civil obligation to comment on the coronavirus crisis that has hit our country hard. We are fully aware of the seriousness of the situation and the health risks it entails. [[15.00 hours]] However, we see much greater danger of endangering the overall health of the people in drastic government measures than in covid's illness as such." You really don't care, do you? Thank you for your honesty. These are people who are smarter than you, more educated in the field and people who, unlike you, saved thousands of lives. "From a medical point of view, we do not see any reason to deepen restrictive measures, and therefore we ask the government to: - She calmed the population and stopped scaring them with the number of infected with one particular disease. - She's dropped other restrictive measures. - The compulsory wearing of the drapes has only been introduced where it clearly requires an epidemiological situation. - She abandoned the mandatory testing of people without symptoms and left the necessity of the test at the discretion of the treating physician. - She did not allow the vaccine to be placed on the market and did not introduce vaccination as mandatory. - She was working to rebuild a devastated economy. After more than six months from the beginning of the announcement of the pandemic in our country it is clear that: - This type of coronavirus does not pose a serious threat to healthy citizens of working age if they are not exposed to a high dose of the virus in the long term. If this population encounters the virus, it usually does not show any or only mild symptoms consistent with a common flu disease. - A virus may pose a threat to elderly and chronically ill citizens, to about the same extent as other conavir influenza or other viral infections. We believe that our health care is at a high level and is able to take care of a vulnerable group of people. - A much greater danger to the general health of the people is the medial image of covid disease. Never in the past has the population been informed of one particular disease for so long, so detailed and all the media at once. The public is frightened as a result of this unprecedented way. - There are more and more serious diseases than COVID-19, and people are not constantly stressed by all the media. Focusing public attention on one particular type of coronavirus is a dangerous precedent of fear and the devastating psyche of people and their social relations, which can have an unsightly devastating impact on the economy and the overall life of society. Government quarantine measures have no justification but to strengthen fear and uncertainty and to aggravate the poor economic situation. Flat wearing a drape is not appropriate. Long-term wearing a drape does not contribute to the health of the wearer. The introduction of drapes in schools is completely contrary to common sense. Kids don't belong in a vulnerable population, they're just overstressed. Just as pointless is shutting down schools because of a disease that losing children won't hurt, it only strengthens their immune system. Not to mention the difficulties that school closure causes their parents and, in turn, affects the country's economic situation. Restrictive measures forbidding and restricting business have seriously damaged the country's economy and have fundamentally influenced the psyche of the population. For several months, fellow citizens of many professions have been living in uncertainty and fear of economic failure. We are concerned about reports of a rapid vaccine against COVID-19. The effectiveness of such a vaccine is more than questionable and can produce a lot of side effects. Testing healthy people, unless they decide to do so voluntarily as self-helpers, is unnecessarily exhausting the health system and burdening insurance companies. We ask for balanced reporting taking into account the overall context, because each individual statistical data can be interpreted in different ways. Journalists should inform more about the different options for prevention and treatment. They should allow opinion arguments and non-discriminatory public access to other views on the overall situation and other therapeutic options. The government should stop the country's economic fall, calm the population, guarantee the freedom of every individual in all areas, and make it clear that the country's cultural, social and economic life does not intend to sacrifice itself to fight one kind of virus. Let's get our lives back to normal, with the experience of the last few months helping people think more about a healthy way of life and their own abilities to take responsibility for themselves." Signing: MUDr. Ladislav Fiala, MUDr. Radkin Honzák, MUDr. Jan Hnízdil, MUDr. Kateřina Lucká, Bc David Petrásek, bioanalyst, profesor MUDr. Jan Pirk, DrSc, was fired from work at 99.999 percent for daring to sign this petition, docent. MUDr. Roman Šmucler, MVDr. Jiří Urbánek, MBA, and MUDr. Ivan Vondřich. So that's one of the petitions you probably didn't know existed to this day, which is why I had to read it to you. But I understand that out of about 95 Members present, I may have had, like, seven of them listening to me, but that's okay. I'll read you one more petition, and that's a Healthy Forum petition: "Let's get the kids back to school and the country back to normal! We, the undersigned, believe that it is not possible to maintain the condition that has existed in our country since spring 2020. Drastic government action has a profound impact on all citizens, and particularly lower income groups. Huge damage is now not only in the property but also in the social, family, cultural and psychological plane of all the inhabitants of the country. Chaotic government measures, the constant closure and dislodgement of the entire country due to a disease with relatively low mortality are no longer possible and sustainable in the long term. It is not possible to protect a small percentage of the population by destroying everyone else's lives. We demand: 1. immediate return of pupils and students to schools without conditions: - The right to education is a fundamental social right and is enshrined in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 33 of Law No. 2/1993 Coll., Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and cannot be subject to cover or test. - Online teaching is in no way a full alternative. - The government measure concerns 1,000,000 pupils of secondary education, 400,000 students of secondary education and 300,000 pupils of secondary education. - We are one of the few EU countries where schools are closed - the government has not published, despite many requests, any relevant document or study on why schools need to be closed. - The measure is harmful to the psychological development of children and their education. As a source of infection, schools are negligible, according to the Ministry's data only 1.4-4.8 percent of all diseases. - For children, COVID-19 is not dangerous, only drapes are harmful to children. - The measure represents a major intervention for single mothers and health professionals in both hospitals and social services. 2. We demand targeted protection of risk groups: - After consulting doctors, identifying risky persons. - This is what we consider the first step towards targeted protection, because it is these people who end up primarily in hospitals and fill their capacities. For example, divide patients into several risk groups - based on medical data and experience to determine which comorbidities are most risky. - According to the number of potentially risky persons, finally choose an appropriate strategy for targeted protection and prevention. - This targeted protection strategy will be implemented immediately instead of testing thousands of non-signal persons in an intrepid group. - A detailed proposal for a solution to the problem must be a consensus of experts from many sectors, not just one closely targeted group of government scientists. 3. Relaxation of measures and gradual return of the country to normal: - Exhaling to apply gradually - hand in hand with targeted but voluntary protection of risk groups of the population. - Objective and balanced information to the public without lying, missteps and unnecessary and pointless haunting. - Non-inhibiting constitutional rights and freedoms. [[15.10 hours]] - We ask for the full openness of all relevant data obtained by the state in relation to pandemics, including data on real hospital capacities. The virus will probably be here with us forever. We therefore ask for the search and adoption of targeted and sustainable measures in the form of voluntary and not a command, which will not devastate society and will continue to function even after the country returns to normal." [[Noise in the hall.]] For those of us who don't care at all, so either they're gone or they're not listening, we're going to read who smarter people than us signed this petition and who are totally ignored by both you and the Czech media for the time being: profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc; docent MUDr. Martin Balík, ., EDIC; MUDr. Hana Zelená, D; profesor MUDr. Jan Pirk, DrSc - we've already talked about this, he's already been punished for his insolence; MUDr. Jan Hnízdil; MUDr. Vít Mareček; MUDr. Šimon Reich; MUDr. Soňa Peková, .; MUDr. Eva Bojanovská; MUDr. Jana Cibulková; MUDr. Kamila Součková; Jaroslava Toutonghi, MBA; Vendula Pončíková - Nurse ARO; MUDr. Michal Schreier; MUDr. Lukáš Dostal; Věra Výdová - nurse; MUDr. Milan Pastucha; MUDr. Bohumír Šimík; MUDr. Hana Višňová, .; docent MUDr. Petr Višňa, .; MUDr. Lumír Žila; MUDr. Jaroslav konečný; MUDr. Hana Štefaničová; MUDr. Jan Brodníček; MUDr. Ludmila Bendová; MUDr. Aleš Skřivánek, .; MUDr. Jana Gandalovičová; MUDr. Kateřina Kulhánková; MUDr. Marta Šimůnková; MUDr. Kateřina Lucká; Jiří Růžička - dad, senator, director of Jan Kepler Grammar School, 600 students; Petr Pávek - dad, PSP Member, Health Committee; Eva Špačková - mom, deputy mayor of Prague 1; Alice Aronová - mother of two children, university teacher; Michal Šteffl - a university teacher; Dita Sudová - teacher; Ivan Langr - Deputy Mayor for Education, Social Affairs and Tourism, Liberec; Vlaďka Zalabáková Tvrdíková - mother of two children, principal of language school, 340 students; Ivo Petrů - university teacher, Faculty of Philosophy of the University of South Bohemia; Kateřina Staňková - Deputy Director of elementary school, 540 pupils; Martina Štanclová - Director of Magic Schools; Kateřina Gančarčíková - Director of elementary school, 83 pupils; Rostislav Novotný - Director of Gajdošova University, Brno, 630 pupils; Petr Zuska - former head of the National Theatre Ballet; Tomáš Nielsen - lawyer; Jan Nevrkla - Director and Chief Executive of Czech Para Swimming. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Looks like even the names of your potential voters won't make you calm down. Okay, we're good to go. You can show your disrespect for the people of this country even more with increased noise. They'll notice. Vendula Zahumenská - mother of two children, lawyer; David Zahumenský - father of two children, lawyer; Margit Slimáková - health prevention specialist; Zuzana Kocumová - mom, sport, olympic; Radka Fišarová - mother of one child, singer; Zdeněk Žádníková Volencová - mother of four children, actress; Karel Hanzlík - father of two children, mayor of the Prague 16 district; Michael Pánek - father of four children, representative of the Central Bohemia Region; Karolína Bosáková - mother of two children, director of the Happy Hearts Foundation; David Huf - father of two children, fitness coach; Daniela Révai - mother of two children, presenter and reporter; Kateřina Haring - mom, president of the Czech Moravian Association of Entrepreneurs and Managers; Klára Kolouchová - mother of two children, climber; Marcela Krplová - mother of two children, businesswoman; Martina Sajdlová - mother of two children, businesswoman; Silvia Průšková - mother of three children, artist; Marta Hlávková - mother of four children, businesswoman; Magdalena Vokáčová - mom, art therapist and coach; Mgr Vladimír Mrkvička - lawyer; Mgr Lenka Trkalová - lawyer; Filip Staněk - dancer and teacher; PhDr Lenka Dohnalová, . - mom and grandmother, publicist, secretary of the Czech Music Council. So these two petitions, under which are signed professionals in the field, which few people here in this House can compare, in their field virtually not at all, certainly not an average Member, would like to appear on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I think they'd like to look you in the eye and make expert arguments as to why 30,000 people died here. And they would like to make expert arguments as to why 15,000 people died after vaccination in January, February, and March of this year. The Czech Social Security Administration pays less than 15 000 pensions for the first three months of this year. Most of the deceased are in the age category that was first vaccinated because they got it from our government under the tree. It's kind of an interesting retirement reform. And maybe these people would like to warn about both this pension reform and the next steps of the government. The question is, why don't you want them here? And I felt it was only because you didn't read the petitions. But you didn't just read them, you didn't even listen to them now. You just don't give a damn about it. In general, you don't care what the citizens think. And you don't even care what the professional public thinks that doesn't agree with how the covid mafia behaves here. But there is an election coming up, and you should realize that many of you really do not rise, but rather fall, and if one of the reasons may not be that your contempt for citizens is too obvious. And I will therefore ask you to stop scorning citizens and these experts and approve of the inclusion of this item in the agenda for this meeting. For the time being, I'm not saying when. I just need you to approve their inclusion in the agenda of this meeting, because you're sending out a signal to people that you've been opposed to what's been going on here for over a year, that you've been interested in and that you might also be interested in why 15,000 seniors died in January, February and March of this year. For the whole last year - I repeat - there were 14,500. In January, February, and March, 15,000 died during the months we started to vaccinate them. If you are interested in answering this question and you want to discuss it and you really haven't received any briefcases from the covideo mafia, then I beg you to approve these two items of the program. Thank you. Or one, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u43	Next, Mrs Pavla Golasowská is enrolled in the debate. Of course, I do not want to discriminate against anyone, so my admonition is also given to Mr Bojko. [[Member Lubomír Free and Member Marian Bojko are in the room without a drape.]] Madam, you have the floor. [[Member Golasowski calls first to disinfect the speaker's desk.]] I see. I'm begging for disinfectant. [[Dissipation in progress.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I propose to include the law on granting a lump sum to persons sterilized in violation of the law that goes to the third reading for next week on Wednesday 2. 6. as a first point or on Friday 4. 6th as the first point. It's House press number 603. At the same time, I thank you for your support in both readings, first and second. And I just want to point out that if there's good faith in both of those readings, the third reading vote could take place quickly. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. Now I'm going to ask Mrs. Tereza Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u46	Hello, honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable Government. I'd like to propose three points here today. The first point would be the conditions for children to enter schools. I don't know about you guys, I've been saying this about the 150th time, and I'm gonna keep saying it over and over again before you really start to see me and listen to what I'm saying. I get written by unhappy parents, unhappy teachers, children who disagree with it, even though they have to be tested twice a week, or now once a week, it doesn't matter, they're just tested, so they wear drapes. Most parents do not agree at all with any conditions or any conditions that you have placed in our children's schools. I find it pointless, completely pointless for a child to sit in a cloak all day long for six hours straight. You can't be mad at me, but it's total nonsense. If the tropics start 30 degrees outside, I'll step in front of the microphone and ask the Chamber of Deputies' Office to turn off the air conditioning here in the hall. And you know why? Because they're gonna have those 30 degrees in the schools in that mask, and they really don't have any air conditioning in the schools. So when the weather gets out and you don't get off your terms, I'm gonna ask the House Office to turn off the air conditioning here, too, so you can try out what it's like to sit in that heat all day long. And that's what I'm happy to do. I think it's really time to start using common sense and leave all the kids in schools without masks and without testing. I don't understand, and I don't know why it's not over. Even if the Minister of Health and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš are swaying here by the fact that the children are always in the first place for him, that you will discuss the disappearance of the drapes in the schools, so far nothing happens, so the deed has escaped. That's my first point. My second point is testing as a condition of entry into service. I'm asking, is this really freedom for our citizens? Really, in order to live a normal life, you could go get a glass of water somewhere in the restaurant in the garden, so you really have to take tests every three days? A healthy man? Why? Why are we paying for tests for people who don't need them? Why are we subjecting freedom to tests? Why are we doing this, and why did we let it go so far? You probably don't mind, but I think that almost all citizens are very upset about it, because if you're reading emails and messages, I think you're reading what I'm reading, and believe me or not, they're all desperate. What about the restaurants that you've kept closed for almost six months, now you've opened them beautifully, that's great, really, but again, only people who are vaccinated or tested can go there. And on top of that, you said now that two PCR tests will be free a month and four antigens. That's not even enough for the guy for the month, so he just won't be able to go anywhere, because the antigen test has to be once every 72 hours and the PCR test once a week, so it doesn't even work out. Well, I hope that's what our voters and citizens are watching and they're going to get their own opinion on it, because if that's what you call freedom, then I call it total totalitarianism. That's not freedom, and it has nothing to do with freedom. And I would very much like to see this point - testing as a condition of entry into all services, restaurants etc. - he's been talking calmly here because I'm not sure it's really the direction we should take. That was the second point. The third point I would like to propose here is the termination of the pandemic emergency. I designed this point here last time. We, as trikolóra, have also processed the constitutional lawsuit that I brought here to all the MPs, I have only the signatures of all the non-attached Members. All the MPs have refused to sign this, so we cannot bring this action because 25 signatures are needed. I don't mind, I don't think the citizens are going to think again about how you guys decide their lives here, but I don't think they like it, as much as they do the conversation about covidpasses. If you're reading people's reactions on the Internet, I really recommend that you have such a discussion about the covidpass, for example, because believe me, a hundred people out of 100 are really against that law. I'm not making that up, ask these people if you're still doing it, if you're interested in their opinion. And I would really like it if we could discuss these three points here in a decent, professional manner, and I think our citizens would appreciate it too. Thank you for your attention, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u47	I'm gonna ask you to stay for a while. You suggested that point the terms of children's entry into school, which is already on the agenda as point 534 and you have in your written request here proposed that an alternative on Friday at 13:00 or at 12:00. It didn't sound like a microphone. The next - testing as a condition of entry into all services - is point 535 and here again in writing is the proposal on Friday, 12, 11 or 13 hours. And at the end of the pandemic emergency today, it's the first point. It's just a recap. [[Mrs Hyth: Yes, thank you.]] Thank you. Mr Bartoň will also appear on the agenda: Mr Bartoň has signed up to see if I have registered well and Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Mrs Richterová, if appropriate, has a written application, so she has priority. [[Mr. Bartoň is on his way to the microphone.]] So, Mr Bartoň, then Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u48	Thank you for the floor. I would put forward a counter-proposal to Mr Faltýnek, who proposed a change of order at the door, namely the 503, House Press Act on Educational Workers, and proposed to relegate it from the first point to the end. I don't agree with this. This point is already under discussion, you just have to finish it. On this point, there is no dispute between the Senate version and the House version, because only the repair of technology has returned from the Senate. So I don't see why he should be included to the end of the door when we can discuss it as soon as possible. I'm kind of suggesting that if there's an attempt to put him at the end, that is, not to be discussed at all today, there's an attempt to reject him completely. This effort with the Government's bill is strange, with coalition MPs, that they are trying to sink the government's bill, so teachers' salaries are likely to be the cause, that is, the amendment that this government proposal contains. And that is why I propose that we discuss it today, and I propose a firm inclusion of this point at 16 o'clock, or I ask not to vote on its inclusion anywhere else so that it remains the first point of the return. [[15.30 hours]] I will just add that the proposal for the salaries of pedagogical workers, which this law contains, is fully in line with the long-term aim of education, which was issued by the Ministry of Education by 2023 and is due to apply from 2023. So it is something that the Ministry itself has approved and promised, and only this proposal puts it into legislation and it will therefore be a legal claim. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u49	This is item number 1 of the draft agenda, so there is no need to vote on staying first. I'm registering your counterproposal for a fixed rank at 4:00. Mrs Richterová and then Mr Bžoch will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u50	Hello. I am speaking with the proposal to move a point on support for foster children's social-law protection, House press number 911, and I think very compromise, proposal that this go for electronisation in health care, for 1163 and 1164, simply so that we can actually discuss it within the block at second reading. Why is that necessary? Because for a very long time now, I think it's been eight years, it hasn't rated the reward of temporary foster parents, and if we want our foster care system to work, this really needs to be discussed. The committee said that the 911 press would be able to discuss it even if it was returned to second reading, which is why I am standing here now and I suggest that we put it at least for the electronization in health care, for printing 1163 and 1164, simply because we really have to do it, because we still have to do second reading, new reading of amendments, and then third, so let's make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u51	I thank you for item 15 of the agenda at this time. Mr. Bžoch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I just have a counterproposal on the point proposed by my colleague Jana Černochová, so that - if we put him on the program, and I believe we will include him, because this is an important topic - so that we can place him firmly today from 18.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u53	Mrs Černochová's proposal? At 4:30? [[No.]] 6:30. Well, that's all for now on the agenda. I'm gonna call in my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm gonna take a moment to read some additional apologies. Mrs Jana Levová apologizes for working reasons for today's day. Mrs Černochová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u54	I thank my colleague Bžoch for the proposal, and therefore withdraw my proposal for the inclusion of that point as item 1. So let's put a point in the program, and there's only one motion to discuss that point at 6:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u55	Thank you. Minister Arenberger also apologizes for working reasons from 15 o'clock to the end of the day. This is all out of an apology and we will proceed to the vote on individual proposals, as has been said. So, of course, first of all, we would vote on the proposal for a grémium. If there is no objection, we would vote with one vote. There's a checkout request. I'd like you all to sign up with your I.D. cards. The number of entries is sufficient and stable. We vote first on the proposal of the Gremium. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number five, 181 Members signed in, for 176, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Next up, Prime Minister Jurečka. It proposes to include a new point in the Government's information on pandemic status, pandemic readiness and further progress. First of all, classification. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, we are 182, for 87, against no one. The motion was denied. President Rakušan proposes today... or first proposes inclusion - he called it the situation in Belarus, if I may. Classification of the new item. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered is 183, for 70, versus 6. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Filip proposes printing 117 and 111 - points 40 and 39 on the referendum law - to be included in the second reading block before paragraph 10. It would be a new point 10 and 11. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered 183, for 60, versus 30. The motion was not accepted. President Bartošek proposes the inclusion of a new point of the Revocation of Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council. Classification of the new item. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, we are 183, for 66, against 45. The motion was not accepted. President Faltýnek proposed a press of 503, which is item number 1 at the moment, a bill returned by the Senate - but followed by a counterproposal by Mr Bartoň to be included at 16 o'clock. First of all, we will vote on the counter-proposal to include the 503 press returned to the Senate at 4:00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered is 183, for 60, versus 4. The counterclaim was rejected. And we will vote on the motion by President Faltýnek to put this press at the end of the Senate door block, if I may say so, it would be a new point 9. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered is 184, for 103, versus 65. This proposal was adopted. President Michálek proposes that we press 965, which is an implementing regulation for a rolling mandate, to change the constitution, second and third reading - first of all, the second reading to include... Is it on the show? [[No.]] We don't have it on the agenda, so first we're going to put these two points on the agenda. [[Supplementary to the Organizational Department.]] The deadline expires 27. Five, I've got a clue here. I think it's possible to vote on it. So putting the second and third press reading 965 on the agenda. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered 183, for 129, versus 31. This proposal has been adopted, we have been included. [[15.40 hours]] And the President has now suggested that we include a second reading. 6. after a point classified from Gremia, these are the state honours to make it the second point of the afternoon meeting on 2 June. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 183 Members of Parliament signed in for 116, versus 32. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there was a proposal that we should include the press 956, paragraph 342, the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests, on a firm basis 28. 5th as the first point. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, registered is 183, for 85, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Černochová proposes to include a new point in the proposal for sanctions against Belarus following the Sunday act of state terrorism against a civil aircraft - the inclusion of a new point. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered is 183, for 142, versus 10. The motion was accepted. The point has been placed. We will now vote only on the proposal made by Mr Bžoch to discuss this point today at 18.30. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, logged in 183, for 143, versus 9. The motion was accepted. Mr Luzar proposes the inclusion of a new point of equality of candidates in public media debates. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, registered is 183, for 77, versus 34. The motion was not accepted. Mr Volný merely proposes the inclusion of a new item entitled The Medics petition. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered is 183, for 29, versus 29. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Golasowská proposes that we include the item or the press on compensation for persons damaged by illegal sterilization or in violation of the law, first of all on Wednesday, 2 June, as the first point. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 19, registered is 184, for 67, versus 3. The motion was denied. Alternatively, it proposes that we include this point as the first item on 4 June. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered 184, for 139, versus 4. The motion was accepted. Mrs Hyťhová proposes paragraph 534, the conditions for children to enter schools, to include, alternatively, this Friday at 12 o'clock. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered 184, for 68, versus 1. Motion denied. We will now vote on paragraph 534 firmly this Friday at 13:00. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, logged in 183, for 65, versus 1. Motion denied. There was also a proposal to include paragraph 535, Testing as a condition of entry into all services. The first draft is this Friday at 11:00. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, registered 183, for 63, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. The next alternative is this Friday at 12 o'clock. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered 184, for 68, versus 1. Motion denied. The last proposed alternative is this Friday at 13:00. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25, registered is 184, for 71, against no one. The motion was denied. Mrs Hyťhová also proposes to include a new point of termination of the pandemic emergency. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered 184, for 30, versus 3. Motion denied. Mrs Richterová proposes the 911 press on foster support to include 1164, which is paragraph 15, which means that it should become point 16. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered 184, for 113, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. And now we will vote on the draft agenda for this meeting as a whole. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor. Before voting on the draft programme as a whole, I would like to say that, above all, because the members of the ANO, KSČM and SPD either abstained or voted against, so that we can talk and examine whether Councillor Lipovská, Mrs Lipovská, follows a law which states whether or not to be a member of the Czech Television Council, we will therefore not support the KDU-ČSL programme because I consider it outrageous if Members refuse to deal with whether or not it is governed by the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u57	So two priority rights. President Fiala, then President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u58	Well, I have a completely different opinion than President Bartošek said. I feel that this was about blocking the Czech Television Council's approval not to vote any further, because the parties to the Democratic bloc know that their candidates would not succeed. For this reason, it is necessary to find any excuse to block the election of the Czech Television Council at all. We know one thing that these people end their mandate, and now their mandate ends in May. If we didn't vote and block what the Democratic bloc wants, there would really be a problem that the Czech Television Council would not be able to, or maybe it would be able to do its function further, but certainly in a weakened lineup. So that's why we voted against it. Councilwoman Lipovská was elected democratically in this House, and we are behind the choice that was secret in this House, we are behind it and we will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u59	President Bartoš, Vice-President Filip will prepare, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u60	Before - ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, hello - before voting on the programme as a whole, I would like, perhaps through Mr President, but perhaps directly. I think that the fact that the YES movement, and it was Mr.Faltýnek's proposal, with the help of the SPD and the ČSSD club, has blocked the discussion of the proposal to fix teachers' salary, that it is a sklendrian, because everyone writes in their program goals, how we will increase the prestige of the teaching profession. I found here - even it's written in ich-form - I found here from the program YES: "Investing in our people is the best investment we can make. It is an investment in the future, and the future is created by our children. That's why I want to" - there I wanted to - "to raise wages to 150 percent of their current level and to restore the prestige and respect they deserve" to teachers in four years. We have an opportunity here in the bill that we are discussing, which has already been discussed by both the Senate and the House, which has the support of the Minister of Education, this eternal roundabout, that is to say that they are to be grateful for how much teachers and teachers are to have, to fix firmly on the amount that will increase, and actually to get out of this carousel. When you're talking about someone who has a degree in teaching or wants to teach, this person wants a perspective. The perspective is that I look into the future and I see where my field is, whether it is appreciated enough at a given time and where I will be as a graduate, as a man who has five years of practice, a man who establishes a family, where I will be in those five years. If we give these people every year a choice, if it's discussed, if it's not discussed, and we're actually leaving the whim of raising the educator's salary on what the current financial situation is, if it's a budget, or if it's a priority, it's wrong. We thanked here at the plenary of the House of Health Employees, we thanked here people who helped selflessly during the pandemic. Everyone feels that we thank the educators all the time. I think - and that it was not a simple year for pedagogical workers in the context of these changes closed-opened, distance teaching - if our country is to have a future, and it is also the children mentioned by the Prime Minister in his program that it is really important to return the prestige of the teaching profession. And what does that mean? That if you're going to graduate from the field and vote to start a family, if you're going to teach, or you're going to do some kind of business where there's money, whether it's an advertising segment or some other, it's just for enough high-quality educators, it's alpha omega, that these people are paid, that the heart they're putting in is also properly rewarded to exist so that they can have a family, to live with dignity. So let's finally take that step and I can't see it any other way - the fact that we've postponed the negotiation of the law to the very end - than the obvious not because of this law to discuss it or to cut it completely. [[as:]] So when we look at political party programs again, let's see who once again writes that we should increase the prestige of the pedagogical profession and guarantee them a lasting perspective in the field. Then, if we can do this and have a mechanism that will be depoliticalized - because there is a fixation on the average wage in the Czech Republic - why is there no will in this House to approve this law? She was on our side. Unfortunately, it wasn't found on this weird cut. I think it's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u61	President Filip, then President Bartošek, then Minister Schillerová. All priority rights before the vote on the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u62	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I only have one comment. When someone here calls for compliance with the law on the Rules of Procedure, the law of the Czech Republic, the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and it refers to how we will vote on whether or not we cancel the secret choice of that or that one, he should realize that the fundamental observance of the law in this House is whether or not we discuss or discuss the laws passed by the Senate. If we're gonna suffer this, we're gonna do it this way, of course, we can pre-schedule anything you want to talk about here as your political card, but you'll never fulfill what you swore an oath to do when you joined the mandate to abide by the laws and the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Because the failure to approve or postpone the negotiation of the laws passed by the Senate is a demonstration of how we treat our own rules of procedure to our own obligation to comply with this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u63	President Bartošek, then Minister Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u64	Thank you. For me, a short reaction. Firstly, I have never questioned the democratic choice of Councilwoman Lipovská. Secondly, the board would be able to operate without those members who end the mandate. Thirdly, all I wanted was for us to discuss whether Councillor Lipovsky's conduct is in accordance with the law and then to proceed with the election of other Councillors of Czech Television. I have spoken about this because I wanted the Chamber of Deputies to make it clear for themselves what Members are willing to tolerate and what is no longer within the framework of the behaviour of individual councillors, so that they accept some common sense. So much for why I wanted this point to be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u65	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before the vote on the approval of the agenda for the priority rights meeting, Mrs Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová, Minister of Finance. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u66	Thank you for the floor. I dare to respond to President Bartoš, who quoted very correctly from this government's programming statement. Just when he said "A," I'll say "B." The government's programming statement was completely and completely fulfilled. The percentage you quoted here corresponds to a salary, an average salary of 45,000 educators. The fact that, after increasing the salary of educators, regardless of pandemics on a regular basis, corresponds to an amount of more than 46 000. And you forgot to add that we also promised to increase the salaries of non-teachers. We've increased them, too. This is nominally equivalent to an average of 24,000, and the reality in 2021 is that the actual average salary of non-teaching students is based on 26,000. So much for what you just said. This government has done a great deal for the teacher and has promised what it is committed to. In addition, we continued consistently in pedagogical reform, where we increased the number of teachers. Those are the reservations you have about the number of officials. I am always telling you that the largest number of these are teachers, because we have to ensure regional education reform through half-hours. I can still make a little comment. The fact that we could raise salaries for teachers, teachers and non-teachers was because this Chamber of Deputies approved the budget. She approved the seven budgets I brought here on behalf of the government. But you, you didn't raise your hand for them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u67	Thank you, Madam Vice Prime Minister. I have one more priority right here, Vice-President of the Social Democracy Club, Kateřina Valachová. Before I give her my word, I ask for peace. From 15.40 to 17:00, Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes for his work. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u68	I'll follow up on the previous speaker. Exactly, I would like to say that I am fascinated by the fact that the adjustment of the programme will cause such a situation where it is completely undisputed that there is an increase in the evaluation of teachers and non-teachers in schools. In addition, I want to remind you that the law is to be effective and has an impact only in 2023, so I don't understand the hysteria in terms of ordering points. I am also fascinated by a debate that is taking time to vote on changes in financial matters with the central bank, and thus to improve access for young people to housing and mortgages, or that you are destroying the time to increase the protection of disabled people, also with one of the Senate's returns. It's just a vote on the agenda, not a vote on an increase in teacher salaries or an increase in salaries, so don't confuse the public here. For the last time, I would like to say that thanks to the Minister of Finance and her approach to reform of regional education funding, which a large part of the House here wanted to liquidate a few years ago, what was waiting for 25 years, and what the OECD called for us to do was to end up in the teachers' wallets. So your objections are not entirely appropriate. I would also like to remind you that the Pirates' amendment went through not only thanks to the Pirate Party, it has a few votes in this House, but because it voted with them by social democracy, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, but also by the SPD and all sides of the right-wing part of the House, and only because of this has passed. So your attacks aren't entirely appropriate. I would also like to remind you of what has been said here as clear untruths, and it can be read in the screen record: the Minister of Education said 'no' in all these cases in case of an increase in teacher evaluation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u69	Now Chairman Michálek and then Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club Marek Výborný. I hope we can get to the vote on the agenda. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, through the President, the President, Dr Bartoš, did not talk about the problem with increasing salaries, but about the fact that you are still promising in the electoral programmes that you will increase salaries before each election. You keep making promises, promises, and promises again instead of setting up a system in which these people have a long-term perspective. Because in order to draw up the best educational system for our children to be successful as a country, we need to give the nation a long-term perspective, to make sure that teachers have good money if they choose the profession of a teacher. This isn't about you promising higher salaries before every election. It's not helping anyone, it's just concreteting the current state of affairs. If you want to attract high-quality educators, you have to give them a long-term future, and you can do that by guaranteeing them that wages will grow long-term, that they will valorize. And then people who decide whether to become an educator or whether to go to another profession will choose a teaching profession. That's the way it's supposed to be. That's a system approach, not that you're gonna be promising pay raises again. Of course, we did not vote for budgets, of course we did not vote for those last budgets that have record deficits and do not put together a revenue and expenditure page. I don't think that's an argument that would respond to what President Bartoš was dealing with here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u71	Thank you. Now Marek Výborný, Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club. I hope you'll be the last to exercise priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, Madam Vice Prime Minister, colleagues, colleagues, do you know the old Czech saying about the run-down house? I have to say that this has been completely filled with black and white, because if the government coalition of the ANO and the ČSSD really were interested in fulfilling not only its programming points, as has been said here, but also the government's programming statement, it is possible to fix here the valorisation policy for teachers' salaries, for which we are all here, the SPOLU coalition as one man, voted and supported, and at this point it was the first point, the backs of the Senate. It was very simple, it could have been supported. It's just a search for an alibi by the Treasury Secretary, why not, if possible, support this certainty, ideally throw the entire amendment to the Education Worker Act off the table. It is irresponsible and it is really a message to you, teachers, teachers, but also to other school workers that it is actually something completely different. I think it's irresponsible. If we really were to talk about teachers' salaries, I don't see any reason to push it to the end just so this law doesn't get discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-000-000.u73	We have a vote before us on the agenda of the meeting as a whole. I'm gonna check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In the vote number 28, we will vote on the 104th meeting following the changes that the House has adopted. I think I'll just wait a little bit longer for the number of applicants to settle. Okay. I've started voting number 28 and I'm asking who's in favour of the draft agenda? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 28, out of 172 in favour of 112, against 46. The motion was accepted. So we can start filling the agenda. We'll be the first to discuss
