ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges,judges and state administration of courts and on the amendment of certain other laws (laws on courts and judges), as amended, and other related laws / House press 630/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, his resolution being delivered as House press 630/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán among us, and I ask that the plaintiffs for a resolution... Excuse me, I welcome Senator Tomáš Golán, Jaroslav Doubrava... Mr. Senator Holásek. Now I've got the right information. So please ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Even in this case, it is a government proposal for an amendment to the law, this time about courts and judges, it was submitted for 2019 in accordance with the Government's legislative work plan, it follows the Government's programming declaration and there was a recommendation from the Group of States against the corruption of GRECO. Its main objective is to establish a uniform transparent system of selection of judges, judicial officials, as well as a more detailed regulation of the secondary activities of the Judges and a revision of the Institute of Criminal Procedure. In the area of selection of judges, the aim was to unify the preparation of candidates for judicial office within the institute of the judicial candidate, which follows the successful composition of the expert judicial examination. The practice of a judicial candidate can also be attended by persons who have other legal practice and professional examination. Changes will also occur in the field of judicial officials. Their selection will be re-run through competitions that we have become used to and proved to be successful. The provisions relating to ancillary activities shall be extended in particular to the obligation to notify ancillary activities to the President of the competent court. As regards the second-in-command, there has been incorporated a limitation of the proportion of the members of the second-in-command in criminal proceedings. This proposal was preceded by a whole cycle of round tables, where we discussed this with the judges, the Judging Union and the top experts. This proposal was approved by the Chamber of Deputies at third reading on 22 January 2021 and then discussed by the Senate. As regards the outcome in the Senate, there were amendments concerning three areas, including the introduction of a transitional provision governing the conditions for applicants who had already received selection procedures for the post of judge, but were not appointed until the amendment came into force, the abolition of the proposed limitation on the seats as a second point and the clarification of the conditions for the side-entry of applicants from other legal professions to the selection procedure for the post of judge. As a result, I would like to express my support for the Government's proposal in the version returned to the Senate, and I would like this version of the Government's amendment to be approved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u3	Thank you and please have Senator Holásek take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, honourable Members, I would like to briefly recapitulate the amendments adopted by the Senate, with the fact that the law has been returned to the Chamber of Deputies, it has already been said here by the Minister. Laws relate to legislative accuracy, better interpretation, they concern side access to the exercise of the duties of a judge, the question of alternates is addressed, which is currently not satisfactorily addressed. It is a lot of question of conditions, application and remuneration, so this regulation gives the Ministry of Justice space for further adjustment of the position of members of the Czech legal system. I would certainly like to say that the amendments were prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you for your support from the Minister and I would also like to ask you to accept the bill as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u5	Thank you. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Jan Farský, want to comment on the Senate resolution? It's not, so I'm opening up a debate that I don't have anyone registered to... [[Gong.]] Mr. Marek Benda is registered here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u6	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. I may not be stalling for long, but I would not like to see the law on courts and judges here, which is one of the most important standards, run through the Chamber of Deputies in the version returned to the Senate, I would say almost unconscious. I think the Senate has made some changes that are slightly useful regarding the position of second chair. Unfortunately, he did not agree in a more fundamental way and did not think about the position of the administration of the courts and judges. I have been here before, at first, second and third reading, pointing out that the concept that is elected means management proceedings of the court where the President leaves, or vice-chairmen leave with their chairman and, in fact, the President becomes a full ruler, because all the Vice-Presidents, within three months of taking up office, exchange that I do not consider to be happy. I continue to say that I do not consider this solution to be happy. In my opinion, it does not belong to the judicial system, and for this reason we will not vote neither in favour of the House nor in favour of the Senate version, because the concept of the administration of courts, whether regional, regional or supreme, is not chosen correctly in our view. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-003-003.u7	Well, thank you. I'll ask for peace in the Chamber, but the level of noise is quite high. [[Gong.]] If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? There is no interest, so we will proceed to the vote pursuant to § 97, par. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 6/2002 Coll., on courts, judges,judges and state administration of courts and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House press 630/5, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 630/6." [[Law on courts and judges]] I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 34, registered by 161 Members, for 125, against 22. The motion was accepted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. I thank the Senator, the Minister, and we will proceed to discuss another point returned to the Senate, and that is
