ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 103rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with identification cards. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 43 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, May 6th of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Members of Jan Čižinský and Members of Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no other proposal, so I will engage and proceed to the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number one, 101 Members registered, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed members of Jan Čižinský and Jiří Valenta's Member Members to the 103rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Jaroslav Martinů apologizes for today's meeting of the 103rd meeting, for reasons of work, further apologizes for today's meeting from 15 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for health and family reasons of Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, further apologizes Mr Jan Zahradník from 15 a.m. to 16 a.m. for reasons of employment, further apologises Mrs Olga Richterová for Pavel of Blažek, and also apologizes Mr Radek Koten from 15 a.m. to 16 a.m. to the end of the sitting day for reasons of employment. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 103rd meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 103rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 2 registered 118 Members, for 89, against 7. The agenda has been approved. We will now proceed to the first item on the show:
