ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u1	528. Graduation and final exam information 2021 I ask that the appellant take the floor on this point, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, who, if she agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u2	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, fellow ministers, Minister, allow me to mention the graduation point 2021, which I have included as the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, and with your support from all of you, and for that I thank you, it has also been achieved after a week that we are beginning to discuss it. Let me remember a little before I get to the detailed description of the information that led me to this point a year ago, when the pandemic hit us, and when the Chamber of Deputies, even though it was actually only in the order of a few weeks, so then, colleagues and colleagues, let us remember, we had a very serious debate on the topic of administrative graduation. I would also like to remind you of the summer holidays where you, the various MPs, initiated the creation of rules for distance education. I also want to remind you that this was rejected by the Ministry of Education at the time. In both cases, both in the spring and summer, two amendments to the school law were introduced, both in a legislative emergency, and we, as Members of Parliament, had really had hours to get acquainted with and approve these changes, which had a major impact on the right to education of children, pupils and students. I want to remind you that we do not have an emergency at the moment, but we have a pandemic situation due to a political decision. And I want to remind you that the current epidemiological situation is worse than it was last spring or last summer. So much for an introduction. I would also like to remind you from the perspective of math adjustments that we are in an objective situation where this year's 2021 seniors did not because of COVID-19, but because of a number of turbulent changes, whether by law or decree, they had different conditions for concluding their secondary education every quarter of a year. I am referring to several changes in the adjustments to the graduation exams both by law or by decree, which - as I say, if we repeat this - were to be surprised by the quarter of the school. I will remind you that, still in November and December, expert associations of directors sharply criticised last-minute changes regarding language arrangements. All of this should be taken into account in today's graduation meeting 2021. Now, to the point why I took the liberty, and thank you once again for your support, to include the current Graduation point 2021. You all know that in February we had a passionate political debate and a gunfight between the Prime Minister and the Minister of Education on official math. At the time, it was not only me, but most experts called such a step premature, with it being a surrender to the end of education, even in a difficult covid year. However, even then, and I think we were in agreement on this, I have set and formulated the conditions for a successful start or termination, if you wish, of the Maturit 2021. One of the basics was the renewal of practice in our specialized schools and schools. I note that all the plans of the Ministry in the past months, which, however, could not be enforced three or four times, were planned to restore practice. Then it happened that a number of school directors and school directors did not modify the practical parts of their maths either in terms of content or shifted them. I note that this was because they expected a renewal of practice. They did not receive any new deadline for adjusting the practical parts of the exams or shifts from the Ministry. I also remind you that the Minister of Education has the will of Parliament, and that is the main reason for the point at today's meeting of the House, the extraordinary powers conferred on him by Parliament, referred to us as the legislature, in order to perform and ensure that graduations, albeit influenced by coronavirus, can take place successfully. So now to the situation in which we are in, and the starting point. Currently from 19 April 2021 - I remind you that I tried to include this point before this date, but I failed - since 19 April 2021, practical parts of the graduation exams have started. Secondary schools and teaching centres were based on the basic conditions for the renewal of practice in schools before the beginning of the maths, or even the renewal of the teaching of at least the final years of secondary schools. Let us remember, colleagues, the dates: beginning of March, first week in March, third week in March, 12 April, 19 April. The restoration of practice did not take place on a single day before the start of practical part of the maths. The Minister of Health said last week in the House that the return to practice is not certain, the more the return of students to secondary schools and the renewal of the presentation class. An earlier announcement of return to practice has not been completed. As I said here, the dates were due in March and April. Currently, the government has decided to renew its practice on 26 April 2021. In a number of cases it happened that it was already after graduating from the practical part of mathematics that this had already happened after graduating from the practical part of mathematics or just a few days before the so-called shifted term. Here I am referring to the fact that the data that I have collected from the regions and the captains and the captains of our regions and which I have received in writing show that even where shifts are counted in the terms of the graduation exams, some of the data of the regions that were more detailed show that these are the order of days. The MŠMT did not provide the school committee with specific information on the situation in the field of graduation and final examination adjustment or alternative development scenario in the event of failure to restore practice or day-to-day teaching as planned. The Committee asked for the submission of scenarios, including the Ministry of Crisis. Unfortunately, data from the founders of secondary schools confirm the original survey of student organizations, whether the Czech High School Union or the NE:BRZO initiative, on adjustments and/or non-statutory maths. A significant part of the schools did not postpone or modify the exam. The counties confirm that no one has requested this data by last week. Also, the expert associations of school directors confirmed this fact to me about a week ago. Some of them reached out to the combined schools at the end of last week. Even these data confirm that despite the annual outage of practice, many schools did not adjust the exams. Here I would like to point out that from all this information and consultation of the parties to the management professional associations, as well as the data provided by the regions, there are significant differences, say, in the gymnasial branch of secondary education and in the branch of vocational education. At the same time, I must inform - I note that this information is not validated by the regional parties, this information, given that the practical parts of the maths started on Monday, is only sounded from the information of student organisations, but will undoubtedly be confirmed by the regions or the Ministry in the following days. However, starting Monday, students have announced higher levels of failure and pointing to high failures. I note that this information, unlike the previous information, is not validated otherwise than by the information of the parties to the student organisations, but will undoubtedly happen in the coming days. At the moment, I think we should work on a majority consensus. In response to this situation, the Houses fail to adjust their graduation and final exams in combination with the non-renewing of their practice in secondary schools and schools according to the plan of February or March 2021. We should also evaluate whether the renewal of practice on 26 April 2021 is sufficient for the acquisition of skills or repetition, for the successful management of the annual lack of practice for students who have completed high school studies ahead of them. We should also strive to ensure that students fail the practical parts of the graduation exam without delay. [[12.10 hours]] So as far as the specific data provided by the regions are concerned, I note that these are currently half of the regions, that is, I consider these data to be consistent and valid. I note that it is precisely in the light of the fact that there is a significantly different situation of impact on the renewal of practice in schools against the gymnasium branch of secondary education against the branch of vocational secondary education, and I say this throughout the week, namely the branch of vocational secondary education, namely from the half of 321 schools that undergo practical graduation here. I mean, in the case of secondary schools, the change in the term - yes, and again I say, it is almost half of the regions - concerns 49.5%, the change in the term 'no' is 50.5%. I note that gymnasiums are not included there, and this is on purpose, because we are dealing with the impact on the renewal of practice. Secondary schools, changes in test content: in turn - change in test content "yes" is currently related on the basis of data 39,6 %, change in test content "no" 60,4 %. As far as this situation is concerned, I consider it significant, including the fact that some regions have not provided detailed information because they collect it, but have already responded in the general responses and responses that there is no need for use in their region or almost no use of a shift - I note voluntary shift, and that is the problem - part of the practical examinations, for example, for July or August, and refer to the organisational-personal and material difficulties with which schools or founders are to deal. Some schools, although originally announced that they would collect the data, and I will believe that this is not because of the ongoing debate here in the House, are now calling on them not to send specific questionnaires to the schools. However, almost half of the regions are sufficient to account for the ratio, plus as we collected the data, the ratio did not change significantly, as the regions grew. I therefore believe that this data, too, justifies this House's action, and that we should respond. Proposals for solutions: of course, there can be a number of solutions. I have announced that I will propose resolutions, colleagues and colleagues. It's at your disposal. The resolution, as it sounds, I have read it on the agenda, of course I will repeat again. In particular, I would like to proceed with this point ending in the minimum agreement of the Chamber of Deputies on the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government, in view of the fact that practical teaching in secondary schools will also be started in a limited regime until 26 April 2021, since three dates for the return of graduates and pupils of the final years to the presentation period have not been met, taking into account the fact that the information provided on 14 April by the Chamber of Deputies by Professor Arenberger of Health revealed that it is not clear at that time when and whether the presentation in secondary schools will be renewed and, in the light of the serious reports on the negative effects of the current situation on the psychics of pupils and students, the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic has imposed on the Czech Republic I. ensuring additional adjustment of the practical part of the graduates and the additional amount of time limits for the school year 2020-2020 following admission procedures for universities; II. without delay start legislative work on the preparation of the amendment of Act No. 561/2004 Coll., the Education Act, in the sense that, on the basis of the choice of a pupil, it is possible to use the average of stamps as an alternative to graduation examinations in justified cases; III. submit to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a comprehensive report on the measures planned by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic and the cooperating institutions aimed at balancing the effects of pandemics on the education of children, pupils and students, including financial collateralisation of these measures." As I have already mentioned, colleagues, I would consider this to be the minimum result of our negotiations today, and I ask you to consider the support of this resolution. Now allow me to talk more in detail about possible proposals for solutions. The proposals for solutions can, of course, be an immediate use of the extraordinary powers of the Minister of Education, although of course we all realize that at the moment these authorisations are no longer as effective as if they were used in a situation where the practice was not renewed and at the same time it was clear that the deadlines for adjusting the practical parts of the material content or also from the point of view of shifting the deadline had expired. That's the first thing. Second thing. Regardless of the possibilities of extraordinary qualifications of the Minister of Education with regard to the situation, and therefore the issue of corrective deadlines, or any follow-up to the possibility of taking up the employment of students from vocational schools and teaching institutions, as well as the follow-up to the admission procedures of universities. Here I point out that information on the failure of students at the beginning of the week is also accompanied by the fact that schools currently have one revision date in September, which, of course, does not fit for employment in June or July, while this does not fit the current situation in the admission procedures of universities. Also, in view of the number of unsuccessful students, it is announced that these terms are insufficient from a numerical point of view, and there is a concern that at least in September these corrective terms will be sufficient. I note here that I realise that there is a large part of the possibilities here, let's also say, on the shoulders of school directors, but I would appreciate the Minister of Education if he charted this situation and proposed measures relating to all vocational schools, regardless of how the particular director would proceed, so as to make it clear that in all cases this situation will be addressed. Another possibility is, of course, and this is a more radical option, the amendment of the school law or the extraordinary covid law as we did last year, in both cases, of course, in the regime of legislative emergency. I note here that as far as the legislative emergency is concerned, I have noted the considerations that we are not in a legislative emergency. As I mentioned at the beginning of my introductory words on this point, it's not very true. It's coming from objective data I mentioned. Epidemiologically, we're worse off than we were in the spring or the summer of last year. As far as legislative emergency is concerned, the conditions are clear - interference with rights. I think the right to the education of our children, pupils and students has a sufficient degree of weight. It is not possible to ignore both the epidemiological situation and the partial possibility of being affected by the right to health. I am not going to talk about the fact that we announced a state of legislative emergency here yesterday in case of so-called insularity and raising the infirmary, and I believe that the Minister of Education will not place any increase in the infirmary above the right to the education of seniors or children, pupils and students at the time of covido. So from a legislative emergency point of view, I have no doubt that the government can act. Of course, every such proposal is decided by the House and there is no doubt that the legislative emergency is met. As a lawyer, I have been dealing with this situation for a long time, and I would like to point out that, of course, I have consulted the state of legislative emergency with key legislation and lawyers, among other things, in the area of constitutional law, so I am prepared to rely on them, of course. After all, the government's practice from the point of view of the House's legislative emergency and practice over the last year merely confirms that such an obstacle does not exist. The third point, and I would not like to forget this: any adjustments, whether by special authorizations or by law, must be accompanied by the processing of a national system of compensation for the impact on education as a result of COVID-19. I must say, colleagues and colleagues, that I am fascinated by the basically political battle and competition about how the graduation report will be written, by whom it will be signed and how it will be done, however, the zero debate is that practice has been shut down objectively for a year, which must have a major impact especially on technical and technological disciplines, which is the key to the future of our country, and no one is talking about how these skills will be achieved by pupils and how they will be verified. It's basically nothing to do with finishing the graduation exam. This debate is zero, and I think it's hypocrisy, because if we were really interested in the quality of education, we'd be interested in that, too. So I also point out that any adjustments must be accompanied in this way. Proposals for legislative solutions in a legislative emergency, adjustments to maths and final examinations may vary. There is an austerity fast legislative solution in the form of an extraordinary authorisation of the government in the school law, but also a detailed regulation of the maths in the extraordinary covido law or in the school law. I note that with regard to consultation with education experts and constitutional law, everyone is clearly inclined to agree that it would be appropriate to regulate these rules either in the school law or in the extraordinary covid law specifically and that we would probably not be able to stand up by authorisation, even by authorisation through the government, if we quickly approved it and preferred speed. Of course, as a lawyer, I fully accept this conclusion and I am aware of it. [[12.20 hours]] The content of a possible graduation adjustment from my point of view should be, in particular, to deal with it - and I am not saying official at all, because I think that this topic has been politicised, and it would be good to leave this concept at all - but let's say, if we objectively evaluate the effects on vocational education, and especially technical and technological disciplines, so that the impact has occurred, we should seriously talk about the possibility of replacing it by choosing some kind of completion of secondary education and talking about some alternative optional form of graduation so that, for example, we average the grades, but for achieving that skills, competences and so on, they will be supplemented, leveled up and that it will definitely occur. I note that alternative optional graduations, according to examples in other European countries, can be built, as I have already mentioned, on the average of stamps, but alternatives can also be chosen. Such an optional way to compensate satisfactorily for the differences in the impact of COVID-19 on education in the gymnasium branch of secondary education. As I say, the dates in this case are not related to the grammar schools that I've been talking about all week, and it is for the simple reason that it is clear that the annual loss of attendance teaching has a different impact on education in theoretical subjects and a different impact on training in practical subjects. I am definitely stressing once again that if something like this were to happen, this must be accompanied by a clear legal requirement with the possibility of passing a standard graduation for a period of three years. We have already had a similar adjustment in the past, not from the point of view of some administrative adjustment, but at all the possibility of supplementing the graduation exam. These extraordinary legislative measures, as I have already mentioned, must accompany the National Plan system - equalisation of the effects of education, and this should in particular focus on the equal opportunities of students to complement these skills and competences, which, for objective reasons, did not allow distance learning to be obtained, whether the efforts of our teachers, masters and directors were extraordinary and whatever form of completion of secondary education. Dear colleagues, you know that in quotes in times of peace, i.e. without pandemic and COVID-19, I am in favour of increasing the level of conclusion of secondary education, increasing skills, competences and knowledge that are being verified in the case of pupils. However, I believe that the last year of the pandemic and the failure of the practice and its failure to restore to the start of the practical parts of the maths really justifies either the extraordinary measures of an executive nature or the legislative nature of the law in order to ensure fair conditions for the completion of the graduation exams 2021. I believe that together with you, we will find a solution and a match. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u3	I am now launching a general debate in which I have several Members. However, Mr Rais, you will have to wait, because with priority rights, I have here, under the authority of the Pirates Club, Mr Lukáš Bartona, who has the right to give the opinion of the Pirate Party Club with priority rights. And then after that... I have a factual remark from Patrik Nacher. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Oh, so the system works badly here, because even Mr. Dolínek here has a point of fact. So it's both double to the previous point. Well, you see, I've got it at this point, so there's been some mistake. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On behalf of the pirát, I must say that it is crucial for us this year for students not to pay for government measures that de facto have not made it to secondary schools throughout the year, including half a year before, almost 1.5 years. We certainly welcome the benefits that have been achieved in the area of the common part of the maths. We also welcome the fact that in the profiling part of math, i.e. in the part that the school is in charge and in the gesture of the school, the directors had the power to adjust this part and adapt the current situation. At the same time, we consider it unacceptable for the math to try a course that has not really been awakened or fully taught by the covideo measures. The big debate is here especially for the practical exam. So I asked the teachers who reflected this, and those who asked me, they confirmed to me that it was of course not in their interest to throw away students on something they really didn't teach, and they prepared their graduation exams so that they could handle them so that they didn't have any effect on distance teaching. In the same way, I found that the Minister of Education called for this director, and perhaps he will. I also called the CZESHA Association, which brings together secondary vocational schools, and I asked if they were ready to go to seniors who were in distance education. Director Zajíček, Chairman of CZESHA, confirmed to me that, of course, they also called on all the directors to modify the profile section so that students would not be beaten to the point that they were at distance teaching. However, he admitted, of course, that it may happen that some director will not hear - so he doesn't know about any, but it can happen. So I also called Dr. Schejbalová from the Association of Gymnasium Directors and asked how they were at the Gymnasium, if she really modified the content of the profile section of graduation, so that students would not be beaten on the fact that they had distance classes. The principal has confirmed to me that all the grammar schools she's been in contact with have agreed to do so. At grammar school there is no problem with the practical exam because it is not there, but of course it cannot confirm that some director of grammar school would not do this - it can happen, she doesn't know anything about it. I got a call from the principal about how they edited the profile section of graduation. They've chosen many ways. If I mention only the director of the Secondary Industrial School of Mechanical and Electrical Engineering from České Budějovice, he used the measures and organizes study groups for practical instruction to help students as much as possible to pass the profiling part of their graduation, and of course also edits the questions and guarantees that the school has prepared students fully for their graduation. I tried a little bit to find the school that didn't prepare the students or want to make arrangements that would put students at a disadvantage through distance education. I even looked at the e-mails. On social media, my colleague Valachová launched such an agenda and invited students to send us emails about how practical exams are taking place at their schools, because they have already started to take place. I got one e-mail, too, and I was pretty worried about it. If I can quote a piece, it's an e-mail from Tuesday, came to us at 10:30, here I see Baxa, Okamura, Fiala... There's a lot of Members here who got him, "Hello. In view of today's House of Maths meeting, I would like to write you my story as this year's senior." Something, something... "I'm in vocational school and I had a practical exam yesterday. My job was to make a chemical solution and then analyze it, dismantle it, unite it with other solutions. But it was a slightly more explosive reaction that we were supposed to be able to tame. But we really didn't have any solutions at home, and so we all, 28 seniors in our class, did this for the first time. I think you know how it turned out. Twenty-four students failed." [[12.30 hours]] Mr. Secretary, 24 seniors in 28, that's a pretty alarming number. Practical rehearsal. So I wanted to talk to the headmaster of a school who must be a psychopath if he lets such a thing happen. The problem of these emails, such as this, that they students are signed, but they won't write what schools they're from, however, Uncle Google and social media tell a lot about them, so I found out from which school, even the phone number, and I called the student. The student was slightly surprised. She confirmed that she wrote the e-mail. It turned out to be from the Prague Trade Academy. Of course, the first question was, is that what you're doing at the Prague Trade Academy is a practical test of mixing solutions? So he was the story of her friend, confessed which is chemical from Masaryk High School, and he said it happened. Well, let's go for a little lap. Director of Masaryk High School Chemical is Mr. Engineer Zajíček, Chairman of CZESHA. I called him last Friday, I'll call him Tuesday. The principal, when I read him part of the e-mail that was going on at his school, he didn't believe his ears at all. As I described the exam, he turned to it. Of course, they have a practical exam at the school, as part of the exam are laboratory work, however, because the students did not have access to the laboratory, the laboratory work this year is omitted. While they normally worked on instruments for two hours, then received data from them, evaluated and analysed the solutions, this year they approach the fact that laboratory work is missing, received already measured data and analysed the solution, which I consider to be a helpful step towards students. There's no discrimination by distance teaching. So I asked him, too, but if he really didn't get away with the 24 out of 28 seniors. It was very startling for him there, because the practical exams will not be until next week. We had a bit of fun, but I was wondering why the student wrote me such e-mails, so I still called the director of her business academy, because she also described tragic online teaching, where I can quote from her e-mail: "Our distance teaching also looks like teachers will turn on an hour, and either they talk to us casually about where they were this weekend, or they play movies, they refuse to tell us the fabric, because we have the ability of self-study as seniors. Doesn't this look like a comedy to you? The school management refuses to communicate." The director of Žák, the director of the Karlín Business Academy, was also very surprised when I asked how online teaching took place at his school. On-line teaching - even as a director organized hospitalization, attended by a citizen online teaching, fully standing behind his teachers. Even because he cared about his students being satisfied, so he held evaluation questionnaires, sent evaluation to students - 60 percent responded, 90 percent of them very positive. He had some serious comments, he was going to deal with them. In order not to address only students who are afraid to say anything about their teachers, he also approached their parents. He also received comments from those, even though you did not reflect on some. As an example, he told me that it was a reminder that three to four on-line lessons a day were not enough for parents, plus homework afterwards. I therefore agree with him that this is sufficient. By the way, the Director also has a practical part at his business academy, a practical exam in the profiling part of graduation, and it is a test from accounting when students in this part come to the program, they get a role, they have to calculate accounting in the program. Since she was a distance teacher, so of course they also discussed how students remove the handicap distance teaching. They have come to the conclusion that they do not have the opportunity to practice in the program, so the current practical exam at his school will be purely written, when students receive a tax return and fill out a tax return. Since such a practical test is not actually a restriction, it does not consider it necessary to change any term of the practical examination at all. After all, the director Zajíček does not need to change the term of the practical exam, because he does not need the practical training when he adjusts the practical exam. And that's what a lot of directors used to call me. By the way, fill out the tax return - I filed it a month ago, maybe I'd also pass a practical exam at the business academy. So much for this e-mail. So I'm not saying that all the e-mails from students -- we get a lot of e-mails about how the exams are a burden to them and that they're afraid that they have stress, I fully understand that. I'm not saying they're fake e-mails, they're clearly telling human stories. But I got one single e-mail about practical exams, and I found out it wasn't true. What I'm interested in isn't that I want to persect the student here, I deliberately didn't tell her name, I didn't tell the principal of her school her name, I asked colleagues who got the same e-mail not to do it, that's certainly not the point and it wouldn't have any meaning at all, but I'm interested in the motivation of the student, why the students are doing this, why they're writing us these e-mails about how horrible it is and how they complain about their school, to which when I call, I'm going to learn the exact opposite. One of the things is certainly the challenge of my colleague Valachová, who launched a social networking campaign with these students and others, and this is what the student herself told me on the phone, is the NE:BRZO initiative. It's an initiative that fights for official graduations. Besides, if we look at her profile on Instagram, it's very interesting. In fact, he devotes himself to calling on students to write these stories to Members. The next circuit there is swearing at the Minister, and the next circuit there are comments calling on Mrs Valachová almost as a goddess. She's the only one who stood up for them if she were a secretary, it would look completely different. I would remind you a little bit of the recent debate a year ago, a year and a half ago, which we had here about the maths where her attitude was completely opposite. But that's how anyone can turn around, not just a folklore. [[Fun.]] What's important, but what leads students to fight for it is stress and fear of graduation, and that's what I'm hearing. Why do we have a graduation exam here that has such an effect? Not that students at the end of their studies aren't supposed to handle a certain amount of stress, but did the school prepare them for it? Is it really necessary for such a serious test at the end of the study, and isn't it necessary during the course of the study? But these are questions not for the current graduation solution, but in general, which we have had here several times and have tried to discuss the future of graduation here in the Chamber of Deputies. We had a round table with the Minister. Unfortunately, then came the time of covido and debates about the future of maths with us quieted down a little bit, something else was being dealt with. So for me: I would like to encourage the students to have the easiest conclusion as possible, especially in order not to pay in any way for them to be distance teaching, but unfortunately, from the phone calls, from the information I have verified, schools are coming forward, discussing with students. And if that's not the case, and I'm calling on all the teachers and directors to discuss with their students, to assure them that when they go to graduation, there won't be things that would handicap them because of distance teaching. [[12.40 hours]] Of course, some students don't graduate, like they always do. But I'd say it's the students who wouldn't normally do it in normal times. However, I am not offended that graduation is something very important, especially the one in common. But that's a debate on another subject, that's graduation in general. To the resolution tabled by Mrs Valachová: I have read it. [[Mr Bartoň sighed]] On the first point, I would partly agree: to ensure an additional adjustment of the practical part of math, now I do not know whether practical or - practical exams about, not in part - but I would not agree with that, but to add sufficient corrective deadlines in the school year following the admission procedures at universities, we also called after that. It's a good thing for students to have corrective dates. It's not a reduction in claims, but it's a possibility that if something happens on that one date, it'll follow the next one quickly. If practical trials were to be carried out that are already underway, I think we would do even more evil than good. Unfortunately, the second point cannot be agreed with. In my opinion, my Member has absolutely poor data which cannot be derived from what she is making. And, of course, we agree with the third point. It presented a comprehensive report on the upcoming measures of the Ministry of Education, and it is already included in the Education Committee, where I would like it to be discussed, because there is much more room than here in plenary, and that is the way. There's no way I'm gonna show you that I can do anything, even if I can't do it. The way is: we have to compensate them, make up for the fact that they didn't learn something, and they didn't learn it, for example, because they had distance teaching, that they had limited options, but that's the compensation. The goal is for students to have knowledge, competence, skills, not to have paper at the end of the paper that they can do something, even if they can't do it. So much for me. Thank you. [[Bartoň, outside the microphone, is speaking to another Member who has come to the speaker's desk.]] I'm still sorry for the inappropriate remark on KDU-ČSL, which I didn't mean.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u5	Now we have a number of factual points. Mr. Karel Rais will just have to wait. I know you've been waiting a long time. [[Ambassador Rais from the position: I'm on the deed.]] You're on de facto, but x-th in order. So, first of all, Mr Petr Dolínek, that's probably the misunderstanding that popped up here. But further it is certainly okay, so Kateřina Valachová, Vlastimil Válek, Tereza Hyťhová, Karel Rais, Helena Válková, Marek Výborný in order of factual remarks. Kateřina Valachová is the first to make a point of fact and Mr Vlastimil Válek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u6	Very quickly, Mr President, I must respond to my previous speaker, but really quickly. Mr Bartoň has turned fifth over nine. The important thing is that at a time of peace does not want quality and high standard of math, but at a time of war, it means covidu, will cross the seniors after they are started practical parts without adjustments and no shift after a year of failure of practice, and will be at once, and there is that turn of opinion, I am completely consistent, insisting that here they will graduate as in 2019. That they do not correspond to the dates, as he dared to say, from the point of view of the motion for a resolution. I consider this a scandal. Just here in front of me or after me, I'm sorry, he's stunned what I've said before in my opening words. The directors, the honourable directors, whom I otherwise appreciate and cooperate with, the school directors' association, confirmed to me 10 days ago - I say - they didn't have the data. We didn't. And here I present the data, the hard data of half the county sent by the governor. This means, Mr President, by your means, for what reason does my previous speaker dare question this is a scandal, including bringing owls to Athens. Suddenly we learn here that he would also have an idea for rehearsals, deadlines, or that he would also have an idea for comparing the competences and skills and knowledge of seniors, but he remained silent as a fish when he did not liquidate his graduation exam and standard of high-quality education of our public education and neglected that private schools, we will learn it again from his Facebook profiles, it is his number one including home education, it is his long-term opinions. And that didn't bother him when he took out his graduation exam last year, that there were 40% of seniors' failure in seniors. He wasn't interested in quality. But now, at the time of the covid, he's making fun of seniors graduating at the time of the covide, when we shut off school for a year. They didn't turn them off themselves. And as for what he said here. [[Time.]] Yes, thank you, Mr President. [[Time.]] I'm going to release a counter for other factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u7	Time. Well, I'll make sure of it, the release for the others, that's okay. So please, I'm gonna turn this place around. Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear here, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will prepare herself and then Karel Rais. So please, Mr. Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u8	So I took the tech or this one so I could sort of moralize myself and not abuse the priority right. I'd like to say, so we don't forget that if a large part of the practical education went out, the seniors will have the same problem next year, next year, the practical education will just be missing. Now that I've been counting, I've been teaching at 11 schools in my life, from high school to medical school to vocational school, and I've got the pedagogical minimum, duly completed sloppy exam, in case someone happens to be, and I have to say that these schools often have very limited and limited money for practical teaching. I would consider it very correct to have a debate here - I hope the Ministry has a plan on how they will eventually increase their budgets in order to catch up on the annual deficit. When I marry - hello young Tehlárová - like teaching in high school where they learn gastronomic courses, they are basically totally screwed for a year and they just have to cook a lot of lunches. And I would like to make a very big contribution to the fact that we should separate the possible failure of some particular school, and so then there should be the leadership of the ministry and so on very hard, from, say, the systemic problem, if this system problem is, let's, let's solve it, I can't identify it yet. I see as a systemic problem that the same outages of practical teaching will have next year and the next year, and I look forward to the next performance, that in some way they will develop it rather in a professional way without any emotions, without any unnecessary effects, because here we are talking about our future, which our youngsters certainly are, and I think my previous speaker did not have to apologize, because I really understood that "lovers change their minds and attitudes" which is true, for lovers it happens. Not with others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u9	Mrs Hyťhová Hyťhová will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that this whole debate is, in my opinion, a complete farce, even because every time this point comes up, I don't mean that at all to the promoter, but there's just no room for debate, there's never going to be a resolution, and I'm going to say it completely straight: it's about nothing. So I think that most of all students would deserve instead of our flaming clock speeches here to know what they're graduating from, when they're graduating, so there's no media firefight between Minister Plaga and Prime Minister Babiš, who's promoting official graduations. You should already agree on this government, I mean in the direction, through Mr President, to Minister Plag and the Prime Minister, of what our students will graduate from and when. It is not possible for us to address the fifth point of graduation here in the Chamber of Deputies in mid-April and never get to do anything. I would also like to mention here that tomorrow at 1 p.m. I have a fixed point here, namely the terms of entry to schools, and I believe that even though Mr. Plaga told me a moment ago that he would not be here, I believe that this was just such a bad joke and that he will really come tomorrow at 1 p.m. because parents and citizens are waiting for his answers. So I firmly believe he'll come tomorrow and change his mind, because why is he here as Minister of Education? Well, for our citizens, for parents, for teachers who are waiting for answers. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u11	Now, with the factual remark of Mr Karel Rais. Helena Válková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u12	Thank you. Since I've been logged in twice for a meeting and I've never had a turn, and now it's clear that the third time will not work out, so I'd like to say a few basic opinions. If the state helps everyone, it could also help seniors. I see that way in helping change measures of a general nature, which means essentially change the decree. And since I'm limited in time, I'm gonna leave the whole speech I had set up, maybe for tomorrow. And I would just say the motion for a resolution that we have as members of the YES: "I. The House asks the Minister of Education to allow students to obtain an official graduation in cases regulated by the internal regulation of the Ministry of Education. II. The House asks the Minister of Education to adjust measures of a general nature in relation to the reliefs of this year's maths, in particular for the benefit of students from distance studies. III. The House takes note of the Minister of Education's information on the plan to compensate for inequalities in education in the following period', although I know that this will still be on the Education Committee and that we will be discussing this. So it bothers me, if I can still time, so I resent the systemic imbalance in a measure of a general nature, when one part of the distancemen can, is applied to them, and the other part, for example, students from the faculty of education, because they are not in the selected fields, so they must not. That's completely illogical. And I'm already leaving my technical fields aside, because that's where it goes, of course. So this motion for a resolution, aware that we won't approve today, I'd like to put it here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u13	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Helena Válková. Will be prepared - still for de facto - Member Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u14	Thank you. I will follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Rais, Mr Vice-President. I would like to stress that what Mr Válek has already said here remains a systemic problem and we must address it. I think that the motion for a resolution is in part such a good signal that we could somehow move this solution forward. I have a petition here. I wanted to read it as chairman of the petition committee. I signed up properly. It is a petition signed by 36 559 students on 13 April 2021. Three signatures are classic, petitioning, the other ones are electronic. It is, of course, also due to the covido situation. They're asking for an administrative exam. The reasons are mainly weak technical readiness, lack of distance teaching quality, ininformation, lack of assistance for students in long-distance superstructure studies, refusal to help volunteers, problems of practical graduation, warning of procedures in Slovakia and unclear return of students to schools. I don't have time for this. I'll close it by discussing it 27. 4. 2021, which is quite late, at the meeting of the petition committee. There's going to be an intelligence report. At this point, I just want to point out that we definitely want to help the seniors today. The ways of help vary, as we heard a moment ago. I think that a balanced compromise is the resolution proposed by Mr Rais. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u15	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Marek Výborný. Ambassador Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond, because otherwise we would not get the space, even for the KDU-ČSL. There are a few things to say. For one thing, we've gotten into this situation, unblamed, covidos, and I don't doubt that it's very difficult for students, students, that it's very complicated for teachers and directors, but it didn't mean that schools shut down for a year, as someone here is trying to suggest. There's really been a standard distance teaching that can never be replaced, it can never fully replace the attendance teaching, it's obvious to everyone. And, of course, for the practical part, it's de facto impossible in many cases. That's right. But we were very appealing to the Ministry for the minister to make an adjustment to the form of the graduation exam this year, and that is what happened. So that's what we need to say. The graduation exam was modified, significant reliefs were made in the common part, de facto only didactic test remained. As well as the directors were given the authority to postpone deadlines, as well as to have the authority to adjust the exam assignment in the practical part. In response to what my colleague Valachová unleashed, I contacted the leadership of two regions: one of the great South Moravian regions, then I communicated with the councillor for education in the Pardubice Region. I haven't noticed a word of confirmation of what MP Valachová is presenting here. Indeed, the data is clearly not based on the truth in this case. From my point of view, what is important to do for the students is that we don't constantly get confused by the fact that maybe things could be different. Students, directors and educators need to be sure. The security has been set up by the Minister of Education's decisions last month or last month, and I am convinced that if there are problems, and that is how the directors have the information, they will contact their founders, in this case the regions. And I don't believe that the Ministry of Education wasn't able to respond to those things when the problems actually occurred. [[Time.]] [[Time.]] So let's just make sure the students are safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u17	Now, then, Mr Patrik Nacher, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not very good at Thursdays. All we're missing today is the slacker, I think it was Thursday, too. The previous point has been sharpened, nothing has been approved, even if that's what everyone wants. I didn't get that. At this point, we have this point open - if you tell me - for the third or fourth time that Karel Rais is always in the first place, and in fact, he's never gonna get his turn on the first person in the first place. So it's really true that seniors are confused because we haven't been able to finish this point for 14 days. And I am glad that even with the help of a factual colleague, Karel Rais here has read the resolution which I support and which clearly states that in exceptional cases the Minister should be able to grant an exemption in terms of official graduation. And it's an exception, as well, to the adjustment of the relief measures in terms of distancemen. But we should finally end this. Even this point began at 12 o'clock, again continued with a rift, which ends here at one o'clock, and the order of all the performers is the same. We're not moving anywhere, so I don't know what to do with it. Unfortunately, I would be in favour of this resolution, so that the graduates really know what political will is. And then it's up to the Minister of Education to decide in some way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u19	Mr Ferjenčík will now speak on the point of fact and Minister Robert Plaga will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Valachová, who here, of course, started attacking home schooling. I really think that was completely out of line and out of line. She started putting home-schooling into context here, in private school, and I don't know what else. I would like to argue against this because I think that home teaching is a solid part of our education system, it is perfectly fine and I do not understand why anyone is attacking it. That's one thing. And the second thing: I wanted to draw attention to the problem that I consider serious, and this is a situation where apprentices do not have practical teaching in many cases, but then they do the exact same activity, for example, in the framework of the brigade. I think it's completely bizarre that it's forbidden to do activities in some kind of internship or practical teaching as an apprentice, and then maybe do the same activity in a part-time job. There really is no logic in this measure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u21	Now, Minister Robert Plaga and Ambassador Kateřina Valachová will be ready if we can make it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u22	Given what has been said, Mr President, I must say that it is the official data of the administration of the Pardubice Region. Pardubice Region, official answer - 47 has a practical exam, 4 moved the deadline, 22 modified the practical exams. It is only the speaker, Mr Excellent, by your means. And Mikuláš Ferjenčík, through you. I do not argue, I have responded with my remark, dear Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, to your Member Bartoň's comments and how he examines Facebook profiles. There is no context for assessing home education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u23	Mr. Karel Rais should be given the floor now, but you have a minute, maybe not. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Well, go ahead. I'll let you finish that minute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u24	Mr President, you gave me a minute last time too, and I think even you. Well, I'll get started then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u25	Well, it's 13 o'clock. [[Laughs of Mr Raise and Members in the Chamber.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I am interrupting the negotiations, I wish you a good taste and we will continue with the 14.30 hours of interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-004-528.u26	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 14.30, we will continue with the point
