ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u1	526. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 19 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And now we're going to proceed to the answers to each of the interpelations. The first is the interview for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from Mrs Olga Richterová on the discount for disabled pensioners. We interrupted this interpelation into the presence of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is excused, so we will not continue to discuss it, or it will not be possible to open it. Another interpelation, once again to the Prime Minister, from Mrs Richterová on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and I will not open it. Another intervention is an interpelation to the Prime Minister by Mr Ferjenčík in the case of 2 000 billion of lithium. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence. He's excused, so we're not opening this interview. Another interpelation is to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from Mrs Kovářová on the capacity of primary and kindergarten schools. Even this one is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, so we won't open. Another interpelation is for the Prime Minister, Mrs Kovářová, on the subject of the information of the authorities. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will not open it. The next is an interview for the Prime Minister from Mrs Kovářová on compensation to the regions. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will not open it. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Jakub Janda to the Prime Minister in support of the sport area in the time of the coronavirus crisis. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will not open it. Another interview with Minister Jana Maláčová from Mrs Olga Richterová on the rules for the payment of the contribution in the Antivirus programme. This too is interrupted into the presence of the Minister, the Minister is excused, as I read at the beginning, so we will not discuss this intervention either. There is also an interview for Minister Jana Maláčová from Mr Marek Novák on the subject of the undersized OSPOD. This too is interrupted into the presence of the Minister, the Minister is excused, we will not discuss. There is also an interpelling of Mr Lipavský to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the planned trip to Moscow by Mr Nejedlý. This is interrupted by the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and we will not discuss it. There is also an interview for the Prime Minister from Mr Pavel Žáček on classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic. This too is interrupted by the Prime Minister's presence, and we will not discuss it. There is also an interview for Minister Jana Maláčová from Mrs Olga Richterová on occupational rehabilitation. This too is interrupted to the presence of the Minister, so we cannot begin the hearing. And then there is the interpellation of Mr Vojtěch Filip to Minister Lubomír Metnar in support of the Czech aviation defence industry. This is interrupted by the presence of the Minister of Defence. The Secretary of Defense is not present, so we will not discuss it. Another interpelation is from Mr Jan Skopeček to Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, in the matter of the selection procedure for the post of Director of the DUKLA sports centre. Even this one is interrupted into the presence of the Secretary of Defense, so we can't discuss it. There is also an interpelation for the Vice-President of the Government of Karel Havlíček from Mr. Jan Farský on the demolition of railway buildings in the Králové Hradec Region. This interpelation is not interrupted, so we can discuss it, so I'm opening it. It's a House press of 1187. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to the interview of Jan Farský on the demolition of railway buildings in the Králové Hradec Region. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1187. The Member is present, so we can discuss. I'm opening the debate and giving him my word. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R. We're in session. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not have been sufficient for this interpellation, which is precisely because it is written, from my point of view, and I think it is important that it be discussed here, so the presence of the Minister is important, so I would also like to ask for an interruption in the presence of the Minister of Transport in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u3	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we should decide without debate. [[Gong.]] I'll call my colleagues in the hall and ask everyone present to sign up with their cards. If the number of entries is not fulfilled, then we will proceed as we have settled our custom, which means that we will postpone this vote to the end of the block by interpelling. There. [[There's not enough kvorum.]] Looks like we don't care enough to vote. So if no one objects, I will proceed in accordance with the custom we have created here, and we will postpone the vote to the end of the block of written interpelations, and we will continue with the next one. [[9.10 hours]] No one objects, so we can proceed. There's another interpellation that hasn't been discussed yet, so I'll open it. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová responded to Mr Marian Jurečka's interview on the convicted lobbyist Roman Janoušek. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1188. The Member is present, so we can discuss the question. Initiating debate. The MP is interested in a performance, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning. Greetings to one of the only ministers of this government, Luboš Zaorálek, who came to interpelation today. Thank you, I appreciate it. She's had a really good week since Monday. And now I mean it in a good way that I appreciate it. I must say that I am personally sorry that there is no Minister of Justice Benešová, because I had an interview, my fellow Members and colleagues, on the matter of Mr Janoušek's case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u5	Sorry. I'm gonna turn myself off. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u6	Oh, thank you. I had an interview on Mr. Janoušek's case. That's a very well-known media story. I was surprised that this person could arrange an expert opinion, a medical opinion that he could not exercise his sentence for serious health reasons, and then we will learn from public media sources that this person is abroad, that he can engage in activities such as skiing. I must confess, therefore, that I do not know how you, Members of Parliament, who have come to the interview today, but I find that rather strange. I think the Attorney General should investigate this matter very properly. When I intersected her, she answered me very briefly. Interpelation was in two lines, apparently inadequate from my point of view, because I have a lot of questions. How is such a step possible? If it's a major failure in prison care? Why couldn't this man carry out his sentence at the prison hospital in Brno, for example? There are a lot of questions here, and above all, I'd like to hear from the secretary what she and her department are doing actively so that these things just can't happen, so that people here obviously don't try different loopholes and look for room to abuse to avoid the execution of punishment. So these are things that I don't think we should all be left in peace, we shouldn't let it pass, and we should just wave our hands at it and say, "This is some kind of interpelation, so let's just let it go. I would very much like - and I will then ask to vote on it - to insist on this discussion and that the Minister be here next time. She should clearly face it, express herself, say what she has learned, why this is happening, what steps she is taking to see if there are review reports. I just want this person not to laugh at Czech citizens, the Czech public, thousands of other people who had to take up their sentence completely, they had to do it, as they say, and then there comes one or several people who have capital to secure these things in some way, and then they avoid it. So I would like to and would ask that we discuss this interview the next time the Minister is here, because I consider it a very important, fundamental, fundamental view of how justice works in our country, and that, at the moment when a person is convicted, so that he can also fulfil the sentence, so that he simply fills it in the way the court has ordered him, not the loopholes to be found here. Of course, if this person proves to be seriously ill, I can understand that. But I can't understand it when someone looks like he's really sick and can also ski.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u7	Thank you. I think I'm gonna ask for some clarification on whether you're suggesting an interruption to the Secretary's presence, or the next time, or... [[- Until next time.]] Until next time, okay. You're suggesting we vote on it directly, so... According to the present, it doesn't look like we can vote. So if no one objects, I would interrupt this matter again and postpone the vote to the end of the block. No one seems to object, and it seems that the number of people present has not increased so that we can vote. So I'm going to move on to the next interpellation. Next, there is an interpelation under the House press of 1198, which we have not yet discussed, so I am opening it. Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interview on the state of the Jánská Koupele spa. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1198. The Member is present, so I am opening the debate and giving him the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u8	Thank you for the floor. I want to thank the Minister for being here today and that he really is the Minister who goes to work and fills the pre-election motto "Makáme." So, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I am addressing you with a subject that I have already mentioned here. It's about Janské Koupele, or saving this spa complex. After many peripetia, he has a complex of new owners that demonstrates his efforts to reconstruct it. But it encounters obstacles on the part of the state. The spa is listed on the list of cultural monuments. There wouldn't be anything wrong with that, this unique area would certainly belong there. But it prevents its reconstruction, namely saving at least its viable part. I have therefore contacted the Ministry of Culture several times. The last result of our communication is my interpelation and the subsequent response I received from Minister Zaorálek at the end of March. I thank the Minister for his response, as well as his interest in the spa, that he is also concerned with their rescue and innovation. But I can't agree with his attitude because he seems wrong to me. In his reply, the Minister confirmed that he was still behind putting the complex on the list of cultural monuments. It presents a number of architectural and other specifics that characterize the spa, or do not believe that current owners will preserve it. The Minister also describes who met with representatives of the current spa owners, i.e. Bad Johannisbrunn, from the representatives of the town office of nearby Vítkov to the director of the monument office from Ostrava. But I think it would be good to have a meeting with the Minister directly. I'm sure more attention is in order. Jánské Koupele are unique not only in their form but also in history. Briefly, the foundation of the complex dates back to the 19th century. The first written mention of the healing springs there dates back to the 17th century. The Minister also informed me how various maintenance work in the complex was handled during the above negotiations, securing the fence of the premises, removing the raid trees, changing the hiking trails, mowing the grass, and that there was planned to repair and open mineral springs for the public. I'm sure that's fine, but it's not enough. More needs to be done to save this unique complex. Of course, the main burden lies on the current owners, but the state should not throw official sticks at them. The Institute of Cultural Monuments is certainly needed, but it is a journey, not a destination. It is supposed to lead to their salvation, not to their further decay, and unfortunately, this is also happening in the case of the Yankee koupel due to the tight position of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u9	Thank you. The Minister is interested in speaking in the debate, so I'll give him my word. I will ask my colleagues in the hall to be more calm, but I think we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u10	Yes, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. So we are going back to the case of the Janské Baths in the district of Opava in the Moravian-Silesian Region. I will just say that I agree more or less with Mr Janda's position on the questioning of Mr Janda. I would like to inform you about what has happened, or rather I think it is right to inform you about what has happened and what I am planning to do next. So I'm just going to say that this is why I met with the CEO of architect Goryczková, who, of course, knows this object very well. I can therefore recapitulate that she has a position which is more or less familiar and which Mr Janda probably knows as well. She is convinced that the original nature of the monument in Janské Baths did not disappear and that the reasons for conservation did not pass, because according to her, the complex in terms of historical, aesthetic, urbanist is extraordinary. It's a kind of symbiosis between nature and architecture. She believes that something similar in this district or in this region can only be found in Karlovy Studánka, that those Janské Koupeles are a relatively rare example of something that represents a similarly remarkable complex of spa architecture in this district. [[9.20 hours]] Of course, the discussion begins with the belief that the entire complex will be saved precisely because it is a particular whole with conservation. The most important are about two houses, the Healing House and the Spa House, the two largest objects are probably the most valuable, but she points out that the others too and that the whole deserves conservation. So here I have reacquainted myself with this position, and then I have also thoroughly acquainted myself with Mr Ležatka's position, the current owner, who is ready to reconstruct some of it with respect for conservation. He's talking about two objects out of the eleven, but he's convinced that restoring the spa in its entirety is beyond his financial capabilities, and it's beyond any calculation that makes sense to him. So, actually, when I compared the two opinions, I found, of course, that in this form or at this point, it's hard to bring them together, because according to the National Monument Institute, Mr. Ležatka's approach here is not acceptable to them, and we do not have a compromise in this form. So, of course, I have come to the conclusion that the possible procedure, because we have to move here, would be if we held a meeting right here in the Janské Koupelí building, which I would like to participate in myself, which would be attended by Mrs. architect Goryczková and Mr. Ležatka, that we would go through all the objects and at the same time discuss what is a compromise that would be acceptable to the owner and which, say, to some extent or to a large extent, would be conventional in the position of the National Monument Institute. I believe that such a compromise must be sought because, of course, there are a number of those parts, as I know, that are already quite dilapidated, and I think it is a very bad result if, due to this non-negotiation, it would only go on and we didn't save anything at all. So what I want to promise here now is that as soon as the situation, especially epidemic, permits it, and I hope that it could be quite soon, so I would like to do from the partial negotiations with the individual actors that we would conduct this meeting directly in the Jánské Baths and I would hope that there would be a chance to find a compromise that would, on the one hand, try to meet the rather strict position of the National Monument Institute and at the same time be sufficient room for the owners to embark on the reconstruction of the spa. And I say for myself that I have quite a lot of interest in finding this intersection, and this meeting or meeting that I believe could take place in the order of weeks, so I am hoping that we should reach a compromise here. Give me a minute, I say I'm putting the negotiations together as quickly as I can, and I'm happy to give you an update on the outcome.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u11	Thank you. The Member is also reporting for the debate, so Mr Janda has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I hope that you will reach a compromise meeting and this complex will really be saved. I'd be very happy if you'd keep me informed of the outcome. Thank you, I do not want to adopt any resolutions on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u13	Thank you. I'll ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr Staněk, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes, but if you want to continue, I don't think that's a problem. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u14	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen, Minister of Culture, fellow Member, I would just like to say that I personally dealt with the area of Jánský Koupelí when I was a minister, and I personally visited this area. I've been through all the buildings we've been talking about, and I understand that in the past period, when another owner, who may have been media-interesting, there were doubts as to how the site would have been modified. However, what the Minister is talking about has actually been done intensively. We were there, we talked to the representatives of the municipalities that are around, and the situation in particular of the buildings that the minister, the stone-sized buildings, is talking about, is really very rustic. I am really intercede for possible negotiations to take place on the spot as quickly as possible and for a very serious and really rational and reasonable approach to proceed further, because I feel that in many cases, and not only in the case of these Baths, the situation is that we want to save something, but we do not have the funds to do so. So sooner or later, we'll lose those sights, and the investor's just waiting, waiting, waiting. So thank you for the Minister's initiative, but if he wants information, I can give it to him exactly, including photo documentation, because we were really going through the whole area step by step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u15	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. I'll ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. Mr Janda said that he would not propose an opinion, so I suppose that is still true. We've exhausted this interpelation, I'm ending it, thank you, everyone, and we'll move on. The next is an interpelation under the House press 1200. First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček responded to Mr Jan Čižinský's interpellation on the position of the resort on the travel of unmarried partners of residents from third countries to the Czech Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1200. I don't see Mr Čižinský here at the moment, I don't know if he's anywhere near here, but if he's not here, the interpellation is failing and the House won't deal with it, so that ends. Next, there is an interpelation under number 1201, which is the interpelling of Mr Jan Lipavský to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the appointment of former Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch as Czech Ambassador in Finland. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to this interview. Interpelation together with response shall be submitted as a House press of 1201. Mr Lipavský is present and I am opening the debate, and if the Member is interested in speaking, which I assume he has, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, the Prime Minister does not go to interpelations; that is standard - for written interpelations; he goes to oral interpelations when they are held. It is a strange interpelation, it is a strange situation, because the forthcoming ambassador in Finland is also present in the hall. I wonder if we will witness his speech, Mr Vojtěch. [[9.30 hours]] I asked Prime Minister Babiš to comment on the nomination of former Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch as an extraordinary and authorised Ambassador of the Czech Republic in the Republic of Finland, which was approved by the Government and which, at the time it passed through the media, raised a very negative response not only in the media, but also among people who have long been engaged in Czech foreign policy, diplomacy and have something to say about these issues. Taking this from the ground up, the post of Ambassador of the Czech Republic is captured in the Constitution and in the Vienna Conventions on Diplomatic Relations of April 18, 1961, which is subsequently processed by the Decree of the Minister of Foreign Affairs No. 157/1964 Coll., and in other internationally established legal and diplomatic matters and thus captures the place of the highest diplomatic representation of our state - I repeat the word of the supreme - and it is subsequently established for this function. Thus, the person who is entrusted by the Czech Republic by our state to perform such a high diplomatic post is absolutely crucial for the implementation and fulfilment of bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and the country to which it is sent. The role of the Ambassador is completely irreplaceable, especially for the clear formulation, interpretation and defence of foreign policy positions and positions of our country in the country to which it was appointed and subsequently entrusted. It is beyond any discussion that a candidate for that top diplomatic post should have, in addition to the relevant expertise and linguistic facilities, appropriate practical experience in the field of foreign service, but which cannot be acquired other than that he has been active in foreign service or international relations before he takes up the position of Ambassador for a considerable period of time. That last qualifying assumption is something that can't be replaced by anything else. When I looked at the career of the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, it can be concluded that he did not work one minute of his professional life in the field of foreign service, because sporadic foreign trips carried out as a minister cannot be considered as such. [[Health]] The nomination that the Prime Minister has passed through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, today by the former Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, is, of course, absolutely presumptuous even from the point of view of career diplomats working at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If an ambassador becomes a career diplomat, it does not occur until after 15 years of active activity in the Czech diplomatic service and only a handful of those who have passed after graduating from university, diplomatic academy and have gone through a number of trips, twice or three times after four years, to the representative offices in lower diplomatic ranks, that is, they have worked it out. Most of our career diplomats, and although they are excellent workers with extensive expertise and broad practice, often have more universities, control two or more languages, but they don't have a chance to get to the top of their diplomatic career, because there's just a limited number of ambassadors, and then there's political nominations on the parachute. Of course, the nomination undermines and undermines the fundamental principle on which a service law is built, which works with the principle of foreseeable career progress of civil servants, provided that they comply with the law laid down by the professional prerequisites that they carry out their professional work. Of course, it brings stability to the system, and that's what the service is supposed to be for. So, on the one hand, the Service Act hits hard on employees who he believes must follow, and on the other hand, we have a purely political nomination here, more or less, for thanking you. In my opinion, Mr Vojtěch's engagement as an ambassador in Finland is also indefensible because, although he served for three years as a member of the government, the executive authority, and, of course, the government is responsible for the exercise of foreign policy, and at the same time acts as a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, I did not notice that he would, at any time, comment on foreign policy issues. He did not do so, although he had the opportunity to act as a politician and a publicly active person during that time, in some cases we can say that he was also obliged to comment on foreign policy and security issues affecting the Czech Republic, such as the aggressive and diverse behaviour of Russia and China towards the Czech Republic and other democratic states, the brutal suppression of fundamental human rights and civil liberties in China, Hong Kong, Russia or Belarus, or the security issues associated with the completion of the Dukovany nuclear power plant, so I find the ambition to be an ambassador completely presumptuous. The Prime Minister, the absent prime minister, has repeatedly claimed that he will fight against the political newsrooms, that he will fight against the bad guys. He didn't even... I'm gonna show the lady here because she's making a loud comment, or it's within the norm, so here I'm gonna remind you of your campaign promotional material, where the Prime Minister got a picture of himself with the newsstand...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u17	I would interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and I would ask that we address ourselves through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u18	I am sorry, Mr President. Dear Members, through Mr President, I have shown you a picture of Prime Minister Babiš on advertising material, where he is photographed with the newsstand and advertising message: Cancel the newsrooms, choose the pros! Yes. Elections to the European Parliament on 23 and 24 May. Of course, the Prime Minister replied to this interview that everything was great, that Mr. Adam Vojtěch could do the job. Let's see how it turns out, how it's gonna be. I just consider it important to mention that foreign service is not a pigeon. It has to be done by some kind of system. [[9.40 hours]] What social democracies are currently doing, when they exchanged ministers there, suggesting a new minister who worked for CEFC, now CITIC, a company with ties to Chinese military intelligence, is absolutely scandalous. It tells us how this government drives foreign policy, how it more or less does what it wants there. First Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček announced that he would fly to Moscow to negotiate a summit between Biden and Putin and bring some vaccines. The question, of course, is when, who will inoculate them, but Russian vaccines in Slovakia have provoked a government crisis, so let's see if Prime Minister Babiš can handle it. Maybe it's another Trojan horse from Hamáček who still wants to decompose the government coalition, even though perhaps the word of the coalition is too high. Of course, what is absolutely scandalous and also speaks of the state of Czech foreign policy is the fact that the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Government will accompany Andrej Danko, President of the Slovak National Council -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u19	Ambassador, I'm gonna interrupt you again, and I have to call you to the point. After all, your intervention concerns the appointment of the former Minister of Health as Ambassador, so I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u20	Exactly, the appointment of Adam Vojtěch as ambassador is simply one of many examples of how Czech foreign policy is conducted unsystematically, incorrectly and against the interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u21	Thank you. I'll introduce the House to a note. Minister of Health Petr Arenberger apologizes to us today from 9 to 15 o'clock on account of urgent work matters. Mr Bžoch is reporting, I do not know whether for debate or with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'll handle it in a factual note. Mr Lipavský, through Mr President, you have just shown that you have no knowledge of diplomacy and international relations. The fact that they are political nominations is given historically and has not been implemented by anyone other than Edvard Beneš, which you know we wouldn't have a republic without him. He already said that one third of the diplomatic corps should be political, because of course it is governed by politics and not just by diplomats who are in office. So what you're saying is that it's taking somebody's place in diplomatic circles at the State Department, it's completely misguided, and it's not true. Political nominations have always been here, and they will continue because this is part of politics and diplomacy. And you, by what you said here - and I agreed with you in some things - have shown the basic ignorance of this principle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Lipavský will also respond with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad it was said on the microphone that the political nomination belongs here, but you should have said it before the election, you should have put it on the poster with the newsstand. Then it would make sense, Mr Member, through Mr President. But if there were only political nominations for the post of Czech ambassadors, it would make sense, but now we have business nominations, otherwise the post of Ambassador Fleischmann in France cannot be marked. He's just a guy who does a job there for the Křetínský. Why did you put him there from Prague Castle? I don't understand. You're just driving this state in a completely insane way, and that's what it looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u25	Thank you. Now I have a real one here, and then some people reported to me for a debate, so we'll manage to catch up. First, Mr Staněk with a factual remark, then Mr Bžoch, then a proper application for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u26	Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, by your means. I think the United States of America is very inspiring for your political party, or the movement. I think that many ambassadors' nominations for the posts of your fellow American colleagues are also political in nature. Why should the Czech Republic have a different attitude than your role model?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u27	Thank you. Mr Bžoch, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u28	I'll be very brief. Mr Lipavský, through Mr President, what you have said here can be translated into a way that Edvard Beneš has actually introduced our trade fairs here. Well, you should be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u29	Thank you. Now the applications for the debate, as the first Mr Jurečka, then the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u30	I'd try to look at it rationally in the debate. I think that the good state can evaluate it for the success of the state and its citizens when, for example, someone from government ministers has actually done a job, and the minister's work is, in essence, also diplomatic service, because the minister has to be diplomat, he deals with people abroad, so, of course, it is a matter where these people, if they are going to serve in the diplomatic corps afterwards, are for the benefit of the citizens. But what's in the controversy is whether the parameters in this matter are fulfilled, if the minister who ends - and the reasons were many, the Prime Minister also commented on them from the point of view of bad coordination of the operation of the resort and so on - if this is the right example. Here, I think we need to look at it through the optics of both sides, and from my point of view, the truth is somewhere in the middle. I think the good state should appreciate it when someone offers themselves and has good skills to be in the diplomatic corps and work for the success of the state, but it is not meant to be at all costs, and it is no longer a political nomination, but then it is politics. And that's something that you're not supposed to agree to, and it's not supposed to be practiced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Červíčková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would just add to my colleague Mr Lipavský. I am very sorry, I understand that you have been interested in foreign policy for the last three years through participation in the foreign committee, but at the moment I can only confirm that you have demonstrated that your personal antipathy prevails over any professional interest in this area. Unlike you, I worked at the Czech embassy abroad, and I am very sorry that you compare all diplomats who are posted for our republic to the newsrooms. That's inappropriate, and I think you should apologize to the diplomats right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u33	Thank you. I ask that we address ourselves through me. Mr Lipavský claims a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u34	Thank you for the floor. I am merely allowing myself to bring to the right the two information that has been given by Mrs Červíčková. It's nothing personal. I am only familiar with Mr Vojtěch here, as we meet in the halls. I've been acting purely on the basis of publicly available data, it's really nothing to hold a grudge against anyone here. You have finished your speech, Madam, through the President, by saying that I consider all ambassadors to be traders. Well, of course that's not true. Unfortunately, a large part of the ambassadors currently serving fills some signs, career diplomats are there today really like saffron. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u35	Thank you, these are all the applications for the debate at the moment. If no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate. Am I asking Mr Lipavský if he is proposing a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies? It's not like that. In that case, we have exhausted this interpelation, and we have also exhausted all of the interpellations except for the two that we have interrupted to vote on them. I'll call my colleagues in the O.R. Based on the number of entries, it looks like we should get to that level so we can vote. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. According to the voting device, there are enough of us in the hall at the moment. I'll wait until some of my colleagues arrive from the lobby to give the opportunity. We are going to vote on two of the interventions that are proposed here to interrupt. First of all, it is an interpellation to Minister Marie Benešová from Mr Jurečka, it is the House Press 1188. It is proposed to be interrupted until the next time, unless the Member wishes to interrupt. Then there is an interview for the Minister of Transport Havlíček from Mr. Jan Farský, who is proposed to interrupt into the presence of the Minister. So I saw the Minister here, but I believe we can vote this way at this point if no one objects. Is there anything else Mr Jurečka wants to supplement with the priority right? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u36	I wanted to ask the House very briefly to really allow the interruption of this interpellation to Minister Benešová by the next time, because it would be really good to hear a clear fair answer, as is the question of Mr Janoušek avoiding the execution of the sentence. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u37	I would also like to ask if anyone would object to the vote by one vote, which means both interruptions at the same time, even if they are for other ministers and other kinds? I don't see any protest against it. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Especially? Okay, the O.R. is a separate vote request, so step by step. First of all, we will deal with the interpellation under House press 1188, which is the interpellation of Mr Jurečka to Mrs Benešová, where it is proposed to interrupt until the next discussion of written interpelations, so we all know what we will be voting on. Initiating serial number 93 vote and asking who's in favour of the interruption? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 93, 71 Members of Parliament are due, for 70, 1 abstained. Thank you. We have therefore interrupted this interpelation until the next hearing of written interpelations. And then there is the interview under the number 1187 of Mr Farský to Minister Havlíček, where it is proposed to interrupt the presence of the Minister. I think we all know what we're going to vote on. Initiating serial number 94 vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 94, 71 Members of Parliament, for 64, against no one. So we interrupted this interpelation, too. That settles all the interpelations at the moment, thank you. I note that on this day, we have closed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelations of Members. In accordance with the decision of the President and the discussion held on the Gremium or the Organising Committee, I am interrupting the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 14.30 pm when we continue to discuss paragraph 527, which is oral interpelation. I remind you that in 15 minutes' time, according to those decisions, we will continue the adjourned 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so I am interrupting our negotiations until 10.05... By 10.15, let's have it rounded up, and then we'll continue to discuss the 93rd meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-098-03-001-526.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, first of all, technically, before we continue the negotiations of the suspended 98th meeting, I would like to clarify that before the lunch break, there was no information on the interruption of the 93rd microphone, so I am announcing at this point that 93. the meeting is adjourned until the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies has agreed between the Presidents as we continue with this meeting. And now I am opening the afternoon session of the 98th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. Since we've had another meeting, I'm going to sign you all out now, I'm going to ask you to sign in, or to tell you who votes with the replacement card. And we'll proceed to the point.
