ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u1	61. Government bill amending Act No. 186/2013 Coll., on citizenship of the Czech Republic and amending certain laws (the Act on citizenship of the Czech Republic), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 690/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček, will be mentioned. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, the aim of this amendment is to respond to the deteriorating situation in the field of security and to strengthen the emphasis on the condition that persons acquiring citizenship are sufficiently integrated in the Czech Republic. We therefore propose a certain tightening of the conditions for the acquisition of citizenship. This is mainly about tightening up the requirement that the applicant or applicant for citizenship prove not only criminal but also criminal integrity, not only their income but all the funds that will serve to cover their living costs in the Czech Republic, length and new course of study in the Czech language, whose completion allows you to grant an exemption from the requirement for exams from Czech language and Czech realities. And in the case of acquisition of citizenship in a simplified manner on the basis of a declaration, it is proposed to introduce an obligation to prove criminal integrity. Furthermore, there are a number of details and technical adjustments, and changes to the Act on Citizenship are also followed by technical amendments to the Act on Administrative Charges, the amount of which remains unchanged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u3	Thank you, but I have Mr Radovan Vích's rapporteur here, who is not present, so I will ask for a replacement. Mr Radek Koten will be an alternate. So, of course, we will vote on this, on this amendment by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and asking who is the rapporteur for a change? Who's against it? In voting order number 234, 88 Members signed up for 63, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. I will ask the Member to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u4	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the Government's proposal for a law, the House's press 690, amends the law on citizenship, including its annexes. Minor changes also concern the Act on Administrative Charges. This is therefore a tightening up of the acquisition of Czech citizenship, including the situation where citizenship is acquired by a young person, but long-term residence in the Czech Republic. The conditions for granting citizenship to different types of applicants shall be harmonised. The annexes to the law are changing. Particular attention shall be paid to minors and persons between the 18th and 11th years. Adult applicants over 21 years of age are also taken into account for their possible offences and their financial security. The law includes up-to-date practical experience, particularly in the context of a deterioration in the security situation in Europe. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed for 1 July 2020. As far as the press procedure 690 is concerned, the government does not propose the approval of the press at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Vice-President Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u6	Good evening, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't expect to see this press again, but it is, so I'm going to introduce you to some of the reservations I have. This amendment can be clearly described as an effort by the government to improve the identification of the possibility of acquiring Czech citizenship. And although we can talk here about the extent to which this is the direction we want to take, and I understand that this is a political issue, it must be pointed out that the law contains fundamental technical shortcomings. In short, this proposal infringes multilateral and bilateral international agreements on mutual recognition of decisions, contrary to Article 1 (1) of the Treaty on European Union. Article 10 (2) and Article 10 of the Constitution on compliance with international obligations, as well as introducing draconian and non-systemic penalties. The first fundamental problem I see is that it proposes to remove the automatic acquisition of citizenship adopted by the decision of foreign courts only to the courts of the countries of the European Union. The same applies to foreign decisions to determine paternity. On the basis of a decision of a foreign court outside the country of the European Union, the Czech citizen's defence will have to seek new citizenship, where the so-called purpose of this application will be examined. This is the new version of Sections 6 and 9. Here it is very important to stress that this is an illegitimate double treatment of children of Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u7	Sorry. [[There's a discussion going on at the newsstand.]] I'd like to see the news desk. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u8	According to the provisions of Section 55, respectively 51 of the Private International Law Act, the validity of a court of a foreign State's decision to determine paternity in the Czech Republic is necessary for the recognition of a decision by the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic. Similarly, the decision of a foreign State to adopt decides on recognition of the relevant district court pursuant to Sections 63 and 16 of the Private International Law Act. There is therefore already a mechanism of the Czech judiciary to review the decisions of the courts of foreign states, which are a condition for obtaining citizenship of the Czech Republic. In addition, the Czech courts also examine this purpose in the application of foreign court decisions. Both the Constitution and the general legal principles give rise to the superior position of independent courts over administrative bodies, not the other way around. It is therefore not possible that the decisions of the Czech independent courts that review the foreign judicial decision are merely a basis for the consideration of the Ministry of the Interior on whether or not the adopter of the Czech citizen grants citizenship. In the first place, there is double control and review, which is inefficient, and it also violates the Constitution and international obligations. There is also a categorization of children of Czech citizens for the better and the worse. In short, the Czech court will confirm to the Czech citizen that the child is his, but the Ministry never has to give him citizenship. The explanatory memorandum does not give any indication of the specific phenomena of practice to which the legislation is intended to respond. In this provision, only the Ministry's efforts to usurp more powers can be seen. I therefore call for the maintenance of the existing regulation under Sections 6 and 9 of the Act on Citizenship. Indeed, in this sense, the Government Human Rights Commissioner has also expressed herself. I see the second major problem in the introduction of a draconian provision that prohibits granting citizenship to an applicant who has repeatedly committed an offence in the area of protection against alcoholism and other toxicities, defence of the Czech Republic, integrated rescue system, public order, civil coexistence, property or under the Act on Weapons in the last three years. These are the new texts of § 14 para. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the 3. Here I am willing to accept some grounds for stricter regulation in relation to the defence of the Czech Republic and the arms law. All right, but sanctioning a man with a total ban on citizenship, because in the last three years, twice in a row, he's thrown gum on the ground or broken the night's peace, so don't be mad at me, that's pretty misguided. Not to mention that it violates the principles of resocialization within the framework of punishment. Another problem with this design is the fact that the law itself in the preceding paragraphs allows citizenship to be granted to an applicant who has been found guilty of a negligence crime for which he has been conditionally convicted. It is so difficult to understand the design where the applicant who has been convicted of negligence may become a citizen, but the applicant who has committed two offences cannot become a citizen. According to the proposed modification, for example, a person can drive under the influence of a car, for example, pardon, for being sentenced for a criminal offence under the influence of an addictive substance, and citizenship will receive it, but a person who gets twice the fine for drinking beer in Petřín can't get it. Therefore, if the government wishes to tighten up the possibilities of granting citizenship, it should first introduce a ban on the granting of citizenship to all perpetrators of criminal offences rather than imposing incomprehensible sanctions for criminal offences. Personally, I believe that the current law is balanced, it is not necessary to change it in such an unconventional and draconical way. So these are the two basic reasons for which I would suggest that this press be rejected, or that it be returned to the petitioner for completion. I am presenting both of these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u9	Thank you. I've registered a rejection and possibly a return. I don't see anyone else enrolled in the general debate. I am ending the general debate. We shall vote on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 235, 87 Members signed in, for 19, against 15. The motion was denied. We shall vote on the rejection of the proposal. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 236, 87 Members registered, for 9, against 9. The motion was denied. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? Yes, Vice-President Pikal reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u10	In view of the problems I have quoted, I would rather suggest a committee constitutionally-legal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u11	Constitutional-legal. There's no other suggestion. So we're going to vote on the committee's commandment as a committee to the guarantee security committee. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 237, registered by 88 Members, for 63, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will vote on the commandment as the next committee to guarantee constitutional law. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] It's not. Sorry. I was wrong. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Vice-President Pikal will propose that this press be ordered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u12	Thank you. I respect that there has been a mistake and should have been voted in reverse order. But let's just let it go. I therefore propose constitutionally-legally as another committee and also, given the international element that is there, to the foreign committee as the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-029-061.u13	Constitutional law and foreign law? [[Yes.]] Anyone else have a suggestion? It's not. We will vote on the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 238, 87 Members registered, for 20, against no one. The motion was denied. To the next Commandment Committee - the Foreign Committee. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 239, 87 Members registered, for 19, against no one. The motion was denied. I'm ending the first reading of this press. The next item to be discussed is:
