ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u1	510. Proposals by the Chamber of Deputies for the granting or award of state honours /Department document 8439/ This material shall include the Organisational Committee Resolution No 400 of 13 May 2021. I ask the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal to present the proposals submitted under the authority of the Organising Committee. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am acting not necessarily as Vice-President, but in particular as Chairman of the relevant subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we meet again after a year over proposals to award or grant state honours, and this is the last time in our term of office. First, some summary of the previous year. Last year, the House approved 74 proposals for state honors for various personalities, and the President awarded nine of them on the basis of these proposals, so we were not very successful. This year we received a total of 51 proposals, eight of which came from some citizens and were eventually adopted by Members, and these 51 proposals were proposals for a total of 56 personalities. The Sub-Committee for the preparation of a proposal for state honours has discussed them and, in accordance with long-term practice, as there is no proportional representation, has forwarded all proposals which were supported by at least one Member or Members to the Organising Committee to refer them to the House. There are therefore 44 individual proposals for awards of important personalities, in the past and present in the field of military, resistance, politics, science, technology, education, art, medicine, sport and other areas of human life. At this point, I have been informed that several other proposals will be made directly here in plenary. It is not a practice that I am thrilled about, but it is certainly the right of every Member. Lessons from last year's discussion: this year we will vote on all proposals gradually and individually. Before each proposal, I will sum it up slightly, or I will draw attention to some previous awards. However, I would personally appreciate it if the various appellants had made themselves known in the debate and justified their proposals in more detail and presented that the decision-making should have some level. We also agreed in the subcommittee that, as in the previous year, I will prepare a motion for a resolution thanking those who participated in the current crisis situation last year, and we will call on the municipalities and cities to appreciate their local personalities, who deserved to manage the situation with them, because it is impossible for the state to appreciate everyone. This resolution, which was recorded as a document and sent out, is: "The Chamber of Deputies I. appreciates the extraordinary merits of all individuals, volunteers, companies, associations and other representatives of civil society who, at a time of pandemic, engaged selflessly in the production and distribution of drapes, shields and other protective equipment, the development and production of pulmonary ventilators, neighbourly assistance and other voluntary activities, in particular in the field of health and social services, in connection with the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the municipalities and the regions to appreciate their representatives of civil society within their separate remit; III. Says thanks to all doctors, health care professionals, crisis workers, members of the Security Councils, as well as to all other professions concerned in public service and in the private sector, who, by exemplary performance of their work duties in increased intensity and often under significantly difficult conditions, assist in managing the crisis situation associated with SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus.' [[14.50 hours]] I will then sign up for this resolution in a detailed debate and we would vote on it at the end as an accompanying resolution. I'll see if there's anything I didn't say in the organizational committee proposal, but I don't think there's anything. In principle, there is only a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which will read: "The Chamber of Deputies submits to the President of the Republic pursuant to Section 8 of Act No. 157/1994 Coll., on state honours, proposals for loan or award of state honours together with the characteristics of the candidates." Thank you. Thank you for your attention and then I will come forward later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I ask that you follow the general debate from the rapporteur's table. I am opening a general debate. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček is the first to join it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I apologize to Vice-President Pikal for coming up with a proposal in plenary, and I know he does not like the practice. I do this for the first time in eight years since I've been in the Chamber of Deputies. I didn't really get these suggestions until after the organizational committee discussed it. I have considered this, and because in both cases these are inspirational life stories and they are women - and I am convinced that there are few women decorated and there are never enough - so I took the liberty of performing. First of all, I want to adopt the draft discussion and opinion platform Senior Parliament to award a medal For heroism in memoriam of war veteran Olza Mauleová and then I suggest - a bit like patriot of the Zlín Region - Mrs. Zdena Wasserbauerová to award the state medal of merit for the state. Very briefly. Mrs. Zdena Wasserbauerová has been engaged in recruitment and activities associated with the so-called Bone Dobrom since 1997, when Mrs. Wasserbauerová has been looking for volunteers in the Czech National Register of Bone Marrow Donors for a quarter of a century. She crossed the line of 19,000 entries into the donor registry. She enjoys it because there is a shortage of people in the registry, and she says, "Two punctures and life will be saved." In addition to the collections themselves, they are also tirelessly trying to break down the myths that exist around the bone marrow collection itself. She was the first to reach out to her colleagues in Burma years ago, and 300 out of 500 agreed back then. As he says: "This encouraged me, I began to walk in volunteer firefighters and associations and to educate. Of the 120 people who register, only one can donate bone marrow, and in the Czech Republic it is necessary for 200 donors a year. Never stop, keep moving, and, if possible, help those who need it." Says Mrs. Zdena Wasserbauerová, the tireless bone marrow donor. She was born on 21 June 1940 in Nedakonice in Uherské Hradiště district. She spent her whole life working as an accountant at Barum in Otrokovice, an incredible 49 years. I will therefore propose Mrs. Wasserbauerová to award the State Medal of Merit. In terms of honours Medal of Heroism, Olga Mauleová was born in 1926 to Czech parents in Ukraine in Chmelnice region. When the Němec invaded the Soviet Union, Olga ended seventh grade and in the Great Patriotic War she first came into contact with the guerrillas and from February 1943 to March 1943 she was active as an explorer and liaison. She was involved in significant diversional events. From March 1943 to January 1944 she worked in the partisan section of Michailov-Oducha, then in the section commander Šiška. The comrades greatly appreciated her masterful conspiracy to collect valuable messages and hand them over to the crews of the guerrilla forces. She participated in the fights to liberate the cities of Ostrog, Rovno, Luck, Vladimir-Volyňska and Kovel. Twice she crossed the line towards Brest-Kovel, where there was a strategic key point. In 1947 she moved from Ukraine to the Czech Republic. For her bravery in the fight against the enemy she received many honours and medals of ours and foreign. The last medal was awarded to her in September 2020, a commemorative medal of the second degree of the Czechoslovak Legionary Community. Partisan Olga died on 3 November 2020 in Kladno, where she lived for 40 years. I therefore propose Mrs Olga Mauleová, the war veteran, to award the highest state medal for heroism. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition, Mr Žáček is entered into the debate, but before that I have the factual comment of President Jan Chvojka, or is it still a remnant of the last vote? So Mr Pavel žáček will speak in the general debate, Mr Pavel Růžička will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I took the initiative of a citizen on the subcommittee who was concerned with the so-called Mašín Brothers Group, however, as far as I know - if it was right in the media - the organizational committee excluded this proposal from the impulse of the President of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip. That's why I'm going to repeat the adoption and suggest it to you here in plenary. The proposal concerns Josef Mašín, Ctirad Mašín, Ctibor Novák, Václav Švéda, Milan Paumer and Zbyněk Janata. I designed a medal for heroics, mostly in memoriam. Let me now justify this proposal. I suggest you decorated the medals For heroism, members of one of the most famous resistance anti-communist groups. It was founded by the sons of Lieutenant Colonel Josef Mašín, who was shot by the Nazis on 30 June 1942. He called on his children to defend the freedom of the country and the nation in his last letter, which he kept as a wad on death row. [[15.00 hours]] After the war, the Ctirad brothers and Josef Mašín were honored by the President of the Republic by Edvard Beneš for their participation in the anti-Nazi resistance. When the Communist regime sent family friends of Heliodor Píka and Milada Horáková to the execution site, Ctirad and Josef Mašínův decided, along with their friends, to stand up to the new injustice with a weapon in their hand. In the atmosphere of the expected Third World War, which was often referred to in the Radio Free Europe broadcast, they first tried to acquire weapons. In September 1951, the Mašín brothers Mašín two National Security Corps servants in Chlumec nad Cidlinou and Poděbrady. At these events, two members of the SNB were killed and acquired automatic weapons. Shortly thereafter, the Mašín brothers and their uncle Ctibor Novák were arrested by National Security officers in connection with the preparation of their departure to the West, but they did not find any connection to these actions. Finally, only Ctirad Mašín, who was sentenced to 2.5 years in prison for preparing an illegal crossing of the border, was put before the court. The prisoner was in an uranium camp in Jáchymovsk. The remaining members of the group sought to set him free. In August 1952, they robbed the car of the Herlíkovský enterprise Kovolis, which carried wages for employees, in order to obtain funds for the resistance activity. During a fight Josef Mašín shot a militiaman and accountant Josef Rošický. After the return of Ctirad Mašín from prison in June 1953 a group from the mine Kaňk acquired an explosive donarit. In September 1953, Ctirad Mašín and Václav Švéda set fire to several stacks at Pivino in order to damage collective agriculture. On the way they were stopped by a patrol of volunteer firefighters, one of whom was seriously shot by Ctirad Mašín. In October 1953, the Mašín brothers, Milan Paumer, Václav Švéda and Zbyněk Janata set out on their way to West Berlin. Their aim was to contact the American party and to send a message from General František Vaněk about the possible cooperation of Czechoslovak troops in the event of war, after training to return to the country either as agents pedestrians or in the ranks of the American army. Eventually they spent several weeks on the road and got repeatedly into a shootout with members of the East German security apparatus and Soviet military forces. Only the Mašín brothers and the badly injured Milan Paumer arrived in Berlin, of course, in West Berlin. Commissioner Volkspolizei Hermann Grumini was shot in the Grumini station in an attempt to arrest the group, another police officer was badly injured. When surrounded by Valdov, members of Volkspolizei Herbert Hoffmann, Heinz Sunkel and Martin Lehmann were shot. Two members of the group, Zbyněk Janata and wounded Václav Švéda, were gradually captured and then released to Czechoslovakia, where they were then sentenced together with Ctibor Novák to death and 2 May 1955 executed in the underground premises of the Pankrác prison. A number of other coworkers and relatives were also convicted, including Zdena Mašínová, their mother, who died after a severe illness under terrible conditions on June 12, 1956 in Pankrác Prison Hospital. Her remains weren't released to the family and ended up in a mass grave at the devil's cemetery. The Mašín bratr and Milan Paumer joined the U.S. Army in Germany, then went to the U.S., where they prepared for the expected outbreak of World War III. When their hopes for the liberation of their homeland were not fulfilled, they went to civil service at the end of the 1950's and took up business. Their sister Zdeněk Mašínová stayed in Czechoslovakia, where she and her grandmother Ema Nováková spent long years under State Security control, who, by the way, tried to kidnap both brothers from Western Germany. In the mid-sixties they got on the list of a special report by communist intelligence with the code name Vlast, which was supposed to do according to the Soviet model "covering cannons," that is, they were killers who were supposed to cause the so-called exercise of socialist legality, euphemistically speaking, abroad. Zdeněk Mašínová saw her brother Josef only in 1969, when she managed to travel from Czechoslovakia to Copenhagen for a short time. Only after 1989 could all siblings meet together again. However, the Mašín brothers refused to come to Czechoslovakia in protest of the lack of settlement with the communist past. They were even prosecuted as the only members of the Third Resistance after November 1989, together with Milan Paumer for several years. In Act No. 262/2011 Coll., on Resistance and Resistance to Communism, the resistance and resistance to communism is considered to be such an activity that was carried out between 25 February 1948 and 17 November 1989 and was motivated by political, religious or moral democratic beliefs, while being developed in order to eliminate, significantly weaken or otherwise damage communist totalitarian power in Czechoslovakia and restore freedom and democracy. The Ministry of Defence has already decided that members of the Mašín brothers Vladimír Hradec in memoriam and also Zdena Mašínová, who was previously honoured by the President of the Republic by Václav Havel high state honours, were among the participants of the anti-communist resistance. Now the Ministry of Defence decides on further proposals submitted by the civil society for the deceased members of the resistance group of the Mašín brothers. With the exception of Josef Mašín, all other members of the resistance group have already died, so I suggest in their case to honour them in memoriam. Now specifically to individual personalities. Ctirad Mašín: He was born on 11th August 1930 in Olomouc as the oldest child of Josef Mašín and his wife Zdena, rozený Nováková, brother of Josef a Zdenka Mašínová. In 1945, Ctirad Mašín was honoured by President Edvard Beneš by the Czechoslovak Medal for valor for personal bravery during the war. After the war he graduated from the boarding school of King George's College of Poděbrad. From 1950 to 1951 he studied Czech Technical University in Prague, then he worked in professional professions. With their brother Josef and friends, they founded a resistance anti-communist group. In October 1951 he was arrested and in August 1952 sentenced to 2.5 years in prison for preparing an illegal crossing of national borders. Until his release after the so-called amnesty of the President of the Republic in June 1953, he was imprisoned in Jáchymovsk in uranium camps. Together with his brother and friends in October 1953 he went to West Berlin and from there to the USA. From 1953 to 1959, he served in the U.S. Army, spent the last two years on the crew in Europe. After leaving the army, he was engaged in business. He lived in the United States, first in New York and later in Cleveland. Based on his memories, Ota Rambousek prepared the book Just Not Fear, which came out in Prague in 1990. In addition, Ctirad Mašín is co-author of the book Journey to the Northwest, which was published by Academia in 2010. In 2005 he was awarded the G Masaryk Prize in Canada and in 2008 the honorary plaque of Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek. Ctirad Mašín died on 13 August 2011 in Cleveland. At a funeral in the U.S., Secretary of Defense Alexander Vondra awarded him the Golden Lips in memoriam. He's buried at a military national cemetery in Riverside, California. Josef Mašín. He was born on 8 March 1932 in Prague as the second child of Josef Mašín and his wife Zdena, rozený Nováková, brother of Ctirad a Zdenka Mašínová. In 1945 Josef Mašín was honoured by President Edvard Beneš with a Czechoslovak medal for valor for personal bravery during the war. After the war he graduated from the boarding school of King George's College of Poděbrad. Since 1950 he has worked in labor professions, with his brother and friends he founded a resistance anti-communist group. In October 1951 he was arrested for preparing an illegal crossing of state borders. Released after two months for lack of evidence. In the summer of 1953 he was again in custody for the same reasons. Together with his brother and his friends in October 1953 he went to West Berlin and from there to the USA. From 1953 to 1959 he served in the U.S. Army, of which he spent the last two years on the crew in Europe. After leaving the army he did business in the Federal Republic of Germany and in the USA. He's married, he's the father of Barbara and Sandra. His daughter Barbara Mašín is the author of the book, which was published under the Czech title Link - the true story of the Mašín brothers. It came out in 2005. Josef Mašín is also co-author of the book Journey to the Northwest. In 2005 Josef Mašín was awarded the G Masaryk Prize in Canada, in 2008 the honorary plaque of Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek. In 2011, Alexander Vondra, Minister of Defence, awarded him the Golden Leap Award. Josef Mašín lives in Santa Barbara, California. Ctibor Novák. He was born on 25 October 1902 in Prague as the first child of Leopold Novák and his wife Ema, born Svobodová. Brother of Zdena Mašínová, uncle of Ctirad, Josef and Zdenka Mašínův. After graduating from real school, he became a professional soldier. He graduated from the military academy in Hranice, Moravia, where he was his classmate Václav Morávek. In 1929 he married Marie Veselska, their daughter Míla was born in 1931 and son Ctibor 1932. In 1934, the marriage was divorced. After signing the Munich Agreement, he left the Czechoslovak Army in the rank of staff captain. He applied for tactical reasons for German nationality and changed his name to Anton Novak. He moved to Berlin, where he worked as an interpreter at the Main Imperial Security Office - RSHA. In September 1939 he carried out a bombing on the German Ministry of Aviation and the Police Directorate in Berlin. When Ctibor Novák then tried to escape abroad, he was detained and taken to Prague, where he was interrogated at the Gestapo in Petschkův's Palace. After ten months, he was transferred to Berlin and sentenced for spying on six years of penitentiary. He was only released at the end of the war. He returned to his homeland with broken health. [[15.10 hours]] From 1945 to 1946 he worked at Jesenick as commander of internment camps for Němec. He was famous for very hard behavior, had several executioners executed. The disciplinary proceedings against him were later brought to an end in this matter. He was remarried in 1946. His second wife was Jana Hanychová, born Melcherová, who came from Germany. Together they raised the son of Richard, whom they adopted as Vladimír Novák. In 1950 he retired for medical reasons in the rank of major. From 1951 to 1953 he worked as a receptionist in the military recuperation in Karlovy Vary and as a news representative in Jeseník. Together with his nephews, Ctirad and Josef joined the anti-communist resistance. Among other things, they considered the assassination of Klement Gottwald and other communist officials. State Security was arrested in October 1951. Due to lack of evidence, Josef Mašín and Ctibor Novák were released. After leaving his nephews abroad in autumn 1953, Ctibor Novák was again arrested. Together with Václav Švéda and Zbyněk Janata, the Supreme Court in Prague was sentenced to death for treason and hanged in Pankrác Prison on May 2, 1955. They were not allowed to be buried, and the urns with their ashes were destroyed in 1961. His sister Zdena Mašínová was sentenced in a separate trial for 25 years in prison. She died on June 12, 1956 in Pankrác Prison. After 1990, Ctibor Novák was rehabilitated, first with the so-called residual sentence of 15 years, later overall. In 1991 he was promoted to Colonel in memoriam. In 1998 a memorial plaque was revealed to professional soldiers who were executed after February 1948 on the building of the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic at Vítězný náměstí in Prague. They also include Novákův's name. Václav Švéda. He was born on 26 April 1921 in Pivíno u Olomouc in the family of small peasants. He graduated from college in Cologne, where his aunt lived. He repeatedly tried to go abroad after the Nazi occupation to join Czechoslovak troops abroad. In 1940 he was detained in an attempt to move to Switzerland. In 1942, he was sentenced to 15 years in prison in Berlin. After his liberation, he returned to his homeland, where he graduated from the Cologne Gymnasium. In 1946 he married Ludmila Mašínová, who was adopted daughter of relatives of Josef Mašín. Together they ran a farm in Lošany. On the occasion of the discovery of the Lošan memorial of Josef Mašín, he met his sons Ctirad and Josef Mašínův. In 1950, the Švéd economy in Lošany was seized, and two years later they had to move out. Václav Švéda worked until 1953 in various inferior jobs, among other things at the mine Kaňk u Kutná Hora. He joined the anti-communist group of Mašín brothers, together with them, Milan Paumer and Zbyněk Janata went abroad in the autumn of 1953. On his way to West Berlin, he was shot near the village of Waldow and could not continue with the others. Then he was arrested by members of the People's Police of the GDR. In 1954 he and Zbyněk Janata were released to Czechoslovakia, where together with Ctibor Novák were sentenced to death by the Supreme Court in Prague and on 2 May 1955 hanged in Pankrác prison. They were not allowed to be buried, and the urns with their ashes were destroyed in 1961. Václav Švéd's relatives were also affected. In the aforementioned trial, his wife Ludmila Švédová, father František Švéda and brothers Zdeněk a Vratislav Švédův were also sentenced to long-term prison sentences in 1955. After 1989, everyone was gradually rehabilitated. Václav Švéd's rehabilitation court first assessed the so-called residual sentence for 15 years. It was only after the renegotiation that he was fully rehabilitated. The last of the group is Zbyněk Janata. He was born on February 1, 1932, in Bartousov, Jičínsko, in the family of a teacher. Mother died in 1936. During the war, his father helped Zdena Mašínová after her husband was arrested. Zbyněk Janata met the brothers Ctirad and Josef Mašínův. After the war he did not finish his studies at the grammar school in Nymburk and Poděbrady. In 1948 he was admitted to the Higher Industrial School in Mladá Boleslav. After participating in an attempt to steal an engine from the wreckage of a car parked in the schoolyard, he was expelled from all schools. He then worked as a part-time worker in the huts in Kladno and later as a technical official in Kovolis Čáslav, an establishment in Hedvíkov. He joined the anti-communist group of Mašín brothers from the beginning. On 28 September 1951 he participated in the robbery of the SNB station in Čelákovice. In August 1952, he provided information for a carjacking with payouts for employees of Kovolis. In August 1953 he participated in the theft of Donaritus from the mine Kaňk. Together with the Mašínův brothers, Milan Paumer and Václav Švéda, he went abroad in the autumn of 1953. On his way to West Berlin, after a shooting at Uckro Station, he separated himself from his friends and was subsequently arrested by members of the People's Police of the GDR. In 1954 he and Václav Švéda were released to Czechoslovakia, where together with Ctibor Novák were sentenced to death by the Supreme Court in Prague and on 2 May 1955 hanged in Pankrác prison. They were not allowed to be buried, and the urns with their ashes were destroyed in 1961. He was rehabilitated in 1991.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u7	I thank Mr Žáček and his speech has raised factual points. First of all, Mr Jiří Valenta will make a point of fact, then Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, a slightly different view from my fellow Žáček. The Mašín Brothers Group was an armed criminal group that operated between 1951 and 1953 on the territory of Czechoslovakia and during its exodus in the German Democratic Republic. As part of their criminal activity, they robbed and robbed mainly weapons and money in order to create conditions for later escape to the West. In October 1953 members of the group decided to emigrate through the GDR to West Berlin. The first larger event of the group, where the Mašín Mašín accompanied Paumer, took place in Chlumec nad Cidlinou on September 13, 1951. The group ambushed the then National Security Council's service. The brothers had two plans, eventually Josefův was elected, and that was to eliminate the member of the iron rod. Fat iron rod hit Kašík Ctirad. But the officer didn't die or lose consciousness after the hit, so he was shot. Mašín, Paumer and Janata decided to acquire additional weapons on 28 September 1951 and ambushed another SNB service in Čelákovice. This time, the procedure invented by Ctirad was to talk to a member, then say "hands up" to him, disarm, tie up, put him to sleep with chloroform and then take him out. They lured Jaroslav Honzátek, a member of Čelákov, who represented a colleague that day, from the maid under the pretext of a traffic accident. Then they disarmed the officer, tied him up, and returned with him to the maid. honzátko cut Ctirad Mašín with a dagger. Murder was considered a robbery, and its political undertones came out only in connection with legal proceedings with part of the group. Ladies and gentlemen, we can't even propose state honors to such people, rather it would be appropriate to publicly condemn them morally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u9	Thank you and now, with a factual remark, Mr Leo Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only try briefly to quote one fact which has been omitted by the proposal, or not known to it. Josef Rošický, treasurer of the company Kovolis in Třemošnice, Mašín murdered in August 1952 due to the money needed to escape. And both brothers and another member of the resistance group Milan Pauer still claim that the murdered treasurer was a militiaman and a communist. Mr. Rošický was an armed militiaman. "As a militiaman, he swore an oath to the party for which he was willing to lay down his life," repeated Josef Mašín a few days ago. However, the reporter of the Week, who spoke to the memorials at the scene, found that this claim was far from true. Rošický was a gentleman with a truss sleeve, before nationalizing the right hand of the factory owner, whom they left behind because no one could do his job. He would never go to the side or to the militia, says today, for example, 72 - year - old Božena Miklovičová, who worked in Kovolis her whole life. So many quotes from those gentlemen who killed without finding out who and then making excuses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u11	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, then President Zbyněk Stanjura, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I thought that a piece of history, albeit very unpleasant, was long over, but, as you can see, the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes is fulfilling its purpose, and so instead of those who should be appreciated, we expect that here without scruples they are proposed to appreciate vicious murderers, people who have committed violent activity, did not hesitate to rob themselves in their personal behalf and committed the most brutal murders. For perhaps the Mašín brothers could not visit the Czech Republic after 1993? Why couldn't they even come to the Federal Republic of Germany? Those are the questions that stand by the deep reflection of what we have heard here from the mouth of my previous speaker, Mr. Žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u13	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u14	Thank you for the floor. The appearance of three Communist Members preceded my point of fact. They underline one known truth - the Bolsheviks will never change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u15	Thank you. And before I give my word... there is yet another factual point, Mr Stanislav Grospič will respond. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. And I would say to you through my predecessor: the Bolsheviks may have changed long ago and are a long time ago a history. And the Communists who are members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will probably not change, either, because they were able to find that self-esteem and distinguish themselves from what murder is, what is brutal murder, what is a crime committed on human life, and they were able to distance themselves from it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u17	Thank you. Now I will read the apologies that have come in the meantime. From 13.10 to 16 Mr Ondřej Profant apologizes for health reasons for today's meeting. Mr Radek Zlešák from 14.30 am to 18 apologizes. [[A peasant.]] [[Voices from the diaper:]] Did I say something else? I'm so sorry. Mr Radek Zlesák, I apologize to the honourable Member. Mr Špičák changes his original apology and apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons and the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček apologizes from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. It is now Mr Pavel Růžička's turn in the debate, and Mrs Jarošová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u18	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, allow me, on behalf of myself and Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Jan Bělica, to propose a medal for merit, Mrs Mgr Milena Bačkovská. She has been employed at the Ministry of the Interior since 1999, in June 2004 she was appointed Minister of the Interior as Head of the Department of Municipal Police, Weapons and Transport Engineering of the Department of Security Policy of the Ministry of the Interior. He holds this position so far. Mrs. Mgr Milena Bačkovská has long been engaged in important issues of internal state security, especially in the field of arms management legislation, in the area of municipal police, arms and ammunition issues, is a central formative person and has indisputable merit for the level of Czech legislation, especially on the balance of guarantees of security and efficiency in this regulation on the one hand and the protection of individual rights and freedoms on the other. It is particularly important to highlight its efforts, expertise, conceptuality as regards the implementation of the infamous European directive on arms. This extremely difficult transposition is thanks to Mrs Mgr Bačkovská managed to implement in the Czech Republic in an exemplary cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies in a form which, in terms of protecting legitimate rights of legal holders of arms, legal certainty and at the same time protecting public order and security, does not have a comparison elsewhere in the European Union in this best sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm correcting my apologies. The President of the House of Radek Vondráček does not apologise at 16 o'clock, but Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes until the end of the day for personal reasons. Mrs Monika Jarošová is now next, Mr Řehounek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I propose the Order of the White Lion . Vladimír Remek. I justify it: 43 years have passed this year since the first Czechoslovak spaceman's flight into space. Vladimír Remek is the only Čech to date who has this unusual experience. After demanding preparation, he took off to space under the Intercosmos program on March 2, 1978, on board the spacecraft Soyuz 28. As an astronaut researcher, he spent less than eight days off Earth. At the Saljut 6 space station, he helped the permanent crew there and devoted himself to the scientific program. This event has, and so far, been of great importance to our country. Vladimír Remek became the first cosmonaut from a state other than the then Soviet Union and the United States of America. The European Space Agency is referred to as the first Evropan in space. Thanks to Vladimír Remek's flight, Czechoslovakia has thus become a third country whose citizen made a trip to space. The extraordinary success in science and technology as well as the contribution to the fame of our homeland in the world was reflected in the huge popularity of Václav Remek. Antonín Mrkos even named the planetist number Mrkos after him, which he discovered in September 1978 by observing from the observatory on Clet, and brought him several honours. The importance of the space mission and the personality of the cosmonaut itself is also evidenced by recent appreciation. In 2008 for the 30th anniversary of the space flight, Vladimír Remek was awarded the Association of Airmen of the Czech Republic. In addition, this anniversary was also celebrated in the European Parliament and the European Commission or the European Space Agency took over the patronage of this event in addition to the European Parliament. As a soldier, Vladimír Remek served the state for three decades. Gradually passed the functions from the fighter pilot to the deputy commander of the air division. Later he worked at the Embassy of the Czech Republic in Moscow. From 2004 to 2013, he represented the Czech Republic in the European Parliament, where he was one of the well-known and active Members. Its work has been shown, for example, in the development of the European Global Navigation Satellite System Galileo. He greatly contributed to the location of Galileo's headquarters in the Czech capital. For the next four years, he was head of the Czech Embassy in Russia. Vladimír Remek is a respected person in the Czech Republic and the world. Its historical work and current action contributes to the development of science and technology and to the fame of our country abroad. That is why I believe that the Order of the White Lion would deserve specially excellent credit for the state. I would like to ask the President of the Republic to lend this order to Vladimír Remek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jan Řehounek will now speak in the general debate, Mr Milan Pour will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on three of my proposals. I'll try to be brief so we won't be here long because of me. The first one proposed on the Order of the White Lion is Mr.František Pecháček. He was an important official of the Czechoslovak municipality of Sokol and the leading representative of the Sokol Resistance during the years of World War II. After World War I, which he experienced on the Italian front, he entered the Czechoslovak army and led a school for training the physical fitness of the army. He helped establish a similar school in Great Britain. He also became a member of the gymnastics racing team of the Czechoslovak Sokol village, with which he won the title of World Champion in 1922. Later he became head of the training school of the Czechoslovak Sokol village in Tyršův dům and participated in the upbringing of the generation of falcons and falconies, which stood face to face with two totalitarians. For the Olympic Games in Berlin 1936 he prepared a composition called Sokol Library, which symbolized the fundamental importance of Sokol in the defence system of the Czechoslovak Republic. He was also the author of the most famous Sokol Song of the Oath of the Republic, which was demonstrated by 30,000 men at Strahov Stadium in 1938 as the strongest demonstration of the nation's determination to defend Czechoslovakia. [[15.30 hours]] After the outbreak of the war he became the Earth's commander of the resistance organization Sokolská village in the resistance and later Jindra organization. He collaborated with paratroopers from Great Britain and was one of the main supporters of the assassination of Reinhard Heydrich. After his arrest, he resisted brutal torture without betraying his fellow soldiers. His wife Emílie, also a sokol trainer, was murdered in Mauthausen on January 26, 1943, he himself in the same place on February 3, 1944. František Pecháček spent his whole life fulfilling patriotic and sokol ideals. Personally in the person of František Pecháček I see an extraordinary personality of our history of the first half of the 20th century. Sokol, excellent athlete, soldier, author of the most famous meeting composition, leader of the anti-Nazi resistance, who did not give up his ideals until the last moments of his life. So much for the person of František Pecháček. The second person I dare propose for the Medal of Merit is Dr. Emil Martinec. The trade union leader Dr. Emil Martinec was born on 21 January 1869 in Horní Jelení in eastern Bohemia, near my home town Pardubice. He graduated from law at Charles University, and in 1895 he joined the services of financial administration and at the District Financial Directorates in Uherské Hradiště and Brno he focused mainly on the administration of excise duties, duties and monopolies. After the creation of a separate Czechoslovak state he was called to the Ministry of Finance in November 1918 and entrusted with the organization of customs services. Since the beginning of his ministry at the Ministry of Finance he has devoted all his spare time to creating a new Customs Act. He was also adopted thanks to his professional persuasion by the legislators and in 1927 he was declared with an implementing regulation. This created a very modern legislation which laid the basis for customs of the Czechoslovak Republic, protection of its economy and foreign trade activity and a model for legislation in this area of the whole modern world. Martinc's Martincův experience was used at a time of economic crisis when it was necessary to regulate foreign trade by the so-called foreign exchange commission, whose head was since 1932. Since 1934, he has also been a government commissioner of the Czechoslovak Crop Society, even after his retirement at the end of 1934. In the person of Dr. Martinec, I really see the founder of the modern Customs Service, which we know until today. And the last person I dare propose for the medal of heroism is Karel Bezdíček, a native of Sezemice, near Pardubice. I submit a proposal to grant In memoriam to Karel Bezdíček, the battalion of the famous Najdar Company, who fought in France's first world war against the common enemy of Čech and Francouz, and thus contributed to the creation of independent Czechoslovakia. In the battle of Arras May 9, 1915 in the fight against the German enemy battalion Karel Bezdíček fell in his only 27 years. Only briefly biography: He was born in Vienna, but he moved to Sezemice with his family shortly after his birth. After graduating, he followed the pattern of his father and in the footsteps of older siblings back to Vienna and later to a country he believed to be a country of freedom, France. That was in 1912. Already during his stay in Paris he joined the compatriotic life and did not forget his country, where he became perhaps a truly zealous member of the Parisian Sokol. After the outbreak of World War I, France decided that all foreigners could fight only within the French Foreign Legion. Karel Bezdíček decided to fight on the side of France against the common enemy as soon as it was possible to join the French legion. He was assigned to the 1. company battalion C within the march regiment of the foreign legion. The company consisted of about 250 volunteers and according to their sokol greeting it also gained its designation of Nazdar Company. In this company battalion officer Karel Bezdíček worked until his death on 9th May 1915. Just to the brink: 10 years after the anniversary of his death, the association of former Czechoslovak volunteers on the occasion of the 10th anniversary of the battle of Nazdar company near Arras revealed a memorial in France, in the place of the fights of Nazdar company near La Targette and Neuville-Saint-Vaast. At the same time on May 10, 1925, the sezemická unity of the Czechoslovak Legionary community with the support of the town of Sezemice and other associations of the battalion battalion company Nazdar Karel Bezdíček's memorial. The story of the prematurely completed life of Karel Bezdíček is also the story of the entire Nahya Company, the story of Czech legionnaires on the Western Front during World War I. I believe that the medal for Karel Bezdíček's heroism would be awarded rightfully. Thank you for the time you have devoted to the presentation of the persons I have proposed, and thank you for supporting my proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u23	Thank you. Mr Milan Pour is now next in the general debate. Mrs Richterová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues. I would like to ask for your support in voting on the proposal to award a State Medal for Merit in Science to an important Czech scientist and university teacher, professor of science doctor Bohumír Janský, candidate for science. The Czech geographic society has proposed state honours to this important scientist, and I have adopted this proposal for honours. I will now briefly imagine Professor Bohumír Janský. Professor Janský is currently probably the most famous Czech geographer at home and abroad. He is President of the Czech Ibero-American Society and served as President of the Czech Geographical Society between 2014 and 2018. In particular, the organization of two international expeditions, where the sources of the world's largest Amazon river were discovered and first mapped into the awareness of our and foreign geographical community. He and his team also made a significant contribution to Central Asian Kyrgyzstan in the framework of two projects of Czech development cooperation and NATO project, where an international team of researchers led. In 2007 he received the highest state honors from President Peru for scientific activities in his field. For extraordinary merit with the right to use the nobility of the comtura for long-term pedagogical activities at Peruvian universities and for research of Amazon sources. In 2009, he was awarded the prize of the Minister of Environment of the Czech Government for the lifelong contribution of environmental protection. Professor Janský won the Donatio Universitatis Carolinae award in 2019 as part of the support of important scientific figures, which make an exceptional contribution to the prestige of Charles University. profesor Janský also appreciated the National Committee for Hydrology at UNESCO in 2001 by granting plaque Homo Barbatus for research results in the field of hydrology and geography and for promoting Czech hydrology in South America and the world. Professor Janský is currently also a member of the Scientific Council of many universities, such as Charles University, Liberec Technical University, Faculty of Tropical Agriculture of the Czech University of Agriculture in Prague. Since 1990 he has attended more than fifty lectures at international conferences virtually all over the world and is also the author or co-author of many dozens of professional publications. The results of the international projects of Professor Janský and his team were presented in exhibitions such as Karolina Cross Hall, the Senate of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic, and the three documentary films of Czech Television. The portrait of Bohumír Janský was also included in the series Czech Television GEN - Gallery of the elite nation in 2018. [[15.40 hours]] I am therefore convinced that Professor Bohumír Janský, for his considerable contribution in science in our country and abroad, rightly deserves to be awarded a State Medal for Merit in Science. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u25	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear. After that, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal applied with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly introduce the two women I have proposed for a state honor, and I would very much like them to receive it. Mrs Vlasta Faiferlíková - I will begin with - is a person who may not be widely known, but represents a number of people on whom our society stands. He is the Vice-President of the National Volunteers Association, so in his spare time he devotes himself to the systemic support of volunteering and gradually began to do so professionally in her life. For 20 years now, the Intergenerational and Voluntary Centre has been running, linking people of all generations, of all ages and of different life experiences. What I would point out is two numbers. In fact, thanks to Mrs Faiferlíková's work in Pilsen and around Pilsen, they have professionally trained, well-managed volunteers, in the number of 2,500 people. Such a number of people were able to become volunteers because of their energy and their mission in life, to connect. It meant a huge amount of help during the covid. That's the second number I'm going to stress. Thanks to the existing intergenerational, community, volunteer center, it was very easy to connect lonely people, especially seniors, with volunteers, so several hundred seniors were connected with quick, timely assistance thanks to Mrs Faiferlíková. Then they were able to register and accompany the vaccination in the next stages. What I think is so symbolic about the story and the value of appreciation is just lifelong efforts to support others, thousands of other people, without highlighting themselves. This is therefore Mrs Faiferlíková's nomination for volunteering and intergenerational coexistence activities. The second nominee is Professor Iva Holmerová for her life's efforts on education and support in the area of good ageing. Mrs. Holmerová is a doctor, and since her studies she has been interested in care in old age, so-called gerontology, but she has linked health and social aspects. Gradually, she began to devote herself to Alzheimerův's disease, and today she is the president of Alzheimer's Europe. For your idea, Alzheimer's Europe brings together 37 member organisations from 33 countries in Europe. So it is a huge international organization that imparts good practice, an organization that has a huge reputation. Only really to highlight what Dr. Holmerová brought to our company: when she was missing something, she founded it, so, for example, she founded the Czech Alzheimer's Society or also the Gerontological Centre in Prague 8 and was also the chair of the Committee of the Czech Gerontological and Geriatric Society. All this from the point of view of the person who studied medicine, but now professionally guarantees a doctoral study program of longevity at the Faculty of Humanities at Charles University. On this brief profile, I want to show that it is once again about linking and supporting many other people, about education in the area that concerns each of us in the finals, namely in the area of good ageing, and about many years of selfless activity and support for others, for example in the position of founder and chair of a number of organisations dedicated to caring for people, for example with Alzheimer's, but also support for caring and supporting experts. These are therefore two proposals - for the nomination of Ms Holmerová for promoting good ageing and Mrs Vlasta Faiferlíková for promoting intergenerational coexistence and volunteering. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u27	Thank you. Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal with priority rights. Mr. Marek Novák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u28	Thank you for the floor. I apologise to my colleagues that I am getting ahead of myself, but I feel the need as rapporteur to emphasise one thing, namely that if there are any proposals for plenary right now, then it is necessary to join them in a detailed debate, whether they are counter-proposals or whether they are proposals that have been made earlier in the process, and now we are applying to them, or whether they are completely new, then they need to be addressed in a detailed debate. Alternatively, I would ask the plaintiffs to come to me if there were any need to clarify something, for example with the merit medals, then we specify the field or scope to which it relates. And now, allow me to apply to my own proposal, namely the proposal to honor Professor Jan Sokol, by honoring the highest, i.e. the Order of the White Lion in memoriam. Jan Sokol was a Czech philosopher, dissident, translator of philosophical texts, university teacher, publicist, politician and was one of the most important Czech Christian intellectuals. In the 1960s he worked as a programmer, later as a leading researcher on the development of basic software, published several books and a number of articles on computers. Meanwhile, he attended the housing seminars organized by his father-in-law Jan Patočka, who was a very important phenomenologist. It was at the seminars that he gained enthusiasm for philosophy, about which he wrote many publications. He dealt mainly with philosophical anthropology, the history of religion and the anthropology of institutions. He also participated in the ecumenical translation of the Bible. In 1976 he signed the first Charter 77 and contributed to samizdat's work. After the Velvet Revolution, he became Vice-President of the Federal Assembly under the Civil Forum and served as Vice-President of the House of Nations. During January to July 1998, he served as Minister of Education in the government of Prime Minister Josef Tošovský. After leaving politics he became the first dean of the newly established Faculty of Humanities studies at Charles University in 2000 and served for seven years. He received many honours, such as the bearer of the French Order of Honorary Legion. Jan Sokol, and I would personally point out, was one of the most famous media creators of Wikipedia in the Czech Republic. On Czech Wikipedia he initiated the creation of a similar project called Seniors write wikipedia. The Czech branch of the Wikimedia Foundation began to organize courses in editing for seniors and by 2021 over 500 participants passed through them. Jan Sokol himself founded almost 2,000 new articles on Wikipedia, i.e. new encyclopedic passwords. He died on February 16th of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u29	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová has signed up with priority, followed by Mr Novák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me, too, to put forward proposals which have been partially approved by the subcommittee. I'd like to justify them. [[15.50 hours]] First of all, I would like to ask for support for state honours for Mrs Milena Bačkovská. Mr. Růžička, on behalf of the three of us, has already spoken about it. So, Mr Růžička, Mr Bělica, Mr Černochová is proposing - and we will also propose in a detailed debate. In this proposal, you already have two proposals which we have adopted or which we ourselves propose. The first proposal is a proposal for a commendation on the state in the area of state security and citizens for Mr podlukovník . Michal Koudelka. Colonel . Michal Koudelka is the director of the Security Information Service. His medal honours For merit I propose as an expression of appreciation of his very good work, which the BIS did in the investigation of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice in 2014, as well as the ability to resist the permanent discomfort of some of the representatives of our state and the pressures that BIS and Director Koudelka are personally exposed to in the long term by foreign and domestic collaborators of foreign powers. Colonel . Michal Koudelka, after graduating from the Faculty of Construction CTU in 1989, worked for two years in the Project and Engineering Organization of Culture. After graduating from basic military service in 1992, he joined the then Federal Security Information Service. After the breakup of Czechoslovakia in 1992 he became a member of the Security Information Service, where he first worked in the Department of Combating Terrorism, from the beginning of 2006 until his appointment as Director of the BIS then led the Department of Counterespionage. He wasn't a member of the KSČ, he's got top-secret clearance. He has completed two intelligence trainings with the British MI6 Intelligence Service and one intelligence training with the Canadian counterintelligence CSIS. He was appointed the Government of the Czech Republic as Director of the BIS on 27 July 2016 and took office on 15 August 2016. The proposal is submitted by representatives of KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP 09. Another proposal that I would like to justify is my proposal and the proposal of my colleagues from the ODS, who have also adopted this proposal. It's an honor for Alfred Duff Cooper in memoriam. Sir Duff Cooper was a British politician and diplomat, a member of the Conservative Party. He was born into a family of doctors, from his mother's side he was related to a British royal family. He went through the typical education of a young gentleman at Wixenford School, Eton College, and Oxford New College. After graduating from Oxford, he joined the diplomatic services. After taking part in World War I, he became secretary of two ministers and was elected a member of parliament for the first time as conservatives in 1924. After defeating his party in the 1929 elections, he lost his mandate. He succeeded again only in 1931 and in 1935 became Minister of War and later Minister of the Navy. He was one of Prime Minister Chamberlain's biggest critics and his appeal policy. He was opposed to the escalating demands of Hitler's Germany. His principial position led to the resignation of Prime Minister Chamberlain in his cabinet in protest of the signing of the Munich Agreement. After Chamberlainův's radio speech on Germany's claims to the Czechoslovak border, he noted in his journals: "If we leave the Czechs now, or even recommend giving them up, we will be responsible for one of the greatest betrayals in history. If we give up now, it will be the end of England and the end of democracy." After signing the Munich Agreement, he then made a famous statement that was later wrongly attributed to Winston Churchill - and I quote: "Big Britain could have had peace without honor or war with honor, but chose war without honor. " In London's exile, President Edvard Beneš thanked Duff Cooper in writing for his courageous and principled attitude. Cooper was later significantly involved in the famous Norwegian debate in 1940, which led to Chamberlainův's fall. Later he became a minister of the Government of Winston Churchill and subsequently returned to diplomatic services and devoted himself to literature. He was a realist who was very well aware that any concessions to Hitler would not prevent the conflict of war and that these concessions were a betrayal of an alliance and a weakening of the democratic world. He was one of the few brave ones who opposed aggression in tragic days on the part of the threatened Czechoslovak Republic, and therefore his story should not be forgotten and should be awarded the highest state honours in memoriam. Interestingly, David Cameron is a former British Prime Minister and conservative politician. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support our proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u31	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha wants to respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask you, you, Members or colleagues with priority rights, to save your priority right for another vote today, because I think it is undignified when each of the Members who want to make a proposal is preparing for a performance, and suddenly two, three, four with priority rights come in. I think there's a list over there, everyone can sign up properly, so I wouldn't abuse that right, I'd keep it for when it's important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u33	Thank you. Mr Marek Novák entered into the general debate, followed by Mr Václav Votava. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to justify Mrs Pavla Břínková's proposal for a state award for her life's work and contribution to the Czech music scene for the Medal of Merit. Mrs. Pavla Břínková is one of the top artists in the music-dramatic genre and is also the winner of the Thalia Award and two prizes of the Czech Literary Fund. She portrayed a lot of theatrical characters. She published 12 separate singing recitals and received several gold records for them. In Czechoslovakia she was the very first singer to sing compositions of classical operas and musicals on sound carriers, then LP, Magic World of operetta and musicals and other title I would like to dance only. To this day, she has actually published most of them in this genre, and in this genre she is a unique artistic figure. Pavla Břínková is herself a dramaturgist and director. He can capture the auditorium not only with his voice, but also with a narrative in which he gives a glimpse beyond the curtain of his artistic self. She is aware that her minority non-commercial genre will never be in the spotlight, yet she never left it, rather supported by her pedagogical activities, publishing activities and hundreds of recital concerts in cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic and Slovakia. [[16.00 hours]] Although native and vitally anchored in Prague, she collaborated with the Zlin Philharmonic of Bohuslav Martinů and in addition to concerts, two titles were published on sound carriers. She also worked with Lázně Luhačovice, for example. Pavla Břínková has never been honoured in the past by the state honours of the President of the Czech Republic, nor has anyone from this musical-dramatic genre to whom he would devote his entire life. An equally important reason is also its many years of pedagogical activity and scope. Continuously, for example, singing, directing, vocal, physical, authorial selection and professional training, it allowed many young and beginners to embark on their professional career in this musical-dramatic field and in practice also gave them the opportunity to perform as their guests at their own gala concerts. Without exaggeration, it can be said that in the Czech history of this musical-dramatic genre - classical operetta and musical - it was not and is not a more prominent person who, with his lifelong work, will, commitment, artistic performance and dissemination of this genre, personally contributed to its popularization as in the Czech Republic - to specific musical artistic values that became part of the cultural heritage of this field. Dear friends, I beg you to support Mrs Pavla Břínková and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u35	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, before I give the floor to Mr Václav Votav, I will read an apology. Minister Marie Benešová apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologizes today between 15.30 and 22.00 for reasons of work. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, I have proposed a state award, a medal for merit in the field of sport, the legend of our and world motorcycle sport, Mr Miloslav Souček. This proposal is made on the occasion of his life's jubilee - 90 years. I believe that Mr Miloslav Souček deserves this award and that you will also support it. It is an award for long-term sporting activities in the field of motorcycle competitions, in the field of motorcycle development, especially its successful representation of our state in six-day competitions and in the promotion of both Czech motorcyclists, but also of course Czech motorcycles, the work of our workers, our technicians on the development of ČZ motorcycles, but also its other lifelong beneficial social activities. His imprisonment in the Nazi concentration camp Sachsenhausen can also be seen. So I would like to ask you once again to support my proposal for Mr Miloslav Souček. This proposal has been passed by the Organising Committee and is in the resolution of the Organisational Committee. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u37	Thank you. Next will be Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Ondřej Veselý will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for your support for the state honours for the merits of engineer Jiří Králík. Jiří Králík's life has always been tied to ice hockey. He represented us several times in the World Cup. In 1982 and 1985 he was evaluated as the best goaltender of the World Championship and in 1985 he and other colleagues became world champions. Mr. Jiří králík graduated from the Engineering Industrial School in Zlín, then from the University of Technology in Zlín and finally from Charles University. He started playing for the Sport Club Zlín, later Dukla Jihlava and after the World Championship in the eighty-fiveth played for Rosenheim in the then Federal Republic of Germany. In the 1990s he was a coach at Eisbären Berlin, Bundesliga. Mr. Jiří králík is still active as a youth popularizer and at the same time at the JK Agency he organizes the search for the best personalities of the Zlín Region, so it is similar to what we are doing here today, it is only for the Zlín Region. So once again, I would like to ask you to support my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u39	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Veselý will speak in the debate, Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask for the support of my proposal, and I already thank the subcommittee in advance that it also supported it, to award a medal for heroism in memoriam for Lieutenant Colonel Zdeněk Štamprech. Lieutenant Colonel Zdeněk Štamprech was born on 18 February 1889 and was largely taken against his will into the Austro-Hungarian army during the First World War. He participated in the fights on the Russian front, however, at the earliest possible time, he went to the Czechoslovak legions and went through the whole Siberian anabassis. After his return to the first republic, Czechoslovakia, he was assigned to the regiment František Palacký in Písek and there he gradually reached the rank of lieutenant colonel. Following the occupation of our republic by Nazi Germany from the army, he joined the resistance organization Defence of the Nation, within the framework of this organization in 1942 under the Heydrichiad was arrested by the Gestapo and the same year, namely 22. 6. 1942, he was executed along with other members of the National Defence in Lubey near Klatovy. I would add that his family, because it was part of the legion, was subsequently persecuted under the Communist regime. In 2007 he was awarded the Golden Cross of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic in memoriam. I have already presented this proposal for the third time and I hope that this year it will work and that it will be awarded a medal for heroism in memoriam this year as part of the state act on October 28. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u41	Thank you, too, and Mr Tomáš Martínek will take the next step, Mr Jiří Valenta will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u42	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the award of the medals for the merit of Prof. RNDr. David Lukáš, CSc. Professor Lukáš is one of the professors who came at the beginning of the coronation with the concept of cloth drape with pocket, into which it is possible to insert an exchange filter from any effective material. In record time, Professor Lukáš has assembled a new equipment for nanovláken production as well as a team of the Department of Textile and Single-purpose Machines of the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering of the University of Liberec. So people could put ready nanomaterials into homemade cotton drapes with pockets. Professor David Lukáš is the Emeritus Rector of the Technical University in Liberec, working here at the Department of Chemistry in the research team of bioengineering. Professor Lukáš has long been involved in physical processes in electrostatic fibreification of polymer solutions and is the author of a number of publications and patents in this area. One of them is a patent on equipment for the production of polymer nanofibres. The prototype of this device helped in the time of emergency in the production of high filtration efficiency nanofiber layers. Professor Lukáš has already received a regional medal, but you will agree that he and the entire team and volunteers from the Technical University in Liberec deserve state honours. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u43	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Valenta, Mr. Jan Čižinský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly justify my proposal to lend you the Medal for Mrs Anna Váchal's merit. Anna Váchalová was born in the village of Smržovice located on the border of Šumava and the Czech Forest. In an uncontrolled rush of postpartum health complications - including lactation psychosis - her mother cruelly amputated both hands in her wrist with a knife and tried to do the same with her older sister. malý Anička found herself in a hospital for a long time and then in a rehabilitation facility. She spent practically her entire childhood at Jedlicka's Institute. [[16.10 hours]] Despite all the complications associated with her huge handicap, she returned to her normal life, raised three children, and her fate, when her daughter and her son-in-law tragically died, was bravely balanced. For many years she worked as an accountant in Kdyňská Engineering in Kdyně and was also very intensively involved as Chairman of the District Union of the physically disabled, where many people, physically disabled, returned to their appetite for another life. In the 1990s, she was even elected a member of the Czech National Council for two parliamentary periods, and here, particularly through active work in the Social Health Committee, she promoted laws that allowed the disabled to at least partially return to the normal life of society. In her nearly 90's, Mrs Anna Váchalová continues to spread optimism and a good mood among people, always willing to advise and help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u45	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Lubomír Španěl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u46	Thank you. I would like to justify two proposals here, namely Mr Eliot Higgins and Mr Christo Grozev. They are members of the Bellingcat Group and this was the group that helped, her activities helped, among other things, to spread the Vrbětice case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u47	That was quick, thank you. Mr Lubomír Španěl - so far the last one entered into the debate. Then Mr. Lukáš Černohorský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my great honor to propose a state honor from this place, and the Medal of Merit, it could almost be a medal for the merits of culture, basically my native Jan Slabák, who was born 24. 3. 1941 in the Kelčany near Kyjov. Jan Slabák is an internationally recognized musician, trumpeter, bandmaster, composer, arranger and lyricist. Mainly known is the founding of the famous Moravanka Breath Band. Many Moravian songs have become hits that many sing on every occasion to this day. I forgot to say that I propose this together with my colleague Jan Hrnčíř, who is or used to be a singer of a blanese band where he was also a bass player, but basically he learned to play trumpet and songs by Jan Slabák and Moravanka quite often played with the band. I will not read the biography of Jan Slabák, which is really extensive. I'd rather just remind you of Moravanka for a short time. The original intention of Jan Slabák was to create a genrely versatile, but only a studio wind file. But the public interest was enormous, and over the years it grew stronger. The original rhythmic stylization of the folk song won the audience and the popularity of the band Moravanka skyrocketed. The pressure of listeners and agencies for the next concert performance began to conflict with the profession of symphonic players, when after six years members of the band left their permanent jobs in the State Philharmonic and opera orchestra. Moravanka has stabilized as a professional independent body, which has definitely entered the history of Moravian and Czech wind music. Finally, I would like to say that Jan Slabák and the brass band Moravanka not only made it famous Moravian, but to put it together, so Czech and Moravian breath music not only in our country, but also in the world, and especially in the Czech Republic. Thank you, and I'm asking for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u49	Thank you. With a factual remark, Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u50	Thank you. I just want to respond to one small thing that has been said. The petit medal is designed as a medal of merit for the state in the field of culture, so I believe that the wishes of the Member are thus fulfilled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u51	Mr Lukáš Černohorský will speak in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u52	Thank you for the floor. I've come to ask for the support of the proposal to honor Professor Karel Raška. This is a proposal for the Order of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. I'm going to give you a brief tour of his résumé and the reasons why I think he should receive this award. Professor Karel Raška was a very special person who had achieved unique worldwide achievements in his field, and it was mainly due to the fact that Czechoslovakia became an epidemiological power in the second half of the 20th century and that we had a significant improvement and stabilisation of the epidemiological situation. The proposed proposal concerns, above all, his global merit for scientific activity and his enormous efforts to combat one of the most dangerous diseases mankind has ever encountered. He has given the world the most that one can give, saving human lives, which in this case counts in the order of millions. It is thus known worldwide as the author of the world programme for the eradication of smallpox, which represents a highly contagious disease caused by viruses. As director of the infectious disease division in the World Health Organization, he developed a new concept of global eradication, which means a complete eradication of smallpox. It should be noted that at that time almost no one from the World Health Organization believed in the success of eradication, including the Director General, but who believed in Professor Raška's ability. In the first half of the 1960's, the ongoing World Health Organization campaign for the eradication of smallpox was based on a so-called vaccination area. However, this was accompanied by failure. On average, 10 million people were sick with smallpox a year, of which 2 million were succumbed to the disease, and high survivors were often affected by serious consequences, even blindness. Professor Raška focused on obtaining information about the occurrence and monitoring of all factors affecting the occurrence, with emphasis on non-snare outbreaks. However, the implementation of this concept has faced a number of problems both within the World Health Organization and globally. The fight against smallpox thus required not only immense professional commitment, but also excellent negotiating and diplomatic skills. Another important factor, of course, was the acquisition of funds. The world was then politically divided, while at that time the United States did not consider the World Health Organization to be an equal partner and often organized the fight against infections for American money. At that time it was the fight of Američan with measles in the countries of Francophone Africa. In this case, Professor Raška has very cleverly improvised and not only has the measles campaign been linked to a non-sciary campaign, but also to the expansion of the campaign to non-francophone countries. The politically invaluable fact was that everything was to happen not under the head of the United States of America, but under the head of the World Health Organization. His personal authority with leading Soviet experts ultimately contributed to the fact that the Soviet Union, too, began to support the new concept of the eradication of smallpox and contributed with its vaccine. This fact helped overcome the initial revolt of the then Soviet Union, and a unified training of smallpox experts could only be entrusted to the Center for Disease Control in Atlanta, United States. With the mandate of the Director-General of the World Health Organization, Professor Raška flew to the United States of America in the summer of 1965, where he managed to convince President Lyndon Johnson and the American Agency for International Development's advisor on the feasibility of eradication according to a new concept. In his speech on the state of the Union at the beginning of 1966, President Johnson promised support for the eradication of smallpox carried out according to Rashka, an amount of $65 million at the time. [[16.20 hours]] The increase in the fight against smallpox according to Raškův's concept was approved by the World Health Assembly in 1966. Member States have undertaken to support the new eradication campaign. This support was particularly important in the case of countries where smallpox was rooted. The new eradication campaign according to Raška was launched on 1 January 1967 in order to eradicate smallpox from the surface of the country within 10 years and became a priority program of the World Health Organization. Professor Raška, who was responsible for the successful new eradication campaign for nearly four years, returned to his homeland in the autumn of 1970. He left behind a successful intensive eradication campaign, which was organized, operationally, financially, staffly and materially secured. Officially, smallpox was declared exorcised on May 8, 1980. The eradication of smallpox is without any doubt the greatest historical success of the World Health Organization and one of mankind's great achievements. Of course, the eradication of smallpox was a teamwork involving hundreds of experts from around the world, including 20 collaborators and pupils from Professor Raška, as well as tens of thousands of workers from countries where smallpox was endemic. But without the substantial contribution of Professor Raška, smallpox would kill and disfigure today. In this context, it is also necessary to mention the other worldwide success of Professor Raška, the method of monitoring, the so-called surveillance he used to combat smallpox. It was approved by the World Health Organization in 1968 as a fundamental methodological pillar of public health and is still used in the world according to Raškův's concept. In addition to Professor Raška, Professor Alexander Langmuir of the United States of America, a friend of Professor Raška, was also responsible for this. Survey served, among other things, in the United States to identify a new AIDS disease in the 1980s and to find a way out of infectious diseases. It is now globally used in non-infectious diseases, such as cardiovascular or tumor diseases. But that's not the end of the professor's list of achievements. It is necessary to briefly mention, for example, his helping action at the end of World War II in Terezín, when one of the largest epidemics of spotty typhoid in Europe and the lives of thousands of prisoners from the concentration camp were eliminated. Based on his study stay in England in 1947, he founded the National Transfusion Service according to a British model proven by military experience. In the 1950s, he organized the Czechoslovak Antiepidemic Service, standardized microbiological investigative methods for field work, introduced uniform training of workers, ensured close cooperation between field workers and workers of the Central Epidemiology-microbiological Service, which was constantly ready to intervene immediately at the outbreak site. After returning from the World Health Organization, he discovered the true causes of a large-scale tragic and covert epidemic from contaminated Sunar affecting infants, for which he was further persecuted by the standardisation regime. In addition to his tremendous achievements in medicine, Professor Raška was a brave man with a strong character, who was an active participant in the resistance during World War II and did not give in even during the Communist regime. In 1968 he opposed the invasion of Warsaw Treaty troops, but despite all the achievements at home and in the world, he was forced to retire in the early 1970's without entitlement to an old-age pension. Even so, he continued to help and criticize the standardisation regime, as was the case in the case of the already mentioned case of contaminated Sunara. Instead of gratitude, the professor was called an extended hand of Western intelligence headquarters and his name was included in the list of enemies of the state. The references to Professor Rašek have disappeared from textbooks and textbooks. The Communist regime has thus committed a huge injustice against Mr Rašek and may have deprived the whole world of further achievements in the field of epidemiology and microbiology. Unfortunately, it is very sad that even in the last almost 32 years of our democratic establishment, this injustice has not been partially corrected. The Committee of the Society for Epidemiology and Microbiology of ČLS Raška, which started its efforts already in 2008, when a letter was sent to the then president Václav Klaus Sr., together with supporting materials. The letter of the same text with the same materials was sent three more times to President Miloš Zeman in 2013, 2017 and 2018. Unfortunately, none of the proposals were heard. After consulting the Chair of the Committee, Dr. Pavla Křížová, we have thus managed to put together the materials needed for the drafting of a proposal to grant state honours proposed by the Chamber of Deputies. I think it is very important that we appreciate Professor Raška properly and with honours and at least partially repay the debt we have to him as a society, especially today, when we want and desperately need an epidemiologist of his format. I believe that if this time it is proposed by the Chamber of Deputies, this proposal will have a great chance of success. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u53	Thank you, and this was the last application in the general debate. I don't see anyone else logged in, I'm done with the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's an interest in the final word? There is no interest, so we will proceed to the debate in detail, in which I have the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u54	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up on my speech in the general debate and apply to House document number 8560. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u55	Next is Mrs Jana Černochová, Mr Pavel žáček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u56	Very briefly. I sign up for three Members Růžička, Bělica, Černochová on the proposal for a state honour for Mrs Mgr Milena Bačkovská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u57	Thank you. Mr Pavel žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u58	Thank you for the floor. I sign up for the renewed proposal concerning Josef Mašín, Ctirad Mašín, Ctibor Novák, Václav Švéd, Zbyněk Janata and Milan Paumer - I apologize for not mentioning his biogram, born 7. 4. 1931 in Cologne. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u59	Mr Vojtěch Pikal, Mrs Monika Jarošová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the accompanying motion for a resolution, which I have already announced in my introductory words. This is House document 8563 and has also been sent to all of you before the opening of this meeting. Once again, the motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies I. appreciates the extraordinary merits of all individuals, volunteers, companies, associations and other representatives of civil society who, at the time of the pandemic, engaged unselfishly in the production and distribution of drapes, shields and other protective equipment, the development and production of pulmonary ventilators, neighbourly assistance and other voluntary activities, in particular in the field of health and social services, in connection with the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic; II. Calls on the municipalities and the regions to appreciate their representatives of civil society within their separate remit; III. He says thanks to all doctors, health professionals, crisis workers, members of the Security Corps, as well as to all other professions concerned in public service and in the private sector, who help to manage the crisis situation associated with SARS-CoV-2 with exemplary performance of their work duties in increased intensity and under often significantly difficult conditions." Here I would remind you that hospitals are far from empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u61	Thank you. Mrs Monika Jarošová and Mr Ondřej Veselý will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u62	I want to sign up for my Ing nomination. Vladimír Remek to win the Order of the White Lion. I have given detailed reasons for this proposal in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u63	Thank you. Mr Veselý and Mr Holík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I will also sign up for the medal for heroism in memoriam for Mr. podplukovník. František Štamprech, who I justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u65	Thank you. Mr Holík - the last one entered into a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u66	Hello. I will also join my proposal for the Ing medal. Jiří Králík. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u67	Thank you. I don't see anyone else logged in electronically or from the point of view in a detailed debate. I am ending the debate in detail. I will ask the rapporteur to guide us through the voting procedure. It's a lot. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your cards. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You're right, it won't be easy. There is quite a lot to be done, so we will vote - as I have announced - on all proposals by name, then we will adopt a final resolution which we will actually agree to with the proposals as a whole, and then we will vote on the accompanying resolution that I have read here. As for the proposals that came during the dime, I always put them at the end of the list. With regard to the proposal for the award of the White Lion Order to Mr Vladimír Remek, if this proposal were accepted, I would consider the proposal for the award of the Medal of Merit for the same person unvoted because it is customary not to award two honours. That is one thing I would consider important to mention. Then I would mention that among the merit medals is Mrs Jarmila Fabiánová, who is proposed by Mr Feri, who is no longer among us, but I assume that no one is opposed to voting on this proposal normally. That's probably all I think we need to mention right now, so just one more time for the procedure. We will vote first on names, as you have it in Houses of Document 8439, i.e. a proposal from the Organising Committee, where the possibility of lending in Part I is then added. Order of white lion to Vladimír Remek in military group, then in medals It will be complementary for heroism and, as the fourth, we will vote on Mrs Olza Mauleová and then on Mr Žáček's other proposals within the Mašín Brothers Group. I'm not gonna read it all now. After voting all 30 proposals for the Medal of Merit, there are two new proposals, first as 31. Mrs Zdena Wasserbauerová and as 32. Mrs Mgr Milena Bačovská. I think that's how I summarized all the new proposals. If anyone feels that I've forgotten any of the new designs, please log in now so we don't hunt it later. That was the procedure, that is, the proposals in that order, then the overall resolution, then the accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u69	Thank you. You've all understood the procedure presented. I'll have this procedure approved by the vote. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 292, registered 146, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. I will ask the rapporteur to take us through the vote, and I will ask for peace in the Chamber, so that we know what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u70	Yes, thank you. First it's under the I. Order of the White Lion. First, we'll vote for the award. First up, it's his turn to hand over to Army General Ludvík Svoboda in a military group, in memoriam. Here I think there is no need to imagine this personality any more clearly, but I would like to point out that it has already received the Order of the White Lion in 1946 from President Beneš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u71	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 293, registered by 143 Members, for 69, against 1. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u72	Thank you. The second is proposed by Colonel Jaroslav Hofrichter in a military group, also in memoriam. It's a RAF bomber that survived the war.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u73	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 294, registered 150 Members, for 142, was against no one. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u74	I realized that I don't read who designed and who adopted. Sorry about that. As the third proposal, Colonel Jan Horal, MBE, is a civil group, in memoriam. The designer is citizen Jiří Kopal. I adopted this proposal. He is a war veteran and also important his philanthropic activity later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u75	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 295, 151 Members signed in, for 127, there was no one against. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u76	Thank you. Next there is a proposal for honours by the Order of the White Lion of Professor Jan Sokol, D, CSc, in the civic group, in memoriam. Jan Sokol was a Czech philosopher and dissident, translator of philosophical texts, university teacher, publicist, politician and wikipedist. Designer Vojtěch Pikal, adopted Vojtěch Pikal, Věra Kovářová, Jan Čižinský, Dominik Feri and Pavel žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u77	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 296, registered by 153 Members, for 102, against 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u78	Thank you. Under number five, there's a proposal to honor Alfred Duff Cooper in a civil group, in memoriam. The group of plaintiffs and adopters is the same, it is Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Ivan Adamec, Jan Bauer, Marek Benda, Jan Skopeček, Martin Baxa, Petr Beitl, Petr Bendl, Stanislav Blaha, Pavel Blažek, Libor Hoppe, Jakub Janda, Karel Krejza, Martin Kupka, Jaroslav Martinů, Vojtěch Munzar, Bohuslav Svoboda, Pavel šindelář, Jaroslav Vymazal, Jan Zahradník, Pavel žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u79	I'd just say we don't have to read all the plaintiffs. All we need is the basic three. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 297, registered 155 Members, for 125, against 1. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u80	Thank you. Next is a proposal for the honour of František Pecháček in civic group, in memoriam. František Pecháček was an important sokol official during the first republic, then a significant participant in the second resistance, including participation in the Anthropoid operation. He and his wife were executed in Mauthausen. The designer is Jan Řehounek, also adopted by Pavel žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u81	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 298, registered is 155 Members, for 152, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u82	Thank you. The next proposal is George Islay Macneill Robertson, Baron Robertson of Port Ellen. It's a proposal in a civil group. The designer is Vít Rakušan and members of the STAN. He was a member of the House of Lords of the British Parliament, former Minister of Defence, NATO Secretary General from 1999 to 2004, i.e. when the Czech Republic approached the North Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u83	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 299, registered by 151 Members, for 61, against 19. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u84	Thank you. Another proposal is Josef Fikr in civil group, in memoriam. The designer is Mr. Válek. He's a legionnaire, a member of the second resistance. He was imprisoned by the Nazis, died at the very end of the war as a victim of mass executions of prisoners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u85	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 300, registered by 154 Members, for 148, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u86	Thank you and the other proposal is Mr. Jiří Štokman in the military group, in memoriam. The proposer is Mrs Gajdůšková, and Mr Žáček has adopted it. He is a member of the second resistance, later foreign army, parachutist from the away team Clay. He survived until the end of the war. After 1948 he emigrated and participated in intelligence activities along with General Moravec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u87	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 301, 154 Members are enrolled, 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u88	Thank you. Then there is a proposal to lend because it is a living person who is a citizen of the Czech Republic, namely Mr. Vladimír Remk, in a military group. It is the first Czechoslovak astronaut, former MEP and ambassador in Russia. I will point out that he has already been awarded the highest state honors in the past, by the Order of Clement Gottwald.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u89	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 302, 153 Members registered, for 93, against 1. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u90	Thank you. We have exhausted the Order of the White Lion and move on to the next highest state honor, which is the Order of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. Here is a proposal to grant this order to profesor. Karel Rašek, DrSc, in memoriam. The proposal is made by Mr Černohorský, Mrs Kovářová and Mr Čižinský adopted it as well. It is an exceptional person who has achieved success in the area of epidemiological warfare and stabilisation of the epidemiological situation in the second half of the 20th century.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u91	I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting order number 303, 154 Members signed in for 145, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u92	Thank you. Another proposal is the proposal to lend the order to Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk, because he is once again a living person. It's Mrs. BC Vlasta Faiferlíková. It is Mrs Richterová's suggestion. She is Vice-President of the National Volunteers Association and many-year-old director of the Pilsen Centre Totem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u93	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 304, 153 Members signed in for 61, no one opposed. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u94	This brings us to the third group, which is a medal for heroism, where there were then the most proposals for plenary. The first is the proposal to grant this medal to podplukovník. František Štamprech, in memoriam. He is a legionnaire who was executed by the Nazis, he also received the Cross of State Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u95	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 305, 152 Members signed in for 145, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u96	Thank you. Next, there is a motion to award the medal to Emil Šneberg, the plaintiff is Mr Kobza. Šneberg is a retired colonel and is one of the last living direct participants of the Prague Uprising at the end of World War II.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u97	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 306 is signed by 152 Members, for 97, against 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u98	Thank you. Another proposal for the award of the medal For heroism is Mr. Karel Bezdíček, in memoriam. These are legionnaires, the battalion of the company Hello. He fell in the battle of Arras. [[- Designer?]] Sorry, the plaintiff is Mr. Řehounek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u99	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 307, 151 Members registered, for 138, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u100	Thank you. Now we're getting to the stuff that fell on the plenary floor here, so next up, Mrs. Olga Mauleová, in memoriam, is proposed. The designer is President Vondráček. It is a war veteran who joined the trade union and died in November 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u101	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 308, 152 Members signed up, for 146, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u102	Thank you. Now there are Mr. Žáček's proposals from the Mašín Brothers Group. I'll take it quick, so first it's a proposal to award a medal for the heroics of Josef Mašín Junior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u103	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 309, registered by 143 Members, for 33, against 40. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u104	Thank you. Another is also a member of the Mašín brothers Ctirad Mašín, in memoriam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u105	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 310, registered by 144 Members, for 35, against 40. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u106	Thank you. Another proposal is also a member of the Mašín brothers Milan Paumer, in memoriam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u107	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 311, 145 Members registered, for 34, against 35. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u108	Thank you. Another proposed member of the Mašín group is Václav Švéda, in memoriam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u109	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 312, registered 144 Members, for 34, against 30. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u110	Thank you. Another member of the Mašín Group, which is designed by Mr Zbyněk Janata, in memoriam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u111	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 313, registered is 144 Members, for 33, against 30. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u112	Thank you. The last one proposed in this group is Mr. Ctibor Novák, who was Uncle Mašín. He participated in the anti-Nazi resistance and did not participate directly in the group's actions, however he was connected with the group after their escape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u113	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 314, 144 Members signed in, for 39, against 30. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u114	Thank you. We have exhausted the medal for heroism and are moving on to the longest part, which is the Medal for Merit. They're all proposals for granting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u115	Mr Kupka to vote, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u116	I just wanted to get the tape: I voted in favour of the 297 vote, I'm against it at the high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u117	Thank you. Proceed, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u118	Thank you, so the first among the proposals for the award of the Medal of Merit is Mrs. JUDr. Jarmila Fabiánová for the credit of the state. The designer is Nicolas Roman Fabian and the master was Mr. Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u119	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 315, 151 Members registered, for 5, against 0. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u120	Thank you. Another proposal is a proposal for the award of the Medal of Merit for the State in the field of sport Ing. George Rabbit. The proposer is Mr Holík. Other members of the SPD MPs have also adopted this. Mr. Jiří králík is a former hockey goalie, a ice hockey world champion from 1985, a member of the Hockey Hall of Fame, and is now involved in many other activities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u121	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 316, 152 Members registered, for 98, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. We have quite a lot of votes to get into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u122	Thank you. Another proposal for the honour is Mrs Pavla Břínková, for the merit of the state in the field of art. The proposer is Mr Novák, Mr Berkovec adopted it too. It is a person with superior artistic reputation across the artistic community, recognized by personalities and other artistic genres.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u123	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 317, 151 Members registered, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u124	Thank you. The next one is Mrs. Anna Váchalová for her contribution to the state. The proposer is Mr Valenta. She is the former President of the District Association of Disabilities. In the 1990s, she was a member of the Czech National Council during the Communist Party - KSČM - and Left Block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u125	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 318, 152 Members registered, for 66, against 0. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u126	Thank you. The next proposal is the honour of . arch. Miroslav Řepa medals for the merits of the state in the field of culture. The proposer is Mr Nacher. This was also taken by Mr. Mr. Kolovratník. He is an important architect who is the author or co-author of the Czechoslovak Pavilions from the World Exhibition Expo 1997 and 1970. He was also director of the technical pavilion at the Expo in 1992. He participated, among other things, in reconstructions of the National and Estates Theatre in Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u127	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 319, 153 Members registered, for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u128	Thank you. Another proposed is Jan Zábrana, for the merit of the state in the field of culture and art, in memoriam. The designer is citizen Libor Kráčmera. Members Pavel Žáček and Jan Čižinský adopted this. He is a Czech poet, translator, prozaic and essayist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u129	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 320, 153 Members signed in, for 128, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u130	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal for a medal by profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc, for the merit of the state in the field of science and security of citizens. The proposer is Mr Luzar. He's an epidemiologist and a vaccinologist. During the Coronavirus crisis, the Ministry of Health was identified as one of the well-known personalities of often promoting disinformation. This was later downloaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u131	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 321, 154 Members registered, for 64, against 4. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u132	Thank you. Another is proposed by Mr. Miloslav Souček for his contribution to the state in the field of sport. The proposer is Mr Votava. It is a legend of the Czech motocross. He was a master of Czechoslovakia four times and there are other sports achievements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u133	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 322 is registered 154 Members, for 122, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u134	Thank you. Another proposal is a proposal for the honour of profesor RNDr. David Lukáš, CSc, For the merit of the state in the field of science, technology and security of citizens. The designer is Mr Martínek and is the Emeritus Rector of the Technical University in Liberec. The prototype of his patent helped in the time of emergency in the production of nanofiber layers with high filtration efficiency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u135	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 323, 154 Members signed in for 135, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u136	Thank you. Another proposal is to honor profesor RNDr. Bohumil Janský, CSc, for the merit of the state in the field of science. The designer is Pavel Chromý, adopted by Members Pour and Berkovec. He is a Czech geographer, scientist and university educator who is very focused on the issue of drought.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u137	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 324, 154 Members signed in, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u138	Thank you. The next proposal is to honor JUDr. Martin Smolek, ., M, For merit in the security of citizens. The proposer is Mr Dolínek. He is the Deputy Head of the Legal and Consular Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He participated in the repatriation of Czech citizens back to his homeland during the first wave of coronavirus. He is also a Czech agent before the EU Court of Justice and is currently an active civil servant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u139	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 325, registered 154 Members, for 58, against no one. The motion was denied. [[Noise in the hall.]] I'd like to ask you to calm down! I know it's been a long time, but by being noisy here, we're not gonna speed it up. Please, another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u140	Thank you. We will not vote on another proposal because this personality has already been proposed for higher state honours, so we will move on to proposal number 13, which is Eliot Ward Higgins, a proposal for the award of the Medal of Merit for the State of Citizens Security. The proposer is Mr Čižinský. It is a British civil investigative journalist, founder and director of the Bellingcat Group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u141	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 326, registered by 155 Members, for 58, against 7. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u142	Thank you. The next proposal is to honor Mr Christo Grozev with the Medal of Merit for the State in Security. He is a Bulgarian journalist of the civil investigative website Bellincat, focused on the activities of Russia and its armed forces and secret services. He's a zopp... for identifying the suspects from the poisoning of double agent Skripal and his daughter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u143	Who's suggesting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u144	The proposal is also made by Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u145	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 327: 154 Members, for 56, against 7. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u146	Thank you. Another proposal for the honour of the colonel. . Michal Koudelka medals Merit for the state in the security of the state and citizens. The designer is Mr Čižinský, Members of Bartošek, Benešík, Čižinský, Bělobrádek, Golasowská, Juránek, Jurečka, Kaňkovský, Mihola, Výborný, Langšádlová, Pekarová, Válek, Černochová and Žáček. He's the director of the BIS service. President Zeman has long refused to appoint him general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u147	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 328, 154 Members signed in for 78 against 26. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u148	Thank you. Another proposal is the award of Mrs. Jiřina Uherková's medal For the merits of the state in the field of culture, education and education, in memoriam. The designers are Silvie Langrová and Veronika Nürbergerová, adopted by Members Farský and Mrs Kozlová. This is the choirmaster and teacher, founder of the children's choir Severáček in Liberec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u149	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 329, 153 Members signed in for 105, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u150	Thank you. The next proposal is to honor JUDr. Emil Martinec For the merits of the state in the field of economic, in memoriam. The proposer is Mr Řehounek. This was the first priority of the Ministry of Finance and the organizer of customs services. He laid solid foundations for Czechoslovak customs law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u151	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 330, 152 Members signed in for 111, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u152	Thank you. Another proposal is for the honour of Mr. Jan Slabák Merit for the state in the field of culture. The designer is Mr. Hrnčíř. He is a Czech trumpeter, educator and bandleader, founder of the Moravanka brass band.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u153	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 331, 153 Members registered, for 133, no one opposed. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u154	Thank you. Another proposal is a proposal for the honour of Jakub Valík medals For the merits of the local self-governing body in the field of education. The designer is Mr. Rakušan. He is a graduate of the Prague Institute of Political Studies of the Faculty of Social Studies of Charles University. Together with other colleagues, he initiated and founded the project Necessary Computer, which the initiative collects old computers, fixes them and gives gifts to the needy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u155	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 332, 153 Members signed in, for 62. There was no one against him. The motion is denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u156	Thank you. The next proposal is for the honour of Eva Bělohlávková For the merits of the territorially self-governing community in the area of economy and citizens' security. The designer is Mr. Rakušan. She is a lab technician who herself during the pandemic set up her own collection site in a clinic in Sokolovsko, where she regularly tests every Sunday, along with volunteers, citizens who travel abroad for work and need tests.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u157	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 333, 152 Members registered, for 69, against no one. The motion is denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u158	Thank you. Another proposal for the decorated MUDr. Petr Smejkal For the merits of the state in the field of science and security. The designer is Mr. Rakušan. He is a Czech doctor and chief epidemiologist of the IKEM Institute. It is also the head of the Interdisciplinary Group for the epidemic situations of the MESSES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u159	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 334, registered by 151 Members, for 51, against 13. The motion is denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u160	Thank you. The next proposal is to honor profesor Ing Michal Mejstřík, CSc, in the field of economy and science, in memoriam. The designer is Mr. Rakušan. He is an important and influential Czech economist and professor of Charles University. He participated in the establishment of the Centre for Economic Research as well as the doctoral studies of CERGE. From 2009 to 2014, he was a member of the National Budget Board. At the time of the pandemic he was a member of the economic advisory team of the Central Crisis Staff as well as the expert group Koro-NERV and died at the age of 68 from the disease COVID-19.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u161	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 335, 153 Members signed in for 126, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u162	Thank you. Another proposal is a proposal for the honour of Jan Smejkal Merit for the territorial self-governing community in the area of citizens' security. The designer is Mr. Rakušan. Mr. Smejkal is a young businessman who handed out thousands of respirators during the coronavirus crisis and bought machines for hospitals. He also supported children's homes by buying computers on-line teaching.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u163	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 336, registered by 153 Members, for 35, against 1. The motion is denied. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u164	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal for a docent medal. MUDr. Iva Holmerová's For Merit about the State of Science. The applicant is Mrs Richterová. She is President of Alzheimer's Europe, member of the INTERDEM Committee, founder of the Czech Alzheimer's Society, member of the Committee of the Czech Gerontological and Geriatric Society and founding director of the Gerontological Centre in Prague 8.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u165	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 337, 152 Members signed in, for 107, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u166	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal for Ing's honour. Ladislav Michálek Merit for the state in the field of culture. The proposer is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. These are founders of Children's Folklore Days in Liptál. He was Vice-President of the Folklore Association of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u167	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 338, registered by 153 Members, for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u168	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal to honor profesor . Petr Sáha, CSc, Medal of Merit for the State in Education and Science. The proposer is Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. These are representatives of the town of Zlín. He has already received the Silver Commemorative Medal of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and is a scientist involved in research of polymers, Rector of the University of Tomáš Bata.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u169	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 339, 152 Members registered, for 82, against no one. The motion is accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u170	Thank you. The next proposal is a proposal for the honour of profesor PhDr Stanislav Kratochvíl, CSc, For the merit of the state in the field of science. Once again, Mrs Gajdůškovášková is the proposer. He is a clinical psychologist who mainly deals with psychotherapy, especially neuroses, hypnosis, marital therapy, other therapies. From the 1950s until 2017, he worked in a psychiatric hospital in Kroměříž. He raised dozens of psychologists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u171	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 340, 153 Members signed in for 95, no one opposed it. The motion is accepted. Next suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u172	Thank you. Another proposed is Mr. Karel Pacner for the merits of the state in the field of science and education, in memoriam. The applicant is Mrs Kovářová. He was a Czech publicist, journalist and writer. He devoted himself to the popularization of science.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u173	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 341, registered by 151 Members, for 120, against no one. The motion is accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u174	Thank you. Another one designed is docent. MUDr. Vilma Marešová, CSc, for the merits of the state in the field of science and education. The applicant is Mrs Kovářová. It is the emeritus leader of the first infectious clinic of the 2nd Faculty of Medicine of Charles University, Hospital in Bulovka in Prague and former head of the Department of Infectious Diseases of the Institute of Postgraduate Education. It is called "the first lady of Czech infection."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u175	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 342, 153 Members registered, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u176	Thank you. Another proposed is Dr. Vladimír Kučera for the merits of the state in the field of education, in memoriam. The proposer is Mrs Kučerová. [[Correct, Blacksmith.]] He was a Czech journalist, publicist, screenwriter, in recent years of his life especially known as the presenter of the television programme History.cs .
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u177	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 343, in favour of 152 Members, for 93, was against no one. The motion is accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u178	Thank you. Another proposed is Mrs. Zdena Wasserbauerová for the Medal of Merit for the State in Education. The designer is President Vondráček. She is an important promoter of bone marrow donation, which goes around schools and workplaces, organizes lectures and collects new people into the register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u179	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 344, 153 Members registered, for 135, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u180	Thank you. The last proposal that we will vote on from these is the proposal for Mgr's honour. Milena Bačovská medals For the merits of the state in the field of security. [[Members are repairing the name from the hall. The President: Bačkovská.]] Bačkovsky, I'm sorry, that's when it's last minute. So it's a proposition for Mgr's honor. Milena Bačkovská Medal For Merit about the state in the field of security. The proposers are Members Růžička, Mrs Černochová and Mr Bělica. And it's the merit of weapons legislation. He is the head of the department at the Ministry of the Interior, an active civil servant. [[17.20 hours]] And it's the merit of weapons legislation. He is the head of the department at the Ministry of the Interior, an active civil servant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u181	I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 345, registered by 153 Members, for 86, against 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u182	Thank you. If I've watched this well, it should be all proposals for state honors, so now we should vote on the proposal as a whole. I believe you have a resolution ahead of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u183	I have read it: "The Chamber of Deputies presents to the President of the Republic pursuant to Section 8 of Act No. 157/1994 Coll., on state honours, proposals for granting or granting state honours, together with the characteristics of the candidates annexed to this resolution." I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 346, 153 Members signed in for 145, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. The resolution has been approved, we still have accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u184	Yes, there is still an accompanying resolution on three points that I have tabled as House document 8563. All the clubs received it, I don't know if it's necessary to read it again. [[- No.]] I don't think so. So I would like to vote on this accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u185	I shall begin the vote on the accompanying resolution. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote on order number 347, was signed by 152 Members, for 123, against no one. The motion was accepted. I thank the Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u186	Thank you, too. I thank all the applicants and thank all my colleagues from the subcommittee for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-008-510.u187	Thank you. We're going to come up with another point, and that's the point.
