ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u1	336. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 1091/ - third reading The Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček have already taken their place at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who was the Security Committee, the rapporteur is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 1091/2, which was delivered on 7 May 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 1091/3 and 4. The appellant is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. You have your word, Minister. [[There's noise in the room.]] Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, very briefly. The amendment was introduced in previous readings. Let me just remind you that it responds to brexit, implements an EU regulation on identity card, and in this context regulates the legal status of more distant family members of EU citizens. Let me take this opportunity to thank, in particular, the members of the Security Committee for the rapid discussion of the proposal, which still allows me to meet the deadline for implementing the EU regulation on identity card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u3	Thank you. I am opening up a debate in which Mr Janulík first came forward. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. I tabled an amendment to this law, in system 8299. In short, just as I justified it at second reading: this amendment defends the interests of doctors to be paid for the work done, for the treatment of foreigners. He corrects decades of injustice. And of course I have... I've heard arguments that it's monopolizing and so on. I can prove to you, I have here a letter from the Competition Authority, which has said so, I note that I am positive. I also turned to the Czech National Bank, its written comments will probably come next week, but so far unofficially, in non-paper form, I can say that the Czech National Bank does not have a major problem with this either. So that is why everyone across the board is asking for the support of this amendment, because, from my point of view, from the point of view of a doctor who won't support him, he prefers business to doctors and medical professionals who have been beaten for years. Any arguments I may be able to justify and explain at any time. Thank you for your support. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u5	Thank you. I have here one point of fact - Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u6	Thank you. I would like to comment on this proposal. I consider this proposal really unreasonable for health insurance, because the foreigners who are here - we talk most about the foreigners who work here - so they come and work and are actually mostly healthy. They finance health insurance, they don't draw much of it. They've been here for some time, often asking for citizenship, permanent residence, that's what they do, and when they're old, they go to state health insurance and they get health care. This means that these proposals - I have to keep the conviction that this is really an unacceptable monopoly - unfortunately, they will deepen the fact that our public health insurance in the years when it contributes, it does not draw, it is very disadvantageous for commercial insurance companies, and for one, and then when they receive health care, they are in public health insurance, which is simply very disadvantageous for public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u7	Thank you. A few apologies. Mrs Jana Krutáková apologizes for today's work-related negotiations, Mrs Karla Maříková apologises from 18:00 for work-related reasons; Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný apologizes today from 9 to the end of the work-related negotiations; Mrs Lenka Kozlová apologizes for health reasons for today's negotiations; and Mrs Marie Benešová apologises for work-related reasons today until 14:30. Mr Kopřiva is enrolled in the debate, Mr Žáček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to address, first of all, the amendment that we have put together with Mr Třešňák and is therefore introduced in the system under his name, and Mr Čižinský, but we have also consulted the Ministry and the Ombudsman's office. Both of these bodies gave a positive opinion on the amendment. It's under number 7803. We are dealing with child health insurance, underage foreigners who do not have access to the public health insurance system at the moment, unfortunately. This irregularity has long been highlighted by various human rights organisations, but it is also the Ombudsman's office. I would now like to quote the passages from the letter from the Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček, which you have all received in your data or e-mail boxes, where he is currently expressing himself and asking the Chamber of Deputies to support this amendment. Even according to him, it brings a solution to the long-term unsatisfactory setting of health insurance for children of foreigners who have a long-term stay here in the territory of our Republic. Unfortunately, these children are now excluded from public health insurance and are dependent on the commercial health insurance system of foreigners, which has already been mentioned here, which in practice causes problems for both the children themselves and their parents to foreigners as well as health care providers, and is therefore long-term criticized. The insurance terms of commercial insurance companies contain a large number of closures, insurance limits and other elements that cause the health care parts of these insurance companies not to be reimbursed. At the same time, commercial insurance companies do not have a legal obligation to enter into an insurance contract, so many foreigners who are sick - which, when a newborn child is born with some health problem, is obviously terribly ill-insulable and really those parents, to whom such a family personal disaster comes out of nowhere, are often forced to pay tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands for postpartum care in newborns. So those newborns often don't have a chance to get health insurance at all, then parents have a problem paying it off, spending goes to the health care provider, and we believe that, as a result, it costs the health system more than if they had access to the public insurance system. The negative effects of the current solution of these children of foreigners with long-term stay thus long-term points out -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u9	I'll stop you for a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. If you're discussing something, go talk it out of the O.R. It is difficult for Members to understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u10	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Šmbudsman Křeček points out, his predecessors, including Mr Otakar Motejl, in the Ombudsman's office, have also repeatedly advised the Chamber of Deputies since 2011, that children of foreigners should be included in public health insurance. "The public health insurance system is the only one able to guarantee insurance for both the necessary health care provided to foreigners and the security of smooth reimbursement of health care provided to those establishments. The inclusion of children with long-term residence in the territory of the Czech Republic in public health insurance would not only increase the cost of the public health insurance system, but, on the contrary, would be economically advantageous for this system, as shown also by the calculation provided in the justification for the relevant amendment. " I have now quoted the Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček, who sent us this statement. I would like to thank and thank my colleagues Třešňák and Čižinský Ministry of Health for a positive opinion. I will just add that this change has long been supported by, for example, the Ethics Committee of the Ministry of Health. So much for our proposal. I will take a short position on this proposal as a whole. Of course, we agree with the need to implement Brexit-related changes as well as the ETIAS Directive. This is probably without reservation and without discussion, we simply have to react legislatively. We also acknowledge that there is an ambition to clarify and level up the rights of close people of Czech citizens or EU citizens, so that the status of an entitled person is established there, for example for unmarried partners or other persons, dependent on, for example, nutrition or care outside spouses and children. We can have fun - we have some reservations about how the status is adjusted, that, for example, during the application procedure, a family member will only be able to reside in the territory of the Czech Republic until the announcement of the decision at first instance, not during the appeal period, or it may complicate the life of the people who are legally living here. Furthermore, there is a questionable impossibility of staying in the territory without a visa if the person concerned is residing in the territory with a European or Czech citizen and has expired his short-stay visa. I myself have noticed problems from the citizens or residents, from the expats, that often there will be some bureaucratic setback, perhaps even by their guilt, that they will not provide a form on time. I don't think there's a whole need to introduce a system that forces them to travel back to their country of origin and go through the whole process again. I think the system might be more welcoming in this. There is, of course, room for some additional electronization, so that applicants who already live here pay taxes, have a clean criminal record and ask for an extension of a permanent or long-term stay, so that they do not have to carry stacks of papers to the office, but that is a little bit more. I suppose there may still be some discussion here on the amendment of my colleague and colleague Janulík and Adámková to whether a monopoly of VZP, a. s. insurance company is being introduced to provide commercial insurance. I thank my colleague for making the arguments in support here, but I do know that there was still a letter from the President of the Antimonopoly Office on the Guarantee Committee, and there was some confusion as to whether the Antimonopoly Office was okay with this amendment, whether or not it supported it. So if the argument could still be heard, we'll be happy and we're certainly still open to discussion. [[9.20 hours]] So I thank you for your attention at the moment, and I would like to ask you to support this proposal, which has a positive opinion from both the Ministry and the Ombudsman. I think it's a logical step for underage children to be entitled to medical care, so that health care facilities have paid for the care. It is therefore the version for underage children of me and colleagues Třešňák, and then there is such a minimalist version of my colleague Čižinský, who only solves newborns, but also our extended version has a positive opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u11	Thank you. Mr Janulík cancels his point of order, so I will ask Mr Žáček to prepare Mr Čižinský for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the amendment, mentioned here, by Mr Janulík and colleague Adámková, which concerns the issue of insurance of foreigners and which goes beyond the legislation originally envisaged. This amendment was uploaded to the system only a few days before the second reading, so it was not possible to respond earlier. However, with this speech, I follow up on what I have already presented to the Security Committee. The Committee on Security, which has taken up as a guarantee the discussions of the proposed amendments, has not delivered an opinion on the proposal, which is why I feel the need to address it today and point out its harmfulness to safety, because I believe that the committee too should have rejected this proposal. There are currently several competing insurers operating on the market who are authorised to provide insurance to foreigners outside the EU, including VZP. Other entities operating in this area are Slavie insurance company, Maxim insurance company, Ergo, IPA - the Belgian insurance company - and UNIQA. However, these other subjects completely ignore and leave everything to one entity, namely the VZP insurance company, so that this amendment by Mr Janulík and Mrs Adámková eliminates the entire insurance sector - the health insurance of foreigners in the range of CZK 750 million prescribed premiums with 80,000 clients or insured foreigners, without reasonable justification and prior expert discussion. We do not know the position of the Czech National Bank - we have now learned that it should not come until next week - as a regulator and at the same time as the entity granting the licence to authorised entities, insurance companies, not to mention a wider expert discussion. Of course, the amendment would also suit the discussions on the subcommittee on banking, insurance and financial markets of the budget committee, because it significantly interferes with the insurance market, but this did not happen because the proposal was clearly not prepared in a long-term and thoughtful manner. On the contrary, we were familiar with the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health on the Security Committee. Both of these opinions agree that the proposal is unacceptable and is an unacceptable restriction on competition and a monopoly for a particular private business entity. The Czech Insurance Association has a negative opinion on the proposal of the Czech Insurance Association, which notes, among other things, that the amendment establishes a monopoly for many years on one of these insurance companies, namely the Public Health Insurance Corporation. Whether it was the plaintiff's intention, we can only speculate, or he can comment here. The adoption of this proposal would restrict the right of a stranger, unlike the right of citizens of the Czech Republic to choose a contractual health facility for complex health care. In the sense of the proposal, a foreigner actually has to choose exclusively from the network of VZP insurance companies, i.e. VZP. I think that's unacceptable. Should this proposal be approved, there is a risk that all the costs and investments of insurance undertakings operating in this sector will be thwarted, which will particularly affect smaller local insurance companies operating in this area. I am reasonably afraid that, in the case of approval of this proposal, arbitration proceedings against the Czech Republic must be taken into account. The health insurance of foreigners has been working for almost 15 years. The comprehensive health insurance was then enacted in 2010. It has undergone several legislative updates for its existence, which have significantly expanded the scope of the services provided in the past. Every year, insurance companies deal with 40,000 insurance events for 80,000 clients. Moreover, insurance responds to trends. Only at present, insurance companies have included new tasks related to the flat-rate payment of transport performance for transport of COVID-19 positive patients, or insurance companies are interested in the inclusion of vaccination against COVID-19 in the scope of the services provided, when it is addressed at the level of the meeting of the association of insurance companies with the Ministry of Health the price of vaccination for clients of insurance companies and the way of their inclusion in the central register. During the many years of operation of this insurance, each provider has built up its network of health establishments, in whose management and update it puts considerable resources. There are no significant complaints about this scope. Moreover, if an emergency service is provided outside the contractual facility, such as emergency intervention, the commercial insurance company will, of course, pay the client and the intervention. The services are paid by insurance companies with contractual means. These are often significantly higher amounts than those collected by health service providers from ordinary health insurance companies. This higher remuneration is evident by the fact that commercial insurance companies conclude commercial contracts, thus attractive to health care providers, and, on the contrary, higher remuneration leads to the strengthening of the financial health of health care providers without state budget claims. The proposal completely ignores the fact that the usual price for monopolization - the price increase - will be paid by the abolition of the entire insurance sector. Monopolization has always led to a reduction in customer service in increasing the remuneration of the monopolist for providing care in the current cost-inefficiency of the monopolyist. The elimination of competition and choice goes against the interest of foreigners themselves and will lead to an increase in price, without the possibility of correcting it. Immediately after the approval of the law, other commercial insurance companies will be put under pressure to release redundant employees in order to continue to pursue their business with the care of a proper economic operator. Similarly, this will be the case with broker networks, which will cease to supply all active entities and will only supply these foreigners to a monopolist. In the current situation, when the number of foreigners is falling due to the ongoing pandemic and there is a persistent shortage of these workers on the labour market, I believe that even economically active foreigners would not be satisfied with the new solution. A significant part of the clients are foreign students coming to study at our universities, when the increase in costs is directly reflected in the reduction of interest in our studies. The possibility to have a choice of commercial insurance for selected entities is their right. They often have good experience with commercial insurance companies, which provide them with superior service - language amenities, immediate adjustments to insurance contracts and so on. Monopolic solutions would reduce the comfort of foreign workers and students and their willingness to travel at all. In such cases, they could easily choose another target country for their economic activity or study and would not at all strengthen the economy of the Czech Republic, there would continue to be a shortage of these workers. The government has made a clear legislative proposal to the House that did not change the concept of compulsory contractual insurance for foreigners. Thus, the government did not show an interest in converting it into legal insurance with a monopoly of a single insurer, since in Europe, these models had long since been retreated as dysfunctional and seriously restrictive competition in the insurance sector. But I didn't come before you to defend government bills here, just pointing out illogicalness and unsystemicity. Of course, I could give you further arguments confirming the harmfulness of this proposal, and I could criticise other amendments by other colleagues, but I considered it important to warn at least the most harmful. I will no longer delay, please, his refusal. Perhaps none of us wants this proposal to be an imaginary apple of contention for which it would not be possible to find support for the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Two factual points - Mr Plzák, Mrs Adámková will be prepared. And once again, I'm going to ask you for more peace in the room, the noise level is still high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u14	Good morning, colleagues, members of the government, I listened carefully to the previous speaker and I have to respond. I don't know who wrote it, what you said here, through Mr President, but there are some commercial insurance contracts with health care providers. I'm reproducing it well, I hope. I have to say, I'm a co-owner of a medical facility, and in my life, no commercial insurance company has ever turned to me. On the contrary, I have a little bad experience with them, and even a little bit with VZP insurance, and that's because they are the ones who are affected if they have an accident, they come and show either a card or some paper, and you don't know what the extent of health insurance is. My colleague won't listen to me. I'll tell the rest of you. So the problem is that you're gonna provide them with insurance as any other health insurance company would pay for it, for example, but then you won't get paid in full. This means that, for example, in the insurance policy, they have that insurance policy so that it doesn't pay for medical supplies or devices. That means you treat him, you give him an brace, but you give him the brace out of yours, because she's not really in the insurance business. So just so you know, whoever wrote you this didn't exactly tell you the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u15	Thank you. Another factual point by Mrs Adámková, Mr Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few points. I have listened with great interest to several previous speakers, especially Mr. previous speaker, colleague Žáček, and I must say that as a semester's work, gentlemen, it might take some light of the world, as a real reality is far away. I hope they didn't write you grammatical mistakes, because it really doesn't mix with reality at all. I don't know how many foreigners you've treated for free, but we've treated a lot. It certainly won't affect the number of students, that's absolute nonsense. The student here wants to study, and he doesn't want to break his legs. [[9.30 hours]] When it comes to care paid, please note that you all, all of our citizens, are paying for this unpaid care. It's from public health insurance. And at two o'clock at night, I can assure you, I don't have any, but there's no way of knowing what the insurance is. And that poor stranger often paid a lot of money for the insurance, but he doesn't have it. So that's one mistake. Secondly, the enforcement is almost zero, either from individuals or from insurance companies. So, of course, everyone will vote according to their consciousness and conscience. We needed to point out the problem. It concerns all our paramedics, but it also applies to all citizens, because the money that will then be spent - not on the salaries of doctors and paramedics - will not be paid, but on the use of devices, medications and the like - so of course we all pay from our health insurance. And I have been voted by the citizens of this country, and I will fight for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u17	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr. Mr. Svoboda. I'll just read the apologies before he comes. Mr Patrik Nacher apologizes to the limit of 13 and 19 hours for reasons of work. Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes today between 9 and 10 o'clock. Madam Secretary Klára Dostálová apologizes today because of the Senate's negotiations. Mr Ivan Jáč apologizes today for work reasons. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am certainly a person who has experience with foreign sick people great, because I am from a hospital that deals significantly with this, and a number of injuries, traumas and other diseases come to us at the hospital. We're here to deal with something that actually kind of exists, but we're dealing with it in a completely wrong way. In the whole world, when you're insured somewhere and you get your leg broken on skis in France, they drive you to the hospital, and they make you bail out, saying that if an insurance company pays for it, it'll all come back to you. The way we're dealing with it is we want to create a monopoly that dictates the price and that will be in all... As my colleague Žáček said, my proposal has evolved. At the beginning I was of a different opinion and now I am absolutely convinced that this is a wrong step, that this is a bad solution, that we are to address it so that the hospital has the authority to withdraw the advance in the event of the insurer's ignorance and then it all goes on normally. That's what I think is the right solution. And these students are extremely concerned. Of course, they don't want to break their legs here and they want to study here, but they break it every now and then, and they're from a world that's ready for health care costs, they're willing to accept it, and they also need to have the choice they have around the world.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u19	Thank you. Another factual point - Mr Kasal, Mr Birke will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, by your means, will address Mr. Žáček. I listened to him very carefully too, and I was really intrigued. But you said something that may be written ideally, but it doesn't work that way at all, it really doesn't work that way. And if you want to say something like that here, it should always be - because we're talking about laws - it should be exactly because even one letter decides. You said here it would be a monopoly of VZP. I would like you to correct this because it is a subsidiary of PVZP and it is a completely different entity from the General Health Insurance Company, which meets all of them, has all the standards from both the Czech National Bank and everything else. Then fix it first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u21	Thank you. The next is Mr Birke, who will be prepared with a factual remark by Mrs Věra Procházková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the sight of a non-medical worker, a person who has no experience treating foreigners or people with a stay in the Czech Republic, but to tell you the experience of a mayor who, when a businessman decides to bring foreign workers into your city - and I will talk about one nation who fundamentally refuses in any way - not only learn their children to go to school - it is the Mongol who come to the doctors that have learned one word, and that is ointment. Mast, that's what doctors call me. We don't know if they're insured, nobody understands them at all, they don't really know what they're supposed to prescribe, it's very complicated. That means I agree with my colleagues here. I think that my colleague Žáček, by your means, Mr President, is completely out of the question, and I confess that - I say I am not a doctor, but I look at it as mayor - I don't even know where these people live, I don't even know if they pay me for the waste, but that is, of course, going into another debate. But I say again - when a citizen of the Czech Republic asks me, who pays health insurance properly and says: What is the difference between me and the Mongol? And unfortunately, I have to tell him that none, because we all have some rights to receive treatment. So it has to do with the amendment, my colleague from the Pirates, so that everyone here can give birth, of course, to foreigners, in the territory of the Czech Republic. I think these people haven't had health insurance or health supervision all their lives, they're gonna give birth to God's sick baby here. I just want to say that I had to calculate how much my stay at the hospital cost after the covid. Well, that's hundreds of thousands. And I have to say, if you operate like this, let's say a sick foreign child, it costs millions. So just so we can imagine, and we're all paying for it. So I'm perfectly clear on how I'm going to vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u23	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, Mrs Černochová will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To my foreman, Bohouš Svoboda, through you. Well, I don't want you to sit in an ambulance one day and nurse a stranger in a ditch in the rain at midnight, who doesn't even talk to you properly, and second, he doesn't have any paper in his hand. We have to treat him, our laws say it, there's nothing we can do about it, and I can tell you that we in the Karlovy Vary Region have really big problems with these foreigners. We've gotten into a situation where we've been raising money from these people. But try to collect some money from this guy at midnight in the ditch! Well, you won't. And it all goes to who? Us. I understand that there may be one big problem -- of course I have a problem with that -- that would be five years. Yes, but it has to start somewhere. VZP always started with changes. It was always the first insurance company to carry all this stuff on its shoulders. I have to say, it always ended well in the end. So, yes, five years is a long time for me too, but it has to start somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u25	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, Mr Plzák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must say, I am quite fascinated by what the members of the government coalition are doing here. Ladies and gentlemen, let me get this straight. It's a government bill. The amendment, which has not been discussed either by the Health Committee or by the Security Committee, is a fundamental regulation of the law on the residence of foreigners, and now you, the members of the government coalition, the Members who have comments on this? There was no interdepartmental process, no interdepartmental procedure for the relevant ministries, the competent authorities of the state administration to comment on the proposal. And now you're gonna be training someone here who has logical questions because they don't want a monopoly of the VZP? Shame on you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u27	Mr Plzák, Mr Čižinský will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u28	I'm sorry, I don't want to train anyone. I really had factual comments about what my colleague Žáček said. And now one more point of fact about what the professor of Svoboda has said here. I respect his opinion very much, I consider him an expert. [[9.40 hours]] She basically said it here, Věra... Mr. Svoboda, if I may, for a moment... [[President: Through me.]] Through Mr President... may I? You know the situation in Pec well. And if someone brings me in with a hurt knee and so on and he's carrying a hundred for a beer, how am I supposed to talk to him about bail and break something out of him? Well, I'll do what you would do, I'll treat him, but I'll just treat him at my own expense, because maybe I'll never get paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u29	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, a point of fact. Mr. Svoboda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u30	It's a good thing this is where the debate is going, because it's... I appreciate it, because it's a matter of discussion over solving the problem. It is very good that - and belongs a great thanks to all the paramedics and the whole system - the person who is in the ditch at midnight to receive medical treatment. We're here to figure out how to set up the system to keep the public health system, the medical facilities from losing it. Unfortunately, the proposal, which is now, is actually redirecting all the funds outside of public health insurance to commercial insurance. It's true. [[Mr. Kasal from the bench, he's already there.]] Yes, it's already there, but only one. It's already there. In fact, if we were really looking for the best solution for a public health insurance system, we should open up public health insurance to these people, because these people are usually at an age where they draw less insurance than they pay, and it would be best for public budgets, for a public health insurance system and for all the health care facilities. The fact that we've managed to move the workers here, as I say, who are mostly young, healthy, into private health insurance is just wrong, so the proposal that's here is actually going in the opposite direction than it should go to make it convenient for public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u31	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Mr Bžoch apologizes today between 9.30 and 18.00 for work reasons. Mr Svoboda, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u32	Thank you. I'm always surprised how we can argue things that are really special. By the way, I did some work on that ambulance - unfortunately, just as an orderly, not as a doctor, but I know what it is. When we talk here, as my colleague Birke spoke, through you, about the Mongol, Mr Mayor, the Mongol are the only ones who always pay for everything. There's no problem. It's been 14 days or three Sundays since I operated on Mongolka, who decided not to go to Mongolia to pay for it with us. And that's always the way it is with them. That's a special group of people who really don't understand, they're like total strangers here, but the moment they're supposed to pay for something, they're gonna pay for it. And what bothers me most is that at the moment we are talking about how Mr Plzák talks about how he will take care of these people, how it is at his expense - we are all doing this - but we are talking about something at this point that is a certain human solidarity. But at this point, we're going to commercial insurance, we're going to commercial insurance, it's pure business, and I understand that, and I'd like to have that kind of business, too, but that principle doesn't change when it's done. Those who don't want insurance won't be sure because this state won't force them to. He should be working on making sure they're insured and they can't be with us without insurance. That's the basic solution to this thing, not that we're gonna give it to some monopolistic insurance company who's not gonna be able to secure it anyway, because he's not gonna have any leverage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u33	Thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] Another factual point - Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Běhounek will be prepared. And I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to point out to my colleagues that over 500,000 foreigners in the Czech Republic actually work here, who pay their taxes properly, and I think it is very unfortunate when we express our disrespect to them within Parliament. I think that these people, who, for example, make our industry work as well as it does, deserve some basic respect. That's one thing. And I really do not think that at a time when Czech citizens can choose a health insurance company that we should forbid foreigners to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u35	Thank you. Mr Běhounek - factual comment. Mr Kasal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ministers, Minister, just a gloss. You're all talking about commercial insurance. PVZP is the daughter of VZP and all the profits it has go back to VZP, that means public health insurance! [[raised voice]] And that's what we're left with! Whereas all other commercial insurance companies won't use it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u37	Thank you. Mr Kasal, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will turn, by your means, to Mr Čižinský. What's going on right now, we've touched some insurance at all, and there's not a lot of people who know how it goes. All foreigners who do not have a permanent and long-term residence must be outside the health insurance system. Well, that's set up by law. They can't choose, but it's tied to whether they have a long-term job to be linked to those systems. We can't unsystemically say that we're going to put the children of foreigners there if they're here for two months. How are you gonna do that? It's just that it's a much deeper matter than the fact that we're going to collect the money from a part of the foreigners. That's why all foreigners are 15 years out of the basic, basic health insurance system, and what you're going to talk about about newborns - it's fine, but a newborn, if we stick to the law again, it's 28 days, and the complicated cases take three, four months. And you won't be insured again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u39	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. President Stanjura has signed up with priority, and then Mr Čižinský will come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u40	Thank you for the floor. I can pick up where Mr. Kasal ended up. I do not question the problem, he described it as it is, and that is why it is dealt with by an amendment written on its knees by two Members who will solve the problem by creating a monopoly. It's not even funny, it's crying. We will not solve any of the things you have been talking about, Mr. Ambassador, through the President, by giving someone a monopoly. That's a ridiculous solution. I would like to call on the Minister of Health and the Minister of the Interior to respond to these complaints. The government didn't know what you said, Mr Member, through Mr President? [[raised voice]] Didn't the government know that for seven and a half years? How long have you had health ministers? You describe the system here, I'm not questioning it, your description! You acted like an opposition MP! We've known for a long time, the government hasn't done it, and my two dear colleagues on their knees have written a changeling to make a monopoly, and it's settled! None of this is resolved except that one privileged insurance undertaking, on whose board or supervisory board there are Members, happens to be trying to negotiate a competitive advantage against others in the law. That's just the way it is! The problem that many doctors are talking about here is not addressed at all, and you are pretending to lobby-press this amendment by people sitting in the institutions of the VZP to solve the problem! Then tell me how! [[raised voice]] How do those heartbreaking stories you're writing about -- somebody here wrote -- some drunk, Mr. Mayor Birke has a problem with the Mongol, it's been refuted -- how do you solve this by giving monopoly to one health insurance company, or her subsidiaries? Nothing! They only want everything from what they choose! Otherwise, the problem they're talking about, I'm not downplaying it, you're not solving it in any way! [[9.50 hours]] And I'm really gonna ask both ministers, experienced, third-time minister, he should know, he's no rookie or Home Secretary as a promoter: why didn't the government solve these problems in a government proposal? Why doesn't they deal with them intelligently, systemically, right? And not by the fact that the members of the Board of Directors of the VZP want to legalize an economic advantage for their subsidiary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u41	Thank you and I would like to ask Mr Čižinský, who is enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u42	Thank you. I would like to talk about Amendments E and D2. I just want to make it clear that these are children of long-term residents. These amendments were supported by Professor Václav Hořejšý. I'll read a few sentences here, I'll be very short. He writes: "I have been following this subject for several years. " I'm sure you'll all remember Professor Hořejší - in the coronavirus, he was very visible in the coronacris and his advice was very valuable. "I have been following this topic for several years, since I helped solve the very sad case of Eppův's husbands in 2014 as director of the Institute. These were Australian citizens who were employed at that time for three years at the Institute of Molecular Genetics of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. Their daughter became ill with serious malignancy and, despite the commercial insurance, a debt of CZK 3.3 million was incurred by the family for her treatment. I co-organized a collection at the cost of treatment." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support proposal E or D2 which addresses this issue. And now I would like to lobby for Amendment D1, which is my amendment, which releases for me a completely unnecessary tightening up on the partners of our citizens from third countries. Please try to think about the need to tighten up and complicate the lives of our people's partners just because European Union law allows for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u43	Thank you. Mr Wark has joined the debate, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Health insurance and health insurance for foreigners is certainly a problem, and I have to say that I was easily lost in the debate. So the Janulík amendment basically from my point of view, and I tried to study it really carefully, I consulted him with the lawyers of three faculty hospitals, so he de facto changes one thing from my point of view, and it is that it commercial - or two things, maybe three, two are essential, one less - that the foreigner will not be able to choose from more insurance companies, but he will have to choose from the commercial nurse of the General Health Insurance Corporation. And then he changes the fact that he defines the extent of the insurance as comprehensive insurance. I could quote from that, but I don't want to go down to the level of some colleagues here, one who reads the amendment laws here without being able to read. The way I understand it, the stranger will have to insure himself, I think it says here within 90 days at the latest, which means within 90 days of his stay, that's a change in one of those paragraphs. And the third change: the commercial part of the General Health Insurance Company. I take it he won't be able to choose the amount of insurance, the extent to which the insurance will be, but the insurance will have to be defined comprehensively. I think it's listed as point 8, 9, 8 to 10, in the range of 8 to 10. And so from my point of view, it's true that the insurance will be more expensive than it is now, when it can choose the extent to which it will be insured. I don't criticize it, I understand the objections that it may happen that the alien underestimates the risks associated with his stay, simply chooses insurance that doesn't cover all the risks, and then the medical facility gets into the difficult situation that you described here. But it's just not true that the insurance wouldn't be more expensive, it'll just be more expensive! So if, let's say, the Erasmus student is really here, he's gonna be here, I don't know, five months, so he's gonna have to insure himself and it's gonna be a comprehensive insurance policy, it's gonna be the same complex insurance as when someone comes in here working in traffic that's risky, and he's gonna be here for, say, two years. That's one thing. Second thing. From my point of view, it doesn't solve the crucial issue, and it's just that there's a sum of strangers. What I did again was that a few months ago, when the changelings appeared, and I began to find out what the situation looked like, I addressed the Brno University Hospital Legal Department to the Association of Lawyers of the Faculty Hospitals, and I asked if it was really a problem, because I know that it is really a problem in Brno faculty hospitals. Every year there are several foreigners. The last time she was a patient with quite severe oncological disease, when the remission or acute manifestation appeared so that the condition required through urgent admission of hospitalization. Then it was discovered that the cause was not an acute event, but an acute phase of oncological disease. That means she had to be treated. Our colleagues said very well: we couldn't release her. Her treatment costs over a million crowns, closes to two million. The lady is from outside the European Union, basically the system doesn't allow any other solution than either to add it to the loss of that particular faculty hospital, or to demand it by judicial means from that person. But that doesn't solve this changeling! Just that person, if she's not insured, she's not insured, and the system won't make her insure! The particular person came here through Poland, had a work permit in Poland, got here across the border, and it doesn't matter. It's still based on the fact that the stranger has to be insured. This means, my question to the Minister of Health, to the Minister of the Interior, was prepared by the law, possibly by the petitioner of the changer: How do you want to ensure by this law or changer that all foreigners in the Czech Republic have insurance? How do you want to do this and how do you want to resolve it with this law or amendments, so that if it doesn't happen so that this doesn't go as a loss to the health facility? Indifferently, whether state or private. I think that's the key problem. The key problem is that in some surrounding countries - I typically allow myself to name Ukraine - either public health insurance is not at all, or is extremely, extremely limited, and, of course, from the logic of the matter to the country where the insurance, where the care is at a high level, when care is also paid, which is not covered by insurance or free of charge in a number of countries, citizens are trying to get it in some way. I think many of my colleagues know that there is health tourism, that typically patients with Crohnův's disease from some countries come here because - and if Professor Špičák were here, I assume that, through Mr President, this would be confirmed - there is simply no biological treatment and other methods in these countries. They come here, they have an acute finding, they have an ileus, they have a sudden abdominal event, they're admitted, and when hospitalized, it turns out it's an acute phase of Crohnův's disease. But they can't be released anymore. They have to be treated. And I'm sorry, this law or the changeling doesn't solve this. Again, it's the medical facility that just has to pay for it, and it's going to cost him. So, yes, I support what many of you have said here across the political spectrum: this should be resolved! It's simply not possible for the state to get rid of responsibility and throw it at medical facilities, whether state or private, and they had to enforce it with virtually zero effect. Last year they didn't successfully recover a penny! Together in four faculty hospitals, it's several thousand lawsuits! These are not pieces of lawsuits, several thousand lawsuits, the amounts are not high, but in some cases the amounts are worth millions. The highest of these amounts was around six million last year. That means medical facilities can't do anything about it. And I'm sorry, this amendment, but even this law doesn't solve it. I'm not criticizing it right now, neither the law nor the amendment, but I'm just saying that it just doesn't solve strangers who aren't insured - first of all. Secondly, instead of being able to choose - I'm not saying whether it's right or wrong, I'm just defining it - instead of choosing which commercial insurance companies I'm going to be sure of, if I want to insure myself, I'm going to have to choose one. And thirdly, he's using the term, I think it's called complex comprehensive health care insurance, and that, from the logic of the matter, of course, will mean that the insurance will have to go up. If the commercial insurance company, the commercial part of the VZP, doesn't want to be lost and wants to make the profit that one of the previous speakers here spoke of, take to the VZP. [[10.00 hours]] The second thing I would like to mention is the amendments to the children of foreigners. The aliens are properly insured here, they have proper commercial insurance, and unfortunately, the baby is either born prematurely or has some kind of medical problem. And before it can be insured by default, there's a period in which the child doesn't have to be insured. That's cyclically happening. Again: a specific hospital, a specific medical case, which I have completely studied, where a court decision has already been made. The decision of the court in this case was that the hospital could not recover this money from the parents because it is a failure of the state that it does not allow the child to be insured, even if the parents wanted it. This means that I consider this amendment to be very solid and quality because it addresses the problem of health establishments where these children are to be born, that legislation is simply so unfortunately written that there is a certain interval where parents are insured, they want to insure a child who is not yet born, but technically cannot, and this amendment addresses this. Moreover, in that court decision - which I could read to you again if I wanted to talk for an hour, but I don't want to - it is clear there that the health insurance system in the Czech Republic can afford these costs because they are not so high. So whether we want to or not, those medical facilities would be in a situation where they can't collect the money from their parents. It's two problems that don't have anything to do with each other. The second problem with children is that I think it is very right, after all, a colleague here, through the President, Čižinský quoted our colleague, and there it was the situation of two researchers, you probably know it when a collection was made at the research institute for the family because they owed a medical facility some half a million. It was a very unpleasant case. They sent us to all the faculties and they sent us to CEITEC, to the ICRC, and they begged for help. The collection was quite extensive. Here's the thing. And for Club TOP 09, I must say that we will definitely support this. The second amendment is very complicated in my view because it does not solve the problem of foreigners who are simply not insured and not insured. And I repeat again, please either the Minister of the Interior or the Minister of Health to tell the health services - they will certainly be happy to be directly managed by organizations if they learn this from the Minister of Health - how, in this unique situation, when we have this law open, they intend to resolve that a foreigner will come to the hospital, he is not insured, the hospital must provide him with comprehensive care in an acute state, which can be very expensive and no one will pay for it. From my point of view: well, they're not insured, so whether it's covered by the Ministry of Finance's budget, or whether it's a fund at the Ministry of Health and it's covered by the fund, but I don't see why it should be covered by the solidarity health insurance that all the insured people pay for, and I don't understand why it should be paid by the hospital that only does the work that the state wants it to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here a point of fact from Mr. Pavel Žáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u46	Thanks again for the word. I would like to quote you from the opinion of the Ministry of Finance on this amended proposal by both honored colleagues. In this opinion of the Ministry of Finance, which is therefore totally negative, it is noted that this amendment proposes introducing a monopoly of VZP insurance company, a. s., on providing comprehensive health insurance to foreigners for a period of five years, and so on and so on. In our previous opinion, it was argued that the adoption of such an adjustment would be clearly illegal State aid under Art. 107 et seq. TFEU, et cetera, et cetera. There is also support from the position of the ÚOHS, which also disagrees. At the end of this opinion, quite overwhelming for this proposal, it would have occurred, is a pretext for the liquidation of the use of systems created from public health insurance by a private insurance company and for the unambiguous advantage of VZP, a. s. and restrictions, or even the exclusion of its competition in the area of private insurance. The conclusion of the Ministry of Finance, please conclude with the Ministry of Finance: that is why we continue to consider the proposal amended as unacceptable and recommend its rejection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u47	I wasn't even able to turn the time on, but you did it perfectly within the limits, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Leo Luzar - factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u48	Thank you for the floor. There's a cell phone left. Now I don't know if... [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] Oh, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u49	Well, of course, I'll let you go back to your limit again, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u50	Thank you. By your means, just to my colleague Válek, I would like to respond to his speech. We are talking about foreigners, but we are talking about foreigners outside the European Union. The European Union is out of line in this regard. These aliens don't just come here by saying, "I want to be in the Czech Republic, and they disappear here." The aliens come here to work mostly. And you're saying how they're gonna pay for insurance? I ask: those who have invited them here, who use them for slave labor for minimum wage, if not worse, should be those who are obliged to pay for them. And the only problem here in this obligation to pay is that you now have to offer them which insurance company they want. And they don't often know. They do not know the system of law in the Czech Republic. And that's the basic problem. If there's one insurance company, the employer who's using their slave labor will know very well, and he can't make excuses anymore, and he'll have to insure them. And by doing so, we will avoid these problems within the scope of insurance. We're constantly forgetting that we're talking about people who came to work here in the first place, they're second-class citizens, no discussion. They do not belong to the category of European citizens and have some responsibilities, but unfortunately, our employers often abuse them and use them, and these are the consequences. So let's face it, and let's allow these people, and we should mainly talk about these people, so that they also have adequate health insurance for working in this republic. That, in my opinion, is what this proposal is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u51	Thank you. Now, for the debate, Mr Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u52	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I think that repetition is the mother of wisdom, but the qualities of Mr. Pre-Speaker, Mr. Honored Fellow of the Válek, may never come to me. So, briefly. KSČM has always supported and sought to make health insurance more effective, to make the whole system more efficient, so it also proposed the merger of insurance companies, which was part of our conditions of tolerance of the government of Andrej Babiš. And his failure, or not even the preparation of the system, led to our termination of the treaty. However, Mr Janulík and Mrs Janulík's proposal In our opinion, the Adámková are leading in a very right direction. He is dealing with what Mr Luzar said, partly dealing with issues that are primarily intended to relieve medical devices of unnecessary costs, unnecessary debts that lie on them because they treat uninsured people from anywhere. So, in addition to supporting this law, we will support this amendment by Mr Janulík and Mrs Adámková very warmly for factual reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u53	I have one more factual remark from Mr Válek. My colleague left the phone on the bench. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u54	Thank you, Mr President. A sure thing is a sure thing. Alzheimer's is a terrible disease. I wouldn't dare discuss and debate in my life - what am I to say that I'm right? - with previous speakers whether to resolve the amendment or not to solve foreigners who reside in the territory of the Czech Republic require or need urgent care and are not insured. If he solves, he'll be fine. [[10.10 hours]] But I did a really good analysis, I really did a lot of this, and oddly enough, most people who don't have insurance didn't come to work in the Czech Republic, and it's not like the previous speakers described it, but it's really people who are coming here to get health care. It's completely programmatic. Their stay in the territory of the Czech Republic is in order of days, it is not a stay in order of months, and simply the situation is different. I believe that the solution would be to significantly strengthen the foreign police, which would have a much better chance of controlling, certainly it should be more careful work in those countries where they obtain residence permits, because they are people who are in a very, very difficult situation. I don't want to prolong it. The difficult situation is based on the fact that health care is extremely bad in a number of countries outside the European Union or there is no possibility of insurance. These countries are neighbouring the European Union, those people, if their health is bad, are willing to do quite a lot to go to health, and the Czech Republic offers top health care and offers general health insurance for top health care. That's why these people travel here. I don't think that's what the previous speakers said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u55	Thank you. Another factual point - Mrs Richterová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u56	The debate has already been held, but I do find it very important to stress what will be voted on here in this amendment. A serious colleague, dear colleagues, is a proposal that will introduce in the compulsory contractual health insurance of foreigners that only a subsidiary of VZP could offer this insurance. You look like it's gonna solve something. Like most of my colleagues from this side of the hall, I believe that this will not solve anything, our position for the pirát was lectured by František Kopřiva. But I would like to remind you which three ministries gave a negative opinion on this. Negative position: Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health and Ministry of the Interior. It does not feel right to push such a huge change against the negative position of these three ministries involved, and because it is a parliamentary proposal, they could not comment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u57	Thank you. Mr Bartošek, Mr Dvořák, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u58	Thank you for the floor. My point of fact will be very short. Minister of Health, you have been repeatedly asked to step on the microphone and give your opinion. To give an opinion on the amendment, which is from the workshop of Members, which did not go through the proper review procedure. And for that reason, it is important that you step forward and comment on this proposal. And that's what I'm asking you to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u59	Thank you. The Minister wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been called upon, although Mrs Richterová has already delivered the opinion of the Ministry of Health here, and I have told my colleagues very fair and open that I really cannot support this proposal, although I may understand the godly idea. But I simply cannot at this point support a proposal that, first of all, has not been actually discussed with the Ministry of Health, but basically says that only one health insurance company must do this product. We have seven health insurance companies here. Some health insurance companies even have a subsidiary, Komerční pojišťovna, for example ozp, but according to this proposal they will not be able to do it for five years, five years will only be done by VZP insurance company. I don't see any fundamental logic in this. All insurance companies manage public health insurance. If we were talking here about the argument that the money goes back to public health insurance, that would come from the other health insurance companies, because they can't do anything else about it, they all manage public health insurance. And in this regard, the monopolization for us is not appropriate and could indeed lead to a deterioration of the conditions for insured persons, because they will be dictated only by one entity and there will be no competition. So I've got a negative opinion here, I've told my colleagues, and I'm afraid I have to insist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u61	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Běhounek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u62	Thank you for the word, just a little something. There are seven insurance companies, only two have a commercial option, and this is the ZP and VZP. It is not true, Minister, that others can do this because health insurance companies, if they do not have a daughter, cannot offer this matter. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u63	Thank you and I ask if anyone else wishes to speak on this point at third reading in the debate? No one in the room... Mr Bartošek, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u64	Just a brief response to Mr Běhounek. They could, Mr. Ambassador, it's not as simple as you say. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u65	Once again, is anyone interested in speaking in the debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, the rapporteur wishes to speak. I will just quickly read Mr Pour's apology, who apologizes today from 10.30 to 12.30 for work reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, before I present the procedure, if you have looked at the Security Committee's resolution, you can see that it is these amendments that have been widely discussed that the Security Committee has not adopted an opinion. It was precisely because this issue is primarily medical or, say, belongs to the Health Committee and we have not been able to deal with it sufficiently. That is why we have not adopted any opinions, recommendations or recommendations, and the drafters of the amendments have asked, in the meantime, between the negotiations of the Committee on Security and today's negotiations, to get opinions from the ministries, health services, finance, the interior, and possibly the position of the Czech National Bank, which was referred to by the representative of the petitioner, Mr Janulík. So it's just to explain why there are no opinions from the Security Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u67	I thank you, and I ask you to stay at the table, introduce us to the various amendments, and give us an opinion on them before the vote. I'm gonna call my colleagues first, and I've logged out the application, so... [[Gong.]] [[Gong.]] So please, rapporteur, introduce us to the procedure. Calm down, please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u68	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce you to the voting procedure that we agreed on in the 54th meeting of the Security Committee: First, vote on legislative technical amendments pursuant to § 95 para. The President of the Council of the European Union shall act in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 4 (2) of the Rules of Procedure if they are loaded. Until now, I do not know that any of these have been applied, so this vote may not be. The following would be a vote: Amendments A, all by one vote. I will always say what these proposals relate to before the vote. Thirdly, the vote of Amendment B, once again by one vote, Amendments C, also by one vote. And then Amendment D1 would be followed by Amendment E, and if Amendment E is approved, Amendment D2 is no longer unvoteable, and if Amendment E is not approved, Amendment D2 needs to be voted on. That would be a follow-up vote. [[10.20 hours]] And then the motion for a vote on the law as a whole. I would also like to say that the Security Committee then also adopted an accompanying resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u69	I shall ask all Members of Parliament to remain calm. Please take your seats now. President Fiala is applying for the procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the debate was very lively, and I propose that we change the procedure and vote per partes, that is, after points, because I think it would be a shame to vote against all A points because of a few negative votes. So, in order for us all to be clear, I propose a vote after the points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u71	Can I be more specific? We're going to have to find out how many A's are.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u72	All we have to do is vote for points A, but if anyone wants everyone else, it's their business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u73	It's a counterproposal for the procedure proposed by the guarantee committee. So first, we will vote counter-proposal to maintain the procedure, with proposals A being voted individually. I don't know how many A's are in there right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u74	How many A's are there? 18 A's.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u75	This is the counter-proposal that we are voting on first. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 212, registered 170, for 76, against 1. The motion was denied. We will therefore now vote on the procedure, as proposed by the rapporteur. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 213. 178 Members are registered, for 121, against 6. We've approved the procedure. I will ask the rapporteur to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So the legislative technical adjustments have not been read, so we will not vote, and we can therefore go to the vote on the amendments under point A, and that is, as we have now set out in the procedure, by one vote. These are amendments to the Security Committee. It is essentially about taking over part of the House's press 1033, which is an amendment to the same law, and a substantial part of it has been taken into the House's press 1091. It is an adjustment to the status of stateless persons and other procedural provisions, taking over the arrangements of ETIAS and other requirements of EU law. The opinion of the Security Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u77	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who is "A" for the amendments? Who's against it? Voting order number 214, registered by 178 Members, for 134, against 16. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u78	The second vote is Amendments B. It is Mr Sklenák's amendments. It's part of the 1033 material again. It is the use of workers in the context of a disguised employment mediation to whom workers actually work. There will be a penalty for misdemeanor, for he too benefits from this activity. Recommending opinion of the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u79	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 215, registered 178, in favour of 155, against no one. Motion accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u80	There is an amendment under letter C of Mr Janulík. This is the thing that has just been discussed here, concerning the commercial health insurance of foreigners. The position, as I have already mentioned, has not been adopted by the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u81	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 216, 177 entered, for 98, against 59. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u82	Amendments under D1, Mr Čižinský. The aim of this amendment is to maintain the current definition of the category of family members of EU citizens in Section 15a of the Alien Residence Act and to remove from the amendment all tightening up for distant family members and unmarried couples. Opinion of the Committee: Not Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u83	The plaintiff's position? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 217, entered 178, for 28, against 79. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u84	We are with the amendments under letter A, a group of Members, a colleague of Třešňák, Kopřiva and apparently a colleague of Čižinský. It is an extension of the circle of foreigners falling within the public health insurance system by other categories, i.e. children with a long-term stay. The opinion of the Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u85	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[Mr Kubíček from the bench: We do not know what we are voting on.]] Voting order number 218, registered 178, for 75, against 18. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u86	I told my left-hand colleagues who are shouting now that we voted on the E.E. amendment as Emil. Emil's behind us, so now we're out. We can vote on Amendment D2, given that this amendment has not been adopted, and this is an adjustment to the legislative representation of the participation of foreigners in the public health insurance system. The opinion of the Committee has not been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u87	The plaintiff's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 219, registered by 178 Members, for 155, against 21. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u88	We can now vote on the bill as a whole. Opinion of the Committee: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u89	I will read the resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, according to House press 1091, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 220, registered 177, for 99 against 43. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Is there an accompanying resolution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u90	Yes. Mr President and fellow Members, fellow Members, the Security Committee has also adopted an accompanying resolution, which you will find as House Press 1091/4. I would like to read it to you: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Ministry of the Interior and the Foreign Police check the continuity of insurance, especially when applying for an extension of the residence of a foreigner in the territory of the Czech Republic. A foreigner must prove that he has been insured for the entire period of his stay in the Czech Republic under the Act on Public Health Insurance or the Act on the Residence of Foreigners in the Czech Republic." The Committee's position was a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u91	I suppose... As a rule, the position of the appellants is not requested in the accompanying resolution. So we all know what we're voting on. The entire resolution has been read to you. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the accompanying resolution? Who's against it? Voting 221, registered as 176 Members, for 165, against no one. The resolution was adopted. This has exhausted all the votes on this point, and I am ending the third reading of this press. I thank everyone - both the rapporteur and the appellant - and pass on the management of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-02-ps2017-104-05-001-336.u92	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue under the approved agenda item number
