ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, before we begin this 95th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would inform you that a meeting of 96 should be opened 10 minutes after it is concluded. I am now opening the 95th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will unsubscribe all of you and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 10 will be voted by Mrs Kalátová, with the replacement card number 24, if I have noted correctly, Mr Zlesák will vote. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 91 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 49 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 24 March of this year. I will now call my colleagues to the ballroom because we will be voting. [[Gong.]] I'm gonna ask you to calm down. We will determine two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mrs Kateřina Valachová as the verifier of this meeting. I hope everyone knows what we're going to vote on. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number one, 73 Members were finally signed in for 71. At the time of the vote, a sufficient number of Members have not yet been applied for, but if no one objects, we would continue to do so. I do not see any objection, so I note that we have designated Members of the Chamber of Deputies for the 95th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mrs Kateřina Valachová. I believe that we are acting in half, so I note that Members who are not present and who are not apologised in writing are deemed to be excused on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs. Among the members of the government who are not Members, the Minister apologizes - please calm, we are already discussing - Marie Benešová for work reasons, Minister Jana Maláčová for health reasons, Minister Lubomír Metnar for work reasons and Minister Tomáš Petříček from 9 to 10 hours for work reasons. We will now proceed to the 95th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So if no one's applying to the show, we'd just have to vote on the agenda. [[Gong.]] I believe I don't have to introduce him. I have called my colleagues once again, but it seems that all those who want to be present are present. Initiating vote number two on the agenda for this meeting. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number two, 84 Members and Members are registered, for 57, against 18. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. We'll proceed to the first item on the show. The first item on the show is
