ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-003-008.u1	8. Information of the mandate and immunity committee on the validity of the election of Members I will ask that the new chair of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Helena Válková, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-003-008.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will take advantage of it with one sentence that I thank you very much for the confidence expressed and I promise you here at the speaker's counter that I will always abide by the legislation and decent behaviour that Members and Members should represent us in the performance of our duties. Now let me introduce you to what you're all waiting for, because it's kind of an imaginary milestone between what was before. That means, we won the election, we got Members, we got the mandate, we activated it by making a promise, we took over most of us certificates, we signed honest statements that we weren't in any conflict, and now it's the last step. The mandate and immune committee has sat down and verified whether or not the terms of office are in order. I will now read to you the motion for a resolution of the mandate and immunity committee from our first establishment meeting on 10 November to verify the validity of the elections and to the certificate of the acquisition of the mandate of the Member: "Mandat and Immune Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening act of Mrs Helena Válková, after verifying the validity of the election of Members elected in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic held on 8 and 9 October 2021, according to the relevant provisions, namely 45 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Act No 9095 on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and after the debate I. Notes that all Members of the Chamber of Deputies have been validly elected and 196 of them have already received a certificate of appointment; II. Instructs Member Helena Válková to inform the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of this finding, under the authority of the proceedings at that time, of the appointment and immunity committee.' This is therefore the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee. I would just add one more sentence to that. We are at a time of pandemic disaster, a situation - put it yourself - and it is clear that not all of us have the opportunity to take over those certificates. In contrast to what we have experienced in the past, when all 200 Members have always arrived, here we have the 196. Those that we have not seen here in making a promise, nor have they yet been able to obtain a certificate of membership, we do very much wish of course, certainly not only the mandate and immune committee, to come as soon as possible and become our colleagues and colleagues with an active mandate. That is all, Mr President. I'm available for any questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-003-008.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Initiating debate. I'm asking if anyone is interested in getting to that point? With replacement card number 23, Mr. Síla votes. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I propose that we take note of the information of the mandate and immune committee on the validation of the election of Members. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the information of the mandate and immunity committee on the validity of the election of Members'. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered 194 Members, for 191, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, and I'm done discussing this point. Opening point number
