ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u1	2. Operational programmes and drawing money from European Union funds for the period 2021-2027 I ask that Mr František Kopřiva take the floor for the appellant, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief, but I am glad that now the Chamber of Deputies and all Members will finally have a chance to comment on the operational programmes and European funds for the next budgetary period of the multiannual financial framework without priority. This point is, of course, related to the National Recovery Plan, which accounts for about a fifth of all the funds that the Czech Republic can draw in the next seven years. And just to sum it up in general, say, from the role of a neutral rapporteur, as we all know, so the multiannual financial framework has already been approved at European Union level. The programs are ready and their conditions are up. And so it is now up to the Member States to create operational programmes for drawing, both the hard-allocated money from the so-called national envelope and the community programmes where the competition is, where the Member States compete, virtually. applicants from those central programmes. Unfortunately, in the Czech Republic the history of drawing on European funds is not entirely good. They often financed things that did not have a full public interest and did not meet the objectives, which, of course, reduced the public's view and some sort of picture of the European Union, but also of the state itself and the government. So I think it's in the interest of all of us, once again, to cultivate an environment for drawing subsidies, to be fair, transparent, to finance things that will be for citizens, for businesses, including medium and small, for self-government, to be unbureocratic and just to be fair. One of the biggest risks I think is the problematic monitoring system, namely the Tesco SW. It has a similar position as the OK System at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. This system is part of the so-called unified methodological environment and should unite key processes for all operational programmes while taking into account their differences and their particularities and specificities. However, the SAO report drew attention to a number of shortcomings. The system is then criticized by the applicants themselves. And I will not make up my words, but I quote here commentary by Martina Berdychová, director of the Association of Non-State Non-profit Organizations of the Czech Republic, and these are her words: The MS 2014+ system is user-friendly in all areas - request, changes, administration, monitoring, finance and so on. It doesn't allow simple procedures, data transfers. It forces users to rewrite data already well processed in the form of other agendas and tools. He's putting extreme pressure on the administration. He's been making a lot of mistakes, even major ones. It is a source of duplicate data such as dispatches, e-mails, attachments and so on. Despite this criticism of this system, the Ministry of Regional Development has not been able to compete with a whole new system and instead the competition for the new MS 2021+ system was based on the current one. This was also criticised in his opinion by the department of the main architect at the Ministry of the Interior, by the way. Once again, I will take the liberty of quoting the main architect's department. He thus responds to the applicant's repeated practice that during the programming period they do not develop enough activity in time to solve the tool for the next programming period and at the end of the current period there is not enough time to choose the architecturally correct solution. So the result of all of this is that the monitoring system for the new period will again supply the same company as the old software, so applicants will not have easier conditions and, as a result, it will lead to what we discussed here today, as in REACT-EU and other programs. It's just going to be a speed of clicking, internet connection and so on, and not the goals that those projects are supposed to meet. And we fear that the grant competition will not be much more fair and transparent, which is simply a problem for the reasons that I have put forward. I hereby thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will allow myself to read the resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u3	Thank you, too. I am launching a general debate, which was the first Mr Ondřej Benešík to join. I will read the apology of Vice-President Tomio Okamura, who apologizes today by the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u4	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I would follow up fluently on what my colleague František Kopřiva said, that the system is really inconspicuous in the long term in each planning period, and not that it is not a little friendly but often hostile to the recipients of the subsidies, it is unnecessarily burdensome and inconspicuous. This is precisely why I would like to call on the government, as I did in my previous speech, to be more conceptual and interconnected, so that the European Union's funds and financial instruments have their strategic objectives and that their drawdown is as difficult as possible, bureaucratically demanding for the end-user, end-users. I have communicated this with representatives of cities, municipalities, regions, I have experience as a regional politician, I have experience as a mayor, and I have often practically dealt with these problems. I will therefore propose one thing, namely that the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to establish a coordination platform for all available grant options and financial instruments so as not to duplicate and to cannibalise individual programmes and to improve the clarity of options for applicants. Briefly commenting. I am not talking about any website where there will be links to all possible other websites with information about the possibilities of subsidies. My point is that the system as such communicates with each other and that we exclude the possibility of white spots and cannibalization when setting it. Let me give you one example for many of the practices. If, for example, you have funds in two different operational programmes that have different conditions, other co-financing, so it is often a big problem. You can get e.g. grant - or in the past it was - on the water lines. Well, for the pumpers that are part of the water system, you have to ask for them in another operating program. In addition to being bureaucratically demanding for those communities in particular and for the cities that ask for it, there are sometimes unsolvable situations, because physically the water lines have to sit on those pumpers. And when you do it separately, you have to compete especially with the supplier. And sometimes it's absolutely impossible for it to work physically. So I would argue that the system would prevent this from being a simple matrix, which simply clearly says that drawing funds into a particular area will only be from one source, and that source will have clear rules, so that it does not happen that the system itself, as it is set, either completely brutally complicates the drawing of the subsidies, or actually makes it completely impossible. [[possible]] I will then read this resolution once more in a detailed debate. And I just wanted to draw your attention to the fact that I don't really mean any website with a list, but I mean that the system of financial instruments and subsidies should be aligned to avoid the cases I described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u5	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, neither electronically nor from the point of view. I am ending the general debate. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail, and I will give the rapporteur the floor here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I guess I had some slight premonition that on that first point we would not be able to load this new, updated resolution, because I have now checked it and it is actually conceived in general, and therefore it concerns all European funds and operational programmes. And so I will now like to read the three points, and my colleague Ondřej Benešík, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs, will take up his point here. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Calls on the Government, in the interests of transparency and greater efficiency of digitalisation investment, to favour solutions with an open source code as far as possible, as the principle of public money - public code strengthens public control, enhances security and protects against negative effects of dependence on suppliers; II. requests that the evaluation of aid applications be conducted in a transparent and predictable manner and that the State communicates with the applicant; III. Recommends that projects financed by the European Funds should focus on their sustainability, i.e. that investment and reforms have a long-term impact. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u7	Mr Ondřej Benešík will speak next in a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. So I'm very brief. This is the resolution that I have announced, which I have explained, virtually. its importance, in the following wording: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to establish a coordination platform for all available grant options and financial instruments so as to avoid duplication and cannibalisation of individual programmes and to improve clarity of options for applicants."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u9	Thank you. I will ask the rapporteur to lead us by voting whether we will vote on each resolution separately or together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u10	So I suggest we vote all four points together, but, of course, if there are objections, we can vote separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u11	Okay. So if there is no objection, we will vote on all four proposals together. No objection? [[No one's checking in.]] It's not. So I'll start the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 7, 91 Members signed in, for 44, there was no one against. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u12	Mr President, we have dealt with all the proposals made in the detailed debate. And all I have to say is that it is a shame, and I wish all the applicants success in the chaotic, often unfair system that our government is setting up to draw European funds. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u13	Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. We have discussed the scheduled programme of the 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I hereby conclude. I'm declaring a five-minute break for the 102st meeting. And I'm just telling you that this is going to be an extremely short meeting, maybe a record short meeting, but we need to make progress. I'm begging you for five minutes. [[Mr. Benešík is still reporting.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u14	I'm just very brief. It happens to me once a year, but I voted in favour of the resolution, and I'm late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote. Just for the stew.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-002-002.u15	Okay.
