ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u1	3. Members Jana Pastuchová's proposal, Lucie Šafránková, Kateřina Valachová, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended /German press 1237/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1237/1. I prosit that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor, and I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to approve, pursuant to Section 90, my bill, which I have drawn up with my colleagues - and thank them very much - with Mrs Šafránková, Valachová, Aulicka Jírovcová, Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Dražilová and Mrs Gajdůškovášková, so across the political spectrum. The point is that this House press is the same here under the House press 1143. Unfortunately, it was not the will of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit an amendment to the Social Services Act, and all Members of the Social Committee can confirm to me that we have repeatedly pointed out that if there is not a proposal to address the Social Services Act, because eight years are waiting for it, we will address it with a parliamentary initiative. The law has not been passed, and we have therefore taken up this parliamentary initiative, as I have named, with colleagues from the Social Committee, and we have proposed two House papers on the Social Services Act. One of these is this, which I present today in Section 90, because I must say that I am not very pleased that the House's press on social services has been built up to avoid voting. That is why I allowed the House press 1143, which is really exactly the same, to try to insert it at the end of the parliamentary term to be approved in the system or in accordance with Section 90. It is actually a compensation for the care allowance of persons according to the degree of dependence of III and IV depending on whether they use or do not use resident social services. The Senate proposal on the Senate initiative introduced actually that contribution in III. and IV. the degree has been increased only to persons who are not in a residence facility. With this amendment, I am balancing this handicap and suggesting that clients who use social services should have this contribution in III. and IV. level equal. I'm sorry to have to deal with this in this way, but we've really been waiting for the Social Services Act. This is only half of what we wanted to adjust with our colleagues on the Social Committee. I would mention, for example, that there is still the House press, as I say, 1143, which really corrects many other things in the Social Services Act. I would mention, for example, that there is a proposal for an increase in food money, where all providers write to us if we could do it for them. It's the 505 decree we asked the Minister to change it. She received a task from us in the House, from the Committee on Social Policy, from the Prime Minister, and unfortunately it did not. Therefore, I would like to ask you too much to increase this contribution at III. and IV. degrees, and thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs Richterová was originally to be rapporteur for this press, but she is excused, so there is a proposal for Mr Sklenák to become rapporteur. We need to vote at first reading. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. I hope everyone's got a voting device set up. The plaintiff doesn't have it, so I'm sure we'll wait. In some parliaments, it is customary to wait a few minutes. Change of rapporteur, we will vote. Based on the movement in the O.R., I'd conclude that everyone who wanted to arrive has arrived. I'm gonna ask again if everyone's logged in and their voting device works? Yes, it is. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the rapporteur for the first reading of this press becoming Mr Sklenák? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 18, 121 Members have been voted in favour of 103, against no one, so the proposal has been adopted. I ask the rapporteur, Sklenák, to take the floor and present us with a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Thank you, colleagues, for your trust. Basically, as presented, it is relatively simple printing, which therefore cancels the differentiation of the amounts of care allowance for persons in the degree of dependence of III and IV for clients in residential services. I, as rapporteur, would add that the proposal was sent to Members 10. 6th of this year and was discussed by the government. The Government's position was adopted on 14 June this year, and it states, in essence, that adopting this proposal would entail budgetary implications of approximately 3.4 billion. However, provided that, at the same time, there would be an adequate reduction in the amount of expenditure on social services subsidies in the relevant budget chapter corresponding to the budgetary effects of this contribution on care, the Government would consider the proposed solution to be possible and therefore adopt a neutral position in the final. So much for my intelligence report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u5	Well, thank you for the news report. Am I opening up a general debate to which - and do I see, Mr Aulická, as well? [[Mr Kaňkovský and Mrs Aulická are reporting on the floor]] Also, okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u6	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, esteemed member of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I thank my colleague Pastuchová for taking up the role and for actually being the leader of the team when we tried to turn over the House press 1144, which is precisely the House press on increasing the contribution to care in III. and IV. the degree in residence services, to this House press, so that we may be able, if the House's will, to approve this proposal during this parliamentary term. Just a little bit to the genesis of this press. We have been expecting, and I think we have rightly expected, that this parliamentary term will finally be the so much anticipated amendment to the Social Services Act. We've been calling for it, basically, all the political clubs in this House of Honor. Unfortunately, despite all the efforts of the Members who are associated with the Committee on Social Policy, and even after a number of negotiations, which we had not only with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also with the Ministry of Finance, the so much anticipated amendment to the Social Services Act did not occur during this parliamentary term. I'm sorry. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs seems to have different priorities, but I am glad that at least at this time we are trying - and it must be taken that we are putting out a fire because this amendment is not the big amendment - but that we are trying to ensure greater stability in the financing of residential services. And that's what needs to be emphasized here. And he also said that our esteemed colleague Sklenák, that it is not so that we would give Bianko CZK 3.4 billion to residential services, that at this time we would get them back into some advantage compared to field services and to clients who are in their home environment. Basically, the second step to this will be to really reduce the subsidy for social services for residential facilities, but for the residential facilities to finance it through the care allowance in III. and IV. The degree means greater stability. They do not have to wait for the government's annual political decision to set up subsidies for the next year. And that's the point of this proposal. I would also like to say to some critics who have called on social networks that a few Members here at the end of the parliamentary term want to put 3.4 billion in residential services and that we are chasing people into residential services: I think this is a very disgusting rhetoric, and this is certainly not the case. Our priority efforts should also be to promote care in the home environment as much as possible during the next period. Some steps have also taken in this parliamentary term, but to pour ourselves clean wines. If care for people in the home environment has improved over the past eight years, it is not just from what has happened here in the Chamber of Deputies, but from the regions, cities and many non-profit organizations. That's what you have to admit. It is not that care for people in the home environment has improved only by decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the Government. But the steps are still not sufficient. We really had a set of other measures to be taken. It is necessary to individualize the care allowance for people in the home environment. This is a step that has failed in this parliamentary term, and I firmly believe that the Chamber of Deputies will return to this in a new composition. Since we are becoming more elderly, we are growing a group of disabled people and we need families to have the best conditions to care for them in their home environment. On the other hand, let's not say that we don't have people here in residential services. There's more than 70,000 of them, and as the demographic curve develops, we just can't get these people out of these residence facilities. We must also have appropriate conditions for them, and they deserve the same support as people in their home environment. We just need to give the families the best chance they can to keep these people at home. But let's not play a game here about not having those people in the housing facility anymore and not having to get them or getting them the right conditions. So for the KDU-ČSL club, we support this novel, I believe it will pass here today, but let's take it that it is some kind of first aid to residential facilities and that the reform of social services can definitely not end here. There are a lot of steps ahead of us in this direction, and we should individualize this care and we should support as much as possible both the field services and the residential facilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u7	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Before arriving at the microphone, I will introduce the House to Mr Kobza's apology between 13.10 and 13.20 for business reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will probably be shorter, in any case I would like to speak here as a Member of the Ústí Region. And I stress this above all because the Ústí region belongs to the long term, I have to say, unfortunately long-term, among the regions, which unfortunately the system of financing social services is probably the most affected. Each year, the Ústí Region has about 400 million slumps. That means he doesn't get what he's asking for. And now we're in danger, maybe even other regions, that we're shutting down individual projects, and that year 2022 or 2021 is really gonna be very uncomfortable, and we're afraid of how we're actually going to finance it. What was promised on the accession of Minister Maláčová and referred to as one of the priorities of actually resolving the financing of social services will be in this parliamentary term, so I think we all know that it simply failed. And at least I am happy for what has been done by the parliamentary motion, and I would really like to thank everyone across the political spectrum who has put their weight to it, that we are doing at least this maybe for somebody a small thing. On the other hand, I think that it is for those social housing services and for the clients themselves, but it is a really big step for the funding itself. And we fundamentally correct the injustice that was actually adopted in the Chamber of Deputies because it was before the municipal elections. And, of course, we probably know how politicians behave, all of us, before some election, and how we need to show how we are for people. On the other hand, we know that only partial issues are approved, populist ones, and that the complex changes that have been promised to all of us, as we sit here, we have not been able to see them. The question is why. Maybe the reason or one of the reasons is that every year there are elections. But I would like the next Chamber of Deputies to turn away from this a little bit and start dealing with things and matters and areas really comprehensively, and one of the essential things, the change in the financing of social services, is really a need for our priority, which we, too, would like to deal with here and what we know what it should look like, and we also know that we have a lot of knowledge. Our region may have also sent a letter to the Social Policy Committee. He's asking for help, raising funds for next year. The question is, how will the elections go, how will the budget be prepared and actually how will it be approved? [[13.20 hours]] For four years, we communists managed to finance at least partly for some similar amount so that the regions really didn't have such big slumps. On the other hand, we know that the amounts were still insufficient, and if we let it lie and run as it is now, and for some years, I guarantee you that some social services in those regions are at risk, and I cannot imagine, although we are all trying to expand those social services, we know what capacity we have, that they are inadequate in certain areas, so I guarantee you that this will be a big problem for residents and final consumers. And who's to blame? It will be just us again, because we are unable to solve this long-term issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u9	Thank you. Mr Bauer now, then Mrs Černochová in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u10	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, since I was a co-president or one of the co-president of the Parliament's press 1143, from which this short bill is based, I consider it polite to express my opinion as well as the opinion of the Civic Democratic Party. Of course, we support this proposal, on the other hand, I would like to say that if you have read the government's programming statements recently before the elections, in addition to the pension reform, my previous speaker was an amendment to the Social Services Act, and he was talking about it, really one of the great priorities of this government, and for this reason I am sorry, and you can all well see that this is a parliamentary proposal. I would almost like to ask Madam President how it is that I am not signed there, but we support it, but it is a parliamentary proposal and it shows that the inability of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to submit some major amendments is being applied here through the amendments. I believe that this amendment is well written and that it will then be agreed. Perhaps even more so, not only because Minister Jana Maláčová has not submitted a comprehensive amendment to the Social Services Act, I am even more sorry - perhaps she is already showing up somewhere at press conferences for pensions, where we have put an axe of CZK 31 billion into the state budget - but I am sorry that she is not here for a little while or she did not come, because this is an important matter within her department. Finally, we support this proposal and will vote for it in the finals. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. If we all didn't care that the bill should be negotiated today to approve, then, of course, it is offered to require the presence of a secretary here who boasts that she has been in office for three years and what she has done. Yes, she's doing the policy on Twitter, not doing it here in the Chamber of Deputies, in the hall. Here, for the Minister, she had to work for the chair of the Social Committee Jana Pastuchová. A colleague named Bauer has already said that the Civil Democrats will support this proposal, just a little look back. Many of us are local politicians here, so we've actually been pointing out for years that there's actually a great deal of disproportion between the funds provided. In Prague 2 we have a social services centre, which is our contribution organization and which expands because we try to go with the trends, it expands its services. There is also hospice care, or palliative care. And really, in a civilized society, families should always be able to choose. They should be able to choose whether they want the home care, or sometimes the family is no longer able to do it with their own strength, so that should be the enlightened communities or regions that should offer this service. So today, I hope we will remove the disproportion, and so will they also follow up on what Dr. Kaňkovský said here, so the residential services will be taken into account by all of us. And I would like to thank all my colleagues who worked together on this - for us it was Honza Bauer - because these are exactly the vows that we made to our contribution organizations, our seniors, or in general people with some health disability who can't take care of themselves without the help of others. So thanks for the fact that at the end of this term, there's some kind of proposal that this consensus is on and that has worked itself out. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. And if no one else reports to the general debate, then I am ending the general debate. The appellant is interested in the final word, please, then we will have to vote on continuing the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. There is such a pleasant atmosphere for me today, when I see that a law is proposed, on which there is a consensus across the political spectrum. Indeed, to all colleagues from the Social Committee who are signed on this proposal, but also to colleagues who are not signed on, but who will give their vote, thank you very much. I just want to say that this is the smaller part that we've worked off. The larger part that we have given incredibly many hours, much time, is in the Houses of Press 1143, which has unfortunately been built so that it is not voted. I promise for all my colleagues that I will still try to load this House press at the Chamber of Deputies meeting in September. I don't know if he's gonna pass, he's not gonna make it. But believe that there are really many other things that will help social service providers, improve, reduce bureaucracy. And I can really say that this proposal, which unfortunately awaits so far, is signed by even more colleagues and colleagues than you can see here. So in advance, please, if we should once again vote on the inclusion of the second part of the improvement of the Social Services Act by the initiative of the Social Committee Members, I would ask for your vote on inclusion at the September meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. I have already called my colleagues to the hall, we will now decide according to § 90 paragraph 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1237 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 19, 123 Members and Members are registered, for 107, against no one. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. So I'm starting a detailed debate that I don't have any applications in at the moment, and if no one else is reporting, I'm ending it, too. Interest in the final words after a detailed debate, I believe, is therefore not and we can proceed to the vote on the proposals. In the absence of any legislative amendments, we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. [[13.30 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Jana Pastuchová, Lucie Šafránková, Kateřina Valachová, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovskýý and others to issue a law amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, according to the House's Press 1237." I believe that all those who want to be present in the vote are present. So I'm opening the vote on the bill as a whole. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 20, 123 Members of Parliament and Members are signed in for 111, against no one. I am therefore of the opinion that the bill has been approved and that is the end of the discussion. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Mr Černohorský wishes to speak with priority for the Pirate Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. Since we are close to 14 o'clock and there are only two laws that are quite important for the ANO movement and others, I would suggest that today we actually act on the third reading after 14 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u17	There's a motion for a meeting after 14 o'clock. Mrs Černochová reports with priority rights. Before I open it, Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u18	I'm sorry, but we were informed this morning that the House Gremium was scheduled to meet at 14:00, so there's no way we could have acted after 2:00. On behalf of ODS and TOP 09, I veto this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-003-003.u19	So, I understand. Vice-President Okamura still reporting. He's no longer interested, in which case I'll open point number 4, which is
