ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u1	18. Members of Aleš Juchelka, Roman Onderka, Olga Richterová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Eva Matyášová, Roman Sklenák, Petr Gazdík, Barbora Kořanová and others on the issue of Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions of their provision, as amended, and some other laws /German press 944/ - second reading Thank you for your colleague Aleš Juchelka at the rapporteur's desk. I note that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Social Policy Committee. The Committees resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 944/2 and 3. I ask that Hana Aulická Jírovcová take her place at the rapporteur's table, so that the chair of the Health Committee, Jana Pastuchová, will take her place. I'm gonna ask her to be at the news desk. I will open a general debate at second reading, where I have the first František Kopřiva registered, but, of course, the introductory word should be given by the plaintiffs' representatives Aleš Juchelka if he wants. Mr Member, if you wish to have the opening word at second reading - yes, it is so, so I will give you the opening word at second reading, but once the House has calmed down. [[11.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing another point, the opening word is to be given by the representatives of the petitioners, and I ask that it be so quiet that he can give his opening word in a dignified manner. Those discussing the last topic, please discuss in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, I hope that this point will be just as fast as the previous points, as the point on sterilization of women, because we are about to have an important discussion point, this is about Liberty Ostrava, I myself come from the Moravian-Silesian Region. This bill, which goes into second reading, is a bill on health services. The point is that we want to abolish the provisions relating to the facilities of so-called infant formulas, children's homes within three years. We are also introducing a comprehensive care centre in this law, which should be de facto a transformative element for all infant formulas. I repeat again, in no way will the highly specialised team, and today it took place at a two-hour seminar, the three-hour seminar I had on my ear, no one will be letting go, we will not throw the keys to the canal's infant asylums, but we are trying to transform the infant constitutions and make sure that children are not really there within three years in institutional care. So we're proposing a comprehensive care center, which is a social-health border, and we're also saying that all these people who work there can work in a day-to-day, weekly staff, they can set up a WITSEC, they can work on increasing the competences of, like underage parents, they can help drug addicts moms, or they can create a children's hospice. It is important for us, of course, because for several decades children's homes have been transformed into three years in the Czech Republic, so that there is also a legal framework, which we have prepared for over two years and on which is the compliance of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice, and especially the Gesture Ministry of Health. So thank you very much for your support and I look forward to the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Social Policy Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 944/2 and 3. I will now ask that the rapporteur of the Health Committee take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Guarantee Committee on Health from the 85th meeting on the proposal of Members of Aleš Juchelka and others to issue a law amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and conditions for their provision, as amended, House press 944: "After the opening word of the plaintiff's representative . Aleš Juchelka, intelligence report by . Hana Aulická Jírovcová and after the debate the Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal by Members of Aleš Juchelka" - I will not read all - and others, and other "to issue a law amending the law number -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u6	..." amending Law No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision, as amended, and some other laws, reject, II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, Commissioner Hana Aulickáý Jírovcová, to present the opinion of the Committee to the Assembly of the Chamber of Deputies." This is the resolution of the Committee on Health, and if, Mr President, I can also read the resolution...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u7	You can, yes, straight away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u8	... the Committee on Social Policy of 18 March on the proposal by Members of Aleš Juchelka and others, as amended, House press 944: "After the justification of the representative of the group of petitioners Aleš Juchelka, the report by Hana Aulická and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent to the proposal of Members of Aleš Juchelka and others to issue a law amending Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on Health Services, House Press 944, II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; That is all, I, Mr President, would like to take the floor as a Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u9	Yes, I'm sure it will be possible, thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Kopřiva is the first to be joined at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to begin by thanking all the petitioners and all those who participated in this submitted House of the Press. I am pleased that, through the President, you have put your mind to this and I consider this to be a step in the right direction. I would like to propose even a minor improvement under my amendment, which therefore does not directly concern the merit of the law, but I believe that this is not an adhesive because it concerns health services directly, not for Czech citizens and citizens, but specifically for foreigners. It's an artificial aborted pregnancy. I will not load the whole justification, you will find it in the amendment made in the system. I just want to sum up that the Czech Republic is actually very old, I would say, until the obssolent law of the 1980s, if I am not mistaken, about the abortion of pregnancy, which, in a nutshell, forbids foreigners, where they are somehow defined by foreigners and foreigners in this law. However, we have entered the European Union, where citizens of other Member States are not considered to be foreigners according to this definition, but this raises interpretation contradictions, which we have witnessed, when, in fact, thanks to relatively restrictive legislation in Poland regarding abortion, which has continued to deteriorate last year by the founding of the Polish Constitutional Court, and it is no secret that Polish women are travelling here to the Czech Republic for this very purpose. Now I don't want to stir up a discussion here about where the right to decide on your own body and counter-arguments is, however, reality is like that, from practice we know that limiting the right to abortion doesn't lead to a reduction in the number of abortions, it just moves into some grey illegal zone and threatens to punish even the paramedics. Just back to the Czech Republic, where we saw that the Ministry of Health stated in its opinion of 2016 that it is completely legal when a Polish woman arrives here for the purpose of abortion, however, and that is precisely why I decided to present this amendment with my colleague Třešňák, the opinion of the Ministry of Health has evolved over time and the Czech Medical Chamber has actually recommended doctors, clinics and hospitals not to do so, precisely because it could be assessed as a criminal offence for the person who is performing the procedure. And then I was communicating about this, just after the recent events in Poland, so I was communicating with the former Minister of Health, Mr Blatný, who, at first in the interpelation, had just repeated to me the opinion of the Ministry of Health that it could be assessed as a criminal offence. Then after some ping-pong, when we were exchanging opinions, he turned around. The Ministry of Health then recalled its earlier position in 2016 and stated that according to the lawyers of the Ministry of Health it is legal. However, of course, it is not the ministries who should absolutely be the one who interprets the laws, which, of course, can only be the courts, which is not the case here, which would determine how it is. [[11.10 hours]] That is why I decided to submit this amendment, which would update the Czech law so that it would comply with Union law and the situation. I think that in the 21st century it is quite natural for the right to access this health service to be equal in all countries of the European Union, or to allow foreigners to have the same approach as citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm not gonna read the long explanation now, or we can talk about it in the third reading. I will be happy if the law-voting officers read the amendment and give a positive opinion. I would also ask the new Minister of Health if he could comment on this. I assume that this should therefore have a positive expression, given that its predecessor concluded that the Czech law is out of date in this regard, or that the interpretation is simply not clear and that there may be various interpretations, and that the situation I propose in the amendment is a situation that is happening in reality. I think, with exceptions, we may agree. Although we can have a philosophical debate here on the ethics of abortion, in short, from the legal point of view of the approach of EU citizens to this health service in the Czech Republic, it should be balanced. So I think it's in accordance with the opinion of the Ministry of Health. I will be happy if the Ministry gives a positive opinion on this proposal. I won't hold it up now. I will look forward to a possible discussion at third reading and thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u11	Thank you. Mr Adam Vojtěch will also be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify my amendment very briefly, which is in the system under number 8090. In principle, it relates to the material of so-called infant formulas, i.e. homes for children under the age of three. In principle, the amendment does not call into question the material in question, which I, too, support in terms of transforming the so-called infant institutions into centres of comprehensive childcare. But let's say it's better in the way that the whole service is specified in terms of terminology so that it corresponds to the Health Services Act. It also responds to the opinion of the Government of the Czech Republic, which has just some aspects of a legislative technical nature or terminology character, blamed the original proposal, so in this respect my amendment is more consistent with the law on health services. It also does not include, among other things, an adjustment to the maximum capacity of bed care, because, under the health principle, the services are negotiated by health insurance companies, and the bed capacity is regulated by health insurance companies that conclude contracts with individual health service providers, which will also be the centres of comprehensive childcare. What is also very important is that my amendment defines clearly the respectable care, which means health care, which is absolutely essential throughout the complex of those services to be offered to clients, patients, within those centres of comprehensive child care, where, in fact, this lightening care will be an integral part of the long-term bed care provided within these centres and will be covered by public health insurance for a maximum period of 14 days in six months, so that the real parents, the persons close to the severely disabled children, have the opportunity to make use of this lightening service. I think that's very necessary. Recently I saw some media output, that these services are really missing, so it will be one of the key components of those centres of comprehensive child care. Otherwise, I believe that the proposal does not fundamentally alter the original amendment of Law 372. The only thing I would like to mention is that, contrary to the original proposal, the time for the transformation of infant formulas, homes for children under the age of three is extended to the centres of comprehensive childcare for four years. That means I'm giving the proposal a longer period of 48 months, i.e. four years, from the effectiveness of the law so that it's a long enough time for that transformation. Among other things, in this amendment, I mention the question of the justification in which, by decision of the European Committee on Social Policy, homes for children under three years have been found incompatible with the European Social Charter, which is certainly one of the arguments precisely for the need to transform into centres of comprehensive care for children, which will normally provide health care, through social care for children with a very severe disability, with a severe chronic illness, possibly with some mental disability. Since it is quite clear that there cannot be any abolition of any care, institutional care for these children, there simply has to be an option for those severely disabled children to have these services at their disposal. So it really isn't the abolition of infant formulas, but it's a transformation into centers of comprehensive care for children who will take care of severely disabled children. So much for the amendment and I will be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u13	Thank you. It is Mrs Richterová's turn to prepare Mr Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u14	Honest colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly on this proposal, which I support, which is perfectly in line with current trends and how many of these devices, called children's homes for children under three years of age, have already been transformed. This is entirely in line with the fact that the reality in most regions of the Czech Republic is such that they provide services to families of children with severe disabilities and such children. I propose an amendment to this bill with a number of other colleagues to whom I thank this, namely the age limit. Just very briefly. You've heard it many times. For the smallest children, it takes one arm, one caring person, so great that, unfortunately, despite all the effort and care, it is very difficult to get them a reasonable start in life with the traumas of institutional care. The proposal for a ban on placing children under three years of age - the border is three years, and it is a border that has been met by all the other countries of the European Union and even neighbouring Slovakia many, many years ago. This age limit is proposed to be introduced in the amendment from 1 January 2025, i.e. a transitional period of 4,5 years. Given that the needs of these institutions have been discussed for a very long time, 4.5 years on the whole country and the number of around 230, 240 children of this age, I believe that it is absolutely sufficient, in addition to the other advances in the field of foster care, which are in the press concerning the social legal protection of children. One more thing I'm going to stress, and then I'm going to sum it up very briefly. There are, of course, exceptions for sibling groups. We can't always arrange for more siblings to be placed in families at once, where the exception is definitely necessary, and the second exception is precisely for those children with severe disabilities. There are some cases where institutional care is also the only realistic option. [[11.20 hours]] So these are two important exceptions. So once there are two or more children in a sibling group, that would remain the option. In practice, just to have an idea, it is often so that even a two-year-old goes to a classic child's home with her sibling, she doesn't need the infant's home directly, but rather the group places itself where she stays. That's also the target, a stable environment for children, so they don't have to cross over. If I sum this up very briefly, the date of 1 January 2005, the limit of three years of age. All the surrounding countries did it, Slovakia did it long before us. We are Professor Matějček's country, please follow his research. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u15	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two minutes will suffice, because my previous speaker, Mrs Richterová, said it very important. As Human Rights Commissioner, I represent the Government Committee on Children's Rights. He supports this proposal. I'll remind you, Professor Matějček, '70s and '80s. However, we can also follow up on the research of Professor Radek Ptáček, a professor who deals with children's issues and which he says in his research, or he does not say so, those researches lead to these findings that he has formulated into five basic areas. They are representative research, made from 2010 to 2011. Children who grow up at this early age in institutional facilities, even if these conditions are hygienically, technologically, generally speaking medically, are experiencing disorders of somatic development, intellect and motor disorders, problems in speech skills, disorders in socio-emotional development and the development of mental disorders, whether we want or not. That is why the countries referred to here by Mrs Richterová have taken a different approach. I don't like the one thing about this proposal, but I don't think we can move this one anymore, 2025. It's a very long time, and the transformation could go much faster. I finally agreed to it, I added my signature, but the time is too long. In addition to me, he signed it for the YES movement, so you can see that this is not an isolated position, Mr Juchelka and Mrs Šlechtová, of course, other Members who are mentioned, from other political parties, or I think that this is also in this sense, let's say, apolitical or at least a proposal that follows the interest of the child, not the interest of the political party. [[Your time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u17	Thank you. The rapporteur came forward with priority rights. Then, with priority rights, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u18	Thank you very much for the floor. As my colleague Aleš Juchelka said, through you, this morning, a three-hour webinary was precisely on the subject of a ban on placing children under three years of institutional care. I've been doing this for seven years since I've been here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think we've done a lot of work on this in the past period. We've had a lot of visitors here, and I'm quite sorry that some Members, who could, didn't join this website today because there were 53 participants across providers, psychologists, foster parents. We were really talking about everything, and I don't even feel the professional public's support for the ban on placing children under three years of age goes everywhere. Who knows me knows I'm against this law, but not against having kids put in custody, because I'm the one who likes to be the first to lock up all the children's constitutions, but we need to know where we're gonna put them. And seven years since I've been here, we haven't been able to increase foster homes in power, not in transition, not in the long term. So I'm terribly worried that something that has a place in this republic is going to be canceled. I'll also be happy with the kids staying with the families, but I think that all of them, as I would say, things that work well here right now have their place, and they're canceling something really fast, but then it's really wrong to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u19	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take it from the end. That is why we also have an open law on social-law protection for children, in order to attract as many foster parents as possible by changing this law, for example, by valorizing the remuneration of a foster child and, of course, addressing other conditions of foster care work, and the MPSV is working very hard on this, I would say. And I hope that by the end of the term, we will meet with the fact that we will really increase the remuneration of foster parents, even though we know that foster parents do not do this primarily for reward. Why the 2025? Well, because I feel that our bill, which has a period of effectiveness of 2024, should simply be the primary carrier of these changes, and because it goes according to the two proposals, the ban should be de facto after. Yes, it is a long time, but I am very much asking that this amendment be made to Mrs Richterová only after, if the House decides what we will adopt this law on health services. In my opinion, these deadlines are sufficient precisely to allow us to have sufficient time for changes within the system, whether foster care, whether children's homes within three years, whether the transformation of individual institutions into different kinds of care, on the social-health border, to prepare it all in a legislative way, and to take it in a methodical way within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. And be careful, it's nothing short notice. We've been talking about this for 20 years. We've been talking about it for 20 years. [[Your time.]] And we are simply the last people in Europe to blame us for placing such young children in children's homes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u21	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, because I would also like to see Liberty point, which, in my opinion, is very important, and at the same time, the government is sitting at 12. In the long term, I support the abolition of infant formulas because children do not belong in institutions, and even less for social reasons. A brief remark. We are finishing the amendment to the Social Services Act and we are working here and proposing all the necessary steps to be prepared for this situation. I also think, as Mrs Válková, that 2025 is too long. For me, I would like us not to put children in institutions as soon as possible, and that is why we support the development of foster especially financially, because this is really a crucial thing. This means, I agree with this bill proposal, I wish that the time horizon would be even faster, and for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, I am clearly saying: we are taking all the systemic steps to gradually demolish constitutional care and that our foster care system is ready for this transition. Other countries have done it, the Czech Republic can do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u23	Thank you, and now, please, Mr Marek Benda. It is currently the last one entered into the general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been watching this press for quite a long time and carefully, I know all the disputes that are going on around it, I support the utmost effort to get children into families and I was ready to support it. I actually wanted to speak in response to Mr Kopřiva's speech, which, firstly, brings a clear label, but absolutely clear, which is not at all relevant, and I would even say almost counterpoint. We are talking here about how we are to do our utmost to ensure that children grow up in families, and Mr Kopřiva brings us material that tells us how to simplify abortion tourism, quite simply. It seems rude to me to put it in this Health Services Act in particular. I don't think it's a very good idea to give signals to Poland and just increase the production of abortion clinics here. At the same time, I say: I simply can never vote to simplify abortions in my life. The moment this proposal passes, my vote does not exist for the novel. [[11.30 hours]] Just so we're clear, and I've told many times to the Prime Ministers and Health Ministers. I respect the absolutely situation that is in the Czech Republic, which has been implemented in some way, I do not try to change it at all costs, but all attempts at further liberalisation must be without my vote, because I cannot vote in favour. So I will ask my esteemed fellow Members to consider the real support of this third reading label, which I find extremely burdensome, otherwise a godly bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u25	Thank you. Now a point of fact, Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm out of time, and I'm gonna follow up on Mr. Marek Benda's honored colleague. You see, Mr Kopřiva, through Mr President, it took almost three years for us to reach a consensus within this law, including among your party, partly between our ANO movement. In accordance with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, we have actually worked very hard, and here this sticker, which is really a complete counterpoint, goes into the conflict of philosophy of the whole change here in this law. So I'm asking you very much to simply withdraw it and try to enforce it in some other way than through here this hard compromise bill on health services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u27	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this press. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? This is not the case, so I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Kopřiva is the first to sign up. He cancels his application for a detailed debate, so he obviously answered his colleague's calls. So the next is Mr Adam Vojtěch for a detailed debate, Mrs Richterová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to sign up to my amendment, which is in the system under number 8090, and I would just like to confirm what has been said here by Mr Juchelka, that this amendment is also the result of the compromise and consensus of the Ministry of Health as the Gesture Ministry for Law 372, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice and others who have been involved in this amendment, and I consider it perhaps almost an historic moment when these two ministries, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have agreed on something in this way, and it must be thanked for that. So I am referring to this amendment and I refer to the justification for the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u29	Thank you. Mrs Richterová, for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u30	Thank you for the floor. It is a compromise for me, too, but if it passes, it will really be for the benefit of the children, because it will motivate during those 4.5 years to prepare all the changes that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has spoken about, for example, to really implement the system of care for the smallest children. [[3.5?]] As for the support for Mr Benda, perhaps I will take him at his word for it in order to really have hope. And I thank my colleague for a very constructive approach. I am, therefore, reading the amendment supported by a number of colleagues and colleagues, number 8328, concerning this very age limit. It's kind of making changes that have been going on here for 20 years, but at the same time it wasn't exactly the necessary motivation to actually finalize them, because I guess we all know that when things work in some way, it's really hard to get them to finish. As far as the transformation of these devices is concerned, they're also going to be in a number of places. So just 4.5 years until 1 January 2025 is a term that, yes, even for me, is too far away, but it's just safe to handle it without any problems. [[3.5?]] This is therefore a brief justification for Amendment 8328. Then there's a brief proposal of 8329 written by me. Please consider, colleagues, it is a limit to the number of caregivers of children from severe disabilities. I put it there to launch a debate on the quality of care for children with severe disabilities. Because there are no very clear standards there today, so at least for the reason that we should talk about this, I have put it there and I will be happy to consider this proposal as well. One last thing. I would like to appeal, the press on foster pay, the press on social law protection for children, must also have a very high priority, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, so that we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-005-018.u31	Thank you. I ask if anyone else wants to speak in detail at second reading? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Both the appellant and the rapporteur are not interested in the final words. There have been no proposals for shortening deadlines and so on, so I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Opening point
