ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 9 o'clock, I am opening the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I'm going to unsubscribe you first. I beg you all to return your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 45 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, December 7th of this year. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I would like my colleagues from the front to know that we are going to vote, and I propose that we designate Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura as the verifier of this meeting. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion? It's not like that. I have now begun the vote. I wonder who is in favour of these verifiers of this meeting? I ask, who's against it? In voting number 1, 134 Members and Members were enrolled, 128 were in favour, against 0. So I am of the opinion that we have designated Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura as the verifiers of the 5th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I also say that before the opening of this meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to take part in the negotiations: Mr Pavel Blažek - working grounds, Mr Jan Bureš - working reasons, Mrs Eva Decroix - also working reasons, Mr Josef Flek - working reasons until 10.30 pm, Jakub Janda - working reasons, Mr Jiří Kobza - health reasons, Mr Jiří Navrátil - working reasons, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 11 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Petra Quittová from 10 to 11.30 pm for working reasons, Mr Karel Sládeček for health reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl for health reasons, and Mr Marek Ženíšek - without giving reason. Now to the pardons of the members of the government: the Prime Minister apologizes in the resignation of Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Minister Marie Benešová for work reasons, Minister Jakub Kulhánek for work reasons, Minister Jana Maláčová for work reasons and also for work reasons of the ministers Miroslav Toman, Adam Vojtěch and Lubomír Zaorálek. I'm saying it's been all the apologies we've had so far. And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 5th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I am therefore of the opinion that only priority rights can be exercised at the moment, and priority rights have come, written applications for registration were received as the first on 14 December in 12 October, the written application by Mrs. Vice Prime Minister in the resignation of Alena Schillerová, the second written application by President Tomio Okamura, the third in the order of President Marian Jurečka, and with priority rights the ministers Karel Havlíček and Richard Brabec have already reported. So these are the order of priority rights. And I would now, because it's registered first, ask the Vice Prime Minister to come to the speaker's desk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Maybe I'll wait a minute... [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The subject is important, I'm sure everyone cares.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u3	I'll ask my colleagues for peace, or they'll leave the O.R. and transfer the discussion to the lobby, and it's really here as a hive. Please leave the O.R. who you want to discuss. Thank you. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister of Demission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u4	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chamber of Deputies is sometimes called a gold cage or ivory tower, or a place where people gather somewhat distracted from reality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u5	Yes, I'm registering. Really, please transfer the discussions to the foyer. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u6	Unfortunately, I have to say that if the House really refuses to deal with laws that have a single objective, addressing the burning problem of all domestic households, i.e. rocket-growing energy and gas prices, it will send a clear signal to the public that this is indeed the case. We all see emission allowances coming up. The previously unthinkable limit of 100 euros per share of the emission allowance is, so to speak, within reach. For example, on Mondays, they were sold for 84 euros, almost three times as much as at the beginning of the year. The result is nothing more than additional pressure to increase, unfortunately by far not only electricity, and therefore serious suffering especially the socially most vulnerable, such as singles or pensioners. The current meeting of Vice Prime Minister Havlíček and representatives of the energy business even revealed that electricity prices will rise by 30 to 70 per cent next year, and gas prices will rise by up to 70 per cent, as I said a moment ago. Thus, the effects on the common household will be dramatic. If both gas and electricity both drown, they can be directly economically liquidated. [[9.10 hours]] Even if the incoming government doesn't like it and puts our efforts under the bus, there is no doubt that the role of the state is to be active in the energy crisis. And so, from the very beginning, our ending government has stood up to her. That is why I have forgiven VAT on electricity and gas by the end of this year, thanks to which the average household will save several hundred crowns for November and December alone. And since VAT is a European-regulated tax, I immediately initiated negotiations with Brussels on the possibility of abolishing 21% of VAT for the whole of next year. A few days ago, I personally consulted the EU Commissioner for the Economy of Gentiloni. He has expressed an understanding of our situation and is ready for further discussion. This is a strong political message that says: Discuss on a political level, I perceive your difficult energy situation, and the temporaryness of this exception is essential. That's why we're proposing it for 2022. Together with Vice Prime Minister Karel Havlíček and Minister Richard Brabc, we have prepared a package of three laws that can save people thousands of crowns a year on energy, such as the proposed amendment to the VAT Act or the Act, which would significantly save over four million households on energy prices, because their invoice price would be reduced by a fee for the promotion of renewable resources. It's up to CZK 1,500. People who often write to me and with whom I am in contact could not believe at all that the five-calice proposal to discuss these laws in the Chamber of Deputies dropped the table. Incomprehensible. But we didn't give up, and when we couldn't discuss it at a proper meeting, we collected the signatures necessary for an emergency meeting. I still believe that if we can do something for people, politics will go away and the necessary laws that can help many households will succeed. The arguments that our measures are not working are proximate and false. They have no support in reality, and I can prove them with specific numbers. The Czech Statistical Office's latest reports on the month-on-year development of consumer prices speak of the fact that tax forgiveness on energy had an impact not only on lower November inflation growth but also on direct reductions in energy and gas prices. The price of electricity in November according to the Czech Statistical Office decreased by 16.2 % and natural gas by 11.5 %, which was also a positive reflection on the month-on-month decline in prices in the housing section. The average household thus saved hundreds of crowns. Perhaps not a dizzying sum for family budgets, on the other hand, the soothement of the situation, and especially before Christmas, and the considerable psychological effect. According to many economists of banking institutions, as you can see in open sources, VAT forgiveness was more powerful than expected, explaining the whole deviation of their initial higher inflation estimates than the resulting lower November reality. They say if someone's the only one who can do something, they have to do it. The one who can help millions of Czech households today from the weight of the energy crisis is 200 Members of this House. I believe that they will make decisions in particular in accordance with their parliamentary pledge, and not by political engagement, to block anything just because the final government has presented it. I'm afraid there will be no possibility of a reparate this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. The President of Okamura is now in writing with priority rights. After that, President Jurečka will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the government of Andrej Babiš at the last minute is trying to come up with proposals to mitigate some economic effects. Yesterday, the ANO movement and the emerging five-wheelers voted in favour of the so-called Green Agreement, in short, the Green Deal, which is bringing about the price increase that we are seeing today. Yesterday, we voted on this in the Chamber of Deputies, and the only SPD movement voted against this crazy European Union plan, which is causing - one of the reasons - people today to get more energy and expensive bills. So the YES movement as well as the emerging government five-wheelers on the one hand, as far as Brussels is concerned, so servila nods, basically in principle it is, and some oral proclamation that they want to change something, so of course it doesn't work and people really pay overpriced bills. So that's the result of this inaction. Last time yesterday - here I have it - the members of the ANO movement and the incoming five-wheelers voted here to claim the climate commitments contained in the Green Deal Agreement. So, in short, it is confirmed who or what is the culprit of increasing the price for citizens. The problem is that the current Prime Minister Andrej Babiš did not come up with any suggestions on how to prevent price increases, in time, in the last parliamentary term, when energy increases could still be prevented in some way. On the contrary, Andrej Babiš even nodded in Brussels last year to the European Union's crazy plan called Green Deal, which is one of the reasons for the current upheaval, and now citizens have to pay overpriced bills because of the slumber of his government. It is, of course, crazy that even the emerging government five-calice led by Prime Minister Petr Fiala in their upcoming government statement also writes that they support the Green Deal, the crazy plan. For the SPD movement, I say that the SPD movement, of course, promotes reasonable environmental protection. That's not what we're talking about, that's what we're promoting. However, environmental protection in the Czech Republic should take place not on the basis of deadlines from Brussels, but on the basis of the real needs of citizens of the Czech Republic and Czech companies, because the situation in every member country of the European Union is different. So don't grudgingly nod at what they say in Brussels, and it's said by people who often, or mostly, or basically all of them don't even know Czech or live here with us, often they haven't even been here in their lives, and they're telling us how to live in the Czech Republic, and they don't even know what our citizens are in trouble. So the result is the price increase. But let's think about what I was talking about yesterday. The Czech Republic is facing an economic and possibly energy crisis. And only to the solution. It is necessary to withdraw from an insane EU plan called the Green Deal. That's the solution. This is a system solution, withdraw from the Green Deal, the SPD says it clearly, and build its own energy security and self-sufficiency. Of course, the first step that the SPD has been talking about for a long time and alone is to get out of the European Union's emission allowance trading system, just to get out of it. The Czech Government should have the Czech citizens first and ensure our energy security and self-sufficiency. That's the right solution. So, in this sense, we should not only support Poland, but also proceed to the exit from the system. The Polák have always taken courage lately, and after the courage of the Polák, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in demission, preferably after the election, he'll be joining us. That's always the system. In the meantime, as I say, citizens pay expensive bills, food gets expensive, everything gets expensive, and it always comes out here with a cross after a funeral. We've been pointing that out. [[9.20 hours]] That's always the system. So in the meantime, as I'm saying, citizens pay expensive bills, food gets expensive, everything gets expensive, and it always comes in here with a cross after a funeral. We've been pointing that out. The reason why we are here, the Czech Republic, the economic crisis and apparently the energy crisis, is several. From economic cycles, through covid hysteria and subsequent unconstitutional measures, to the crazy ideas of the European Commission and those that rule in Brussels. I do not want to be a bad prophet, but if the economic crisis is around the world, then let us expect another wave of economic migrants, for which again those who supported the EU's migration policy in Brussels, those who support American aggression and those who support the economic vacuuming of the third world at the same time. Unfortunately, some individuals do not realize that under the export of so-called Western democracy, there is only one. A system in which he is the leader of business and business controlled by Western companies. And it is not only the pillaging of natural resources of raw materials, but also the export of its own surplus, which is launched by export of Western consumer style. All of this was shared and willingly shared by our representatives, both by governments serving and truthfully by those who are about to rule. Green Deal and other crazies from Brussels, or lockdowns or counter-constitutional measures or attacks on sovereign countries freely supported representatives of the ANO movement, the coalition Together or PirSTAN. Here I would also like to stop by by the fact that we have now read the comments of Mrs Hubáčková, the new Minister for the Environment from KDU-ČSL. And she's even supporting the energy upheaval. Which really caught me off guard. Come on, it's a surprise. I wasn't surprised by the servitude to Brussels' policy on the five-wheeler, but it made me a little sad when I think of our citizens, that instead of the ministers defending our citizens' wallets, they defend politics and regulations from Brussels. So it's obvious that with this five-calice really those people who are now increasing energy - which are basically all different forms - they're not expecting anything good at all. Within a very short time, they will see that the government of the YES movement in demise has not solved the auction and will not solve it today. That's for sure, I'm saying it in advance, and we're not even gonna vote on these proposals yet, and we're not gonna solve it with the five-calibers. Because they don't have the strength to stand up to the dictation of Brussels, like the Polák are trying to. Well, we should have that power, but they don't have the guts. We are a small country, but we do not have to act like vassals and subjects of Western lobbyists. They say a turkish is worse than a Turek. Only on anti-Russian sanctions we lost over a trillion crowns. While the Němec did not only trade and trade with the Rus, but built a joint Nord Stream pipeline with them. Since we would have to pay for transit in the case of the Němec too, I understand why they want to dictate Green Deal and shut down coal power plants. And best of all, the nuclear ones. Then we would really depend on Germany and Russia for life and pay them bloodyly for every kWh and cc of gas. Having its own nuclear or coal energy in Bohemia and Moravia is certainly a nightmare for the Němec when they have already invested so many billions in Nord Stream. I can laugh at the ideas of European commissioners forbid us Christmas. But the idea of banning us from self-sufficiency in energy isn't funny. They have already destroyed us, ladies and gentlemen, such as food self-sufficiency, in basic food. And believe me, it's not funny in a crisis, either. If people don't have electricity or heat, or if they don't even have electricity and heat, then in winter it means a real threat to the lives of our citizens. We should not primarily discuss things like emission allowances or VAT on energy, but a system solution, what to do next. Of course, I say behind the SPD that we always support and support and come up with proposals that bring down energy. That's what I'd like to make sure someone here doesn't twist my words. But we should talk about a system solution, what to do next. If those insane people in Brussels ban internal combustion engines, that means - and everything is going to do that, as we know - electricity consumption will rise by multiples that cannot be imagined today or calculated. Imagine a snowy and clogged D1 full of electric cars, including electric trucks. As the hour stands and drowns with electricity. This motorcade won't start after an hour. The debate on energy VAT shows in the most exhilarating form our slavery of spirit and body. Prime Minister Babiš and his opponents, instead of discussing the suitability or unsuitability of VAT, are overreacting to whether or not the European Commission allows us to cancel VAT. The Prime Minister said that Mr Babiš beats his opponents with the argument that a Commissioner, the Commissioner, said that she did not see the temporary abolition of VAT as a problem. Here the crisis of our political identity and morality is associated with the economic crisis. As Prime Minister of a sovereign country, he should be interested in the problems of our citizens, the citizens who elected him. Problems of the country that he is obliged to defend and represent. The opinion of a foreigner from Brussels who does not live here with us or speak Czech, whatever her function, is completely irrelevant in this regard. Again, we can take an example from how they started. Little steps, but the Polák, for example, began to advance. Or Maďar, too. The debate on the political crisis and the loss of national and national sovereignty is in order because the process continues. The new German coalition has already declared its objectives, which are not only the federalization of the European Union, but also the total submission of our countries to Brussels, namely Germany. This, for example, is also being said about the so-called transnational candidate for the Euro Parliament. This would, of course, mean a definitive loss of any more visible representation of Čech and Moravan people in Brussels. What Hitler could not do with tanks in the past, the Němec can now push through with money or political blackmail. Yes, this is about money and the economy. The sooner we get rid of our dependence on European subsidies, the better. Before someone starts "screaming" something commendation about subsidies, I'll explain. It will be better for our sovereignty and our economy. The losses that bring us submission to Western corporations will never replace our subsidies. I think we can fix cities for our own. And I am absolutely sure that Czech and Moravian farmers with their skills are competitive for the whole of Europe. The problem they have doesn't solve the subsidies, it does. The fact that German or French producers are cheaper at something is simply because they have historically received and receive much higher subsidies than our farmers. And the European market is completely distorted by subsidies, and that is on purpose. Because the goal was to control our markets and export to us and of course destroy Czech competition. That's a good one, after all. During the 1990s, Czech farmers and producers were actually massively liquidated by the aid of European directives and distorted subsidies, when our farmers received per unit times less than farmers in the old Member States. If a producer of ours found a hole in the market, like in Russia, then Brusel was here again with sanctions and the Czech company in Russia replaced German or other Western companies, which without shame circumvent sanctions. Indeed, the European Union's advantage can be spoken of today by either an uninformed person or a blind person. But that's not an innuendo to other parties' politicians here in the House. Because some criticism of Brussels, while cautious, whether it was in connection with Green Deal, migration or other directives, politicians of some other parties began to appear before the elections. I am glad, fellow Members, that finally some other politicians, not only from the SPD, see that Brussels is harming the Czech Republic and our citizens. Now it's time to face the problem and say what to do with it. We don't really agree with the others just about what to do with it. To reform the European Union - are others calling you - or to withdraw from it? [[9.30 hours]] The aim of Brussels is to be an obedient assembly and outlet of Western goods and our work to support the economic and social growth of the West. That is why, from my point of view, Špidlův's government of the ČSSD scandalously pushed an exception for Western corporations to carry out tax-free profits to them abroad, to tax havens. Besides, it's probably an interesting topic, now that I went to work, when I went to work, I just saw a cover story somewhere that the STAN movement is getting money from tax havens in Cyprus. And they should explain that, too, and I don't care who wrote it. I don't have anything to do with iDNES, I'm not the owner of iDNES, it's Mr. Babiš here, but I've noticed the article that those who play to be some new wind, so they get hundreds of thousands of millions of dollars of tax havens - from companies in Cyprus. Why Cyprus? Why are they hiding it? That should be explained by Mr. Rakušan here, or perhaps Prime Minister Fiala should explain it, because I see him here, and he should explain why his coalition partners - or invite them to explain it. Invite them to explain why they are getting money from Cyprus's tax havens on account - the STAN movement. And on purpose, it's the smaller amounts to make it look like it's inconspicuous, like it's hiding. But it can't hide. But it's been repeated with the STAN movement, I see. It's the STAN-Pirati coalition. It's happening again, because after a year of saying that they're ready to rule and that they're ready for personnel and programming, we don't even see the government's programming statement here, even though five-calice has been saying that it wants to rule for almost a year now, the announced programming statement is not yet what leaked through the media or the solution to the expensive, but it burns the citizens, it basically burns everyone, nor is there a solution to the covid situation. So once again, the two most important things that are burning all citizens at the moment are missing. But in spite of the fact that you said you were ready for staff, and Prime Minister Petr Fiala, Chairman of STAN, Austrian and others said so, last few weeks ago, you proposed money for the minister of some Mr. Věslav Michalik, whom we had not heard until then, but then we heard about him, who also sent STAN money from tax havens in Cyprus, and I suspect it was up to CZK 25 million. The co-founder of STAN, so everyone knew him well. Mr. Gazdík knew him, Mr. Rakušan knew him, and the candidate for the Minister of Industry normally sends money from tax havens, from Cyprus. Why doesn't he send them from the Czech Republic? From their Czech companies? And we'll never know what he was hiding again. And now I had to laugh at the fact that he'd resigned. Well, if the media hadn't brought it up, they wouldn't have given up, they wouldn't even admit it, that's pretty obvious. So it is not a new political culture, because a new political culture would be that such a candidate does not even nominate STAN when it has opaque business in tax havens in Cyprus. That would be political culture! So basically, there's no change here, no new wind. So it would be good, here I would like to call on Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who is looking at me, so he hears it well, nods, whether he would call on the STAN to explain transparently... You know, I'm not challenging you, Prime Minister, I'm not calling you to tell them not to be in the government with you because it's naive because you're going to be with them, of course, and you're okay with it, you know, but it would be good if the public at least - if you asked them to explain it, preferably today. There are a lot of MPs for STAN here, so they should explain why they are collecting money into their movement, repeatedly even, repeatedly, and even though that is why he had to resign - forced to resign, not by himself, forced to resign - a candidate for the Minister of Industry, so the transfer of money to the account of the STAN from tax havens continues. So now it should, according to this logic, probably withdraw the whole STAN movement when they have already admitted that the minister is resigning to them, that it is wrong - or a candidate for a minister - logically, so they admitted it, and now it turns out it's the whole party. But there's probably a double standard here, I guess, so we're used to it, it's like when Mr Bartoš here said - Pirates said, and they have it written in some of their manuals - that they can't accumulate functions, so it's unacceptable for them to be a minister and a MP at the same time. And even President Ivan Bartoš, as soon as he gets to the league, as soon as he gets to the corpus, to the government's corpuscle, he'll break it flagrantly, so he'll also be a minister and a MP. That's why the party is falling apart, the vice-chairman of the party has already resigned, because they are dissatisfied with breaking their promises there. I understand that Mr Bartoš is afraid to take his seat as MP because they're in the fifth wheel of the car in the government. And of course, because this government is not going to have an expensive solution, and we can already see that there are various opaque transactions in those parties, so logically it is the first one that fits the side to draw attention that the government doesn't need, which is pirát with four MPs, because the government has 108 Members, so 104 is enough. The pirates will be a scapegoat, and Mr. Bartoš knows it, but the stronger thing is that he wants to be on his résumé, that he will be a minister, because he would find himself completely out of office and out of work. That's why he accumulated functions if he wasn't a minister and stopped doing well to at least have MPs, so he broke everything against the voters of the pirát who promised them. It's not a new wind, on the contrary, it's par excellence troughs, because they accumulate functions against their rules. Not to mention the fact that an extra Vice-President of the House was created here for the pirát, and when I saw the calculations, it's an extra 20 million crowns of public budgets for the election period, only to have Vice-Presidents - Mrs Richterová of the pirát, she's Mrs Richterová. So it's exactly the opposite of what they said. It is even worse about the number of troughs than the current government, which they themselves criticized. But let's get back to the economics issue that we're dealing with here today, because Prime Minister Petr Fiala, instead of explaining why his coalition partner is collecting money from tax havens, has already left. Maybe I'd rather. Now, let's move on. The aim of Brussels is that we are primarily obedient to the montage and market of Western goods and our work to promote the economic social growth of the West. This, too, is why economic differences and differences in living standards have not really changed since joining the European Union in our country and in the most advanced Western countries, on the contrary, according to many economists, including Western ones, they have even increased. And here I do not, and I cannot blame German or French politicians for transforming Europe into their own benefit. It is their duty to work for the well-being of their citizens and not to work for the welfare of some Čech. Anyone who doesn't understand this is specifically naive or sold out, that's another thing. Czech politicians are obliged to do this, but our representatives in Brussels do not adhere to it quite consistently, the obligation to fight for our citizens, not for the interests of Brussels. There's a ridiculous excuse to hear about someone protesting there or on the other side, which is exactly what we're hearing here at the point that the ANO movement is proposing. They, Prime Minister Babiš, are always verbally saying something here, but in Brussels, its MEPs always vote differently, MEPs - we remember the migration when we say specifically: for example, Commissioner Věra Jourová openly supports the European Union's policy, the Green Deal, migration. After all, she is one of the most important representatives of the YES movement, and now we have a point - so agree in the YES movement, because your most important member, almost the most important after the Prime Minister, the Commissioner - perhaps even more in a position, because the servility towards Brussels, I would even say that, from your point of view, the Euro Commissioner will be even higher - so she is promoting the things against which you are now doing the meeting. [[9.40 hours]] And, as I say, let's see where and what parties in the European Parliament sit in what factions. And whether in the only one that promotes our national sovereignty, or in those who have denied Green Deal, the quotas for migrants, or, on the contrary, the ignorance of migration. This is exactly what we see in our faction of Identity and Democracy in the European Parliament, where our MEPs are and, on the other hand, we see other factions, such as the ALDE and the like, where the ANO movement is needed, which clearly promote exactly the EU's green destiny, which makes energy more expensive and so on. So if you're serious, you step out of that faction and go to another faction. Let Prime Minister Babiš say how she nodded to migration quotas or to his mad green plans as Commissioner Věra Jourová of the ANO movement. That would be good to say here. When I sum up the above, colleagues and colleagues, we really should start talking about the serious things that await us in the coming months from the economic and energy crisis to the threat of the total loss of Czech national and national sovereignty. Otherwise, Brusel' pressure on our definitive subjugation will only intensify. And again, I'm talking about the energy and the expensive stuff that we're talking about today. As in the case of the covid crisis, unfortunately, the elites are primarily concerned with power and money, more precisely about the power of money. Again, I stress that we are prepared to support any partial proposals against the increase in energy, but I am convinced, and we will see that at today's meeting that the ANO movement will not enforce anything here, because, unfortunately, it is now coming in populously and hypocritically with a cross after a funeral, because when they could deal with it, we were the only ones who pointed it out here, so they didn't deal with it in the government to please Brusel. And now a few days before the ministers are finished, he's coming up with some point that he's not really able to solve the price increase at all. And you'll see, because I don't think the new government five-wheeler is gonna vote for your proposals, which means nothing's gonna work out here anyway. We will be happy to support any proposals that will help people in a partial way, but it is the result and the culprit of the price increase, unfortunately I have to say this frankly, the government of Andrej Babiš with ČSSD with the support of KSČM, who are no longer in the House. If you could deal with it in full force, you had four years to deal with it, you just didn't. And that's right, and now citizens have expensive energy, and food is getting expensive. You didn't even deal with energy security and self-sufficiency, you didn't even deal with food security and self-sufficiency. You didn't even think about raising the apartments to stop him. And this is the result, but looking at the upcoming government statements and government five-caliber programs, it won't solve and it won't solve properly. And you'll see that we're gonna tell each other here in a year, that I'm gonna stand here again, and people are gonna keep gnawing their teeth off as everything gets more expensive. And the government's five-calice is going to be a) making excuses for the government of Andrej Babiš, and b) making excuses for the need for much more time, while they have been saying for a year that they are ready to rule and are unable to submit amendments to the state budget, while the government has been preparing the state budget since summer, so everyone knew about it, it's already been on the budget committee. So the amendments could have had the new government five-wheelers ready. And because of the new government five-calice, there will now be no increase in the salaries of firefighters, policemen, social services workers, and others, because the new government five-calice is simply not ready and has taken these necessary professions hostage. This is a really incredible situation, but as long as the number of ministers from fifteen to three spread here, they had time, i.e. sorry from fifteen to eighteen, by three, for that time they had - the new government five-wheelers. Most importantly, they have extended one Vice-President of the House for CZK 20 million from public budgets for the Pirates, who have only four MPs. Most importantly, they voted, the new government five-police, in the Senate, but that was voted by members of the ANO and the ČSSD movement against the freezing of politicians' salaries. That's our proposal that lies here now in the House. He won't be able to get to him by the end of the year, as I see it. So the new government five-wheelers secured themselves, but for citizens, for policemen, for firefighters, for workers in social services, for soldiers, but also for teachers and others there was no time left, because logically there was no time to prepare amendments to the state budget, so that we could discuss it this year, as it used to be when the new governments came in, that we had made it. I remember voting on the budget between Vánoce and New Year's Silvestr. Between Vánoce and New Year's Silvestr, we voted on the budget. This is Mr. Adamec calling for me - there was no crisis either. But you've been saying for a year that you're ready to rule. So did you guys sleep for a year or what? You haven't noticed for a year that our budget is deficit? I mean, you've been yelling all the time here, often blocking the House instead of preparing those amendments, according to your program, okay. You're set on a hundred and eight, you've got most of it, that's okay. It's just democracy. So you guys were going for a year. And now because of you, you're not lost, cops, firefighters, social services workers, and other necessary professions, soldiers, teachers, and others will not be added at least by the money à la inflation. So you're the culprit. Of course, they still want to impose, this government, compulsory vaccination, for example, on voluntary firefighters. And I already consider that to be a complete peak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u9	The President Jurečka will now prepare himself. But between now and the counter, I'm going to introduce the House to the apologies. He apologizes to Minister Klára Dostálová for the meeting at the Senate plenary session. From 9.30 to 10.30, Mr Marek Benda, President of the ODS, apologizes to Mrs Karla Maříková from 11.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. I'm still going to say what the order of entries is. They are therefore registered after President Jureček in the following order: Minister Karel Havlíček, Richard Brabec, then Vice-President Ivan Adamec and, finally, Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová. And now, please, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, allow me not only for myself and for the KDU-ČSL club, but also for the parties of the future coalition to respond to the proposal for this extraordinary meeting, because the listener who has heard a speech here, for example, by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, has been able to take the impression that the government has been working intensively here for the last three or four months on a really meaningful solution to how to help households who are getting into an extremely difficult situation today in terms of increasing energy, electricity and gas prices, above all. They made three proposals here, which are addressed as part of the invitation to this meeting today, and let's think about what it means in real life, what it's a solution. On the one hand, I would like to say that this meeting, too, is an example of what kind of government we have had so far and of what kind of government, with which solutions this country should have. This means not coming after almost four months of intense energy crisis, which this week and paradoxically as a symbol of how long the situation has not been resolved, the Energy Regulatory Authority has received, and presenting an area solution which, for the vast majority of those people, those households, those parents, those seniors, does not answer the question of how these people will be able to pay those price increases over the next few months and, above all, those final bills. To come up with a proposal for an amendment to the VAT Act, which is presented here as some major aid, in a situation where those households' invoices, as correctly noted here, will increase by thousands of crowns, sometimes by more than ten thousand crowns a month, and to say that the reduction in VAT is aid that will ensure these people's solution, so that is simply not the solution. Come up here with another amendment to the law that solves the issue of emissions... [[Minister Schiller tells Mr Jurečk.]] Thank you. ... the Act on Supported Energy Resources, once again it is a solution in hundreds of crowns or units of thousands of crowns, not a solution that would help those households in the situation in which they are. [[9.50 hours]] I would just like to point out that what has been presented here means, in the case of VAT, a state budget loss of approximately CZK 25 billion next year. CZK 25 billion, which will mean a state budget blackout, if I say so by some schedule, CZK 15.6 billion, CZK 2.4 billion, and CZK 6.48 billion in municipal budgets. No one here said that. This is what the Minister of Finance has tactfully silenced and did not say a message to the municipalities, towns and regions - again you will be missing more money. But the crucial thing is that the 25 billion crowns are not helping those people who really need help. It's just a broad distribution that may look like it sounds good in headlines, but for those few hundred thousand people who really are in this problem, and they're up to their ears, there really isn't. The Minister here said that she spoke to a representative of the European Commission who told her, as she said, a strong political promise. I would take it, Madam Secretary, if you had come, you would have taken it in black and white: I spoke with the Commissioner, I have written communication with him, and he clearly says that you can do this, that it is not contrary to European legislation. I have experienced such negotiations when these people say: Yes, we have an understanding for you - translated into a really official language: We understand you, but do within the legal rules in force. It's translated into the meaning dictionary. If you had it in black and white, it would probably be a different situation if you had the conclusions of the Board of Finance Ministers, where this is black and white, it would be a different situation. But it clearly states in its opinion that this is not possible, so it is legal and legislative amateurism, which you, too, have repeatedly said here in the past that you have studied those rights, and you have told many of your colleagues in this House that they do not, unlike you, so I would expect such a member of the government who is competent and able to read, so it simply does not bring it to the House's meeting. When we look at the question of the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, we are in a situation where the amendment of the Act on Supported Energy Resources has been made just at the end of the last parliamentary term, and if I am not mistaken, even this amendment, which has already dealt with the assistance and support there, especially for heat plants and households connected to central heat supply, does not have an end to the notification process at the European Commission today, and you are presenting others. I'm going back to that again: it's not the solution that people are expecting. I would expect you to come in here, get out and say, "We have a very detailed analysis of the situation, the Energy Operations Office, the market operator and the labour authorities have put together client databases, we know which groups are most at risk, we know which households they are, we know how the seniors are going to do it, we know in which regions the problem is the biggest and we have a targeted solution prepared to help those who really need it. Unfortunately, that didn't come up. I don't just want to be critical. I also want to appreciate some of the steps taken by the government, such as the memorandum and negotiations with suppliers and energy distributors, addressing at least the ceiling of advances, the agreement that was concluded by the end of the year, it was some step that was a positive signal. I want to appreciate that here. But if I were to say where we want to find solutions - and we are in a situation where we are not members of the government, it will change at the end of this week and we are ready to implement these steps very quickly and to do - so that we can communicate with suppliers and distributors so that in the winter period we do not disconnect households, so that we can be able to address, targeted after the really tested income situation of the household, of that person, say - here will be offered quick assistance. Today, we are in a situation where the government has approved an adjustment and an increase in the level of housing contributions this week, but unfortunately this increase is quite inadequate. Here we will look at the situation where the increase was 2.2 to 2.8 percent, we are moving between the increase somewhere between 100 and 482 crowns, but it is already clear that the increase will have to be significantly higher today. Clearly, it will also have to be remembered for households living in a sublet. It is clear that in some way these parametric changes should also take into account the rising household mortgage costs so that we can really tell these people - I take it ideally for myself by the end of January or during the month of January - you can count on such specific parameters. And you'll know, the household, that you'll be able to handle the increase with the financial bill, not just now, in a situation where the problem has somehow been postponed from the point of view of the cropping or not increasing advances. And what is very important is that the state, the government, can communicate directly to people simply, for whom aid is intended, simplify the application process and guarantee that, for example, it will be in the order of two or three weeks, when the money will be delivered to the account. We are in a situation today where there is a large number of households - and the data is known for a long time - that should be entitled to a housing allowance, but they do not ask. They often do not ask for it precisely because they say: The system is complicated, complex, and we do not know what to do with it. And here they have to come from the state to address these clients in a form that they are able to understand, and they are able to respond to the fact that they will then actually apply. We cannot allow those households, especially where the seniors are and have no one around them to help them manage these things, to fall into the situation of execution traps, the risks of losing their homes, and so on. And that is what people need to answer and say, The solution will be prepared this way. That's the short-term part we need to do now, in weeks' time, and I think it might have sounded. Even the proposal that the legislative board discussed this week in the government could have been here sometime during October. But then there are some things that my previous speaker was referring to here, for example, and that is a matter of medium and long-term solutions, and that is to use the Modernization Fund. This year's revenues from the emission allowances market in a large part or in the vast majority of the state have not been able to reinvest back to households, to companies to make investments in heating, to build up their own energy capacities, such as photovoltaics, heat pumps and other options. That needs to be fixed. These resources have to solve the cause for people, which means where I can save energy, where I can be a self-producer, to support this. That's a reasonable, logical thing any good farmer should be able to do. These are the medium- and long-term solutions, and that's what we're going to focus on. So let me say in conclusion: we really cannot support the proposal for this extraordinary meeting. We cannot support the draft legislative proposals put forward by the government here, which are not addressed to those who really need help. These are proposals that mean an order of expenditure from the state budget of more than CZK 25 billion, which we will dissolve in quasi-aid, and the state budget will lose them, but it will not bring aid to those people. We cannot support proposals that are contrary to legislation, even the proposals when the Minister of Justice himself, a member of this government, said: Such a proposal simply cannot be discussed in this way. These are the main reasons why we cannot support the programme at today's meeting and this extraordinary meeting that has been convened. [[10.00 hours]] But at the same time, I made it clear here behind the future coalition of government, where we can see the solutions that we will proceed in such a way that people's aid is to the maximum extent offered, addressed, targeted. To make the state know how to reach out to those people. Even those who today have a problem orienting themselves in the entire spider of the various types of information and requests on the web to get clear, targeted, addressable information on this matter, and so that we can deal with the things that have failed in terms of greater stability of the energy market, so that the state here is able to guarantee that this situation will never happen again in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u11	Thank you and Mr. Karel Havlíček, Minister of Demise, is now with priority right, Mr. Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although it is likely that our proposal to discuss laws will not get on the agenda of the day at all, I nevertheless thank you at least for this debate, because the situation is very serious. And I also have to respond to what President Jurečka said in terms of what was not done here or what could be done. After all, we all know that the long-term solution to what the situation is today is, of course, the support of the core in addition to the promotion of renewable resources. What more could be done for the core than we did? The core is ready, all finished starting with contracts with ČEZ, all models, financial, supply, investor law and so on. Everything gets the next government so they can do one thing, and that's run the tender. We know that the medium-term solution - because it will, of course, take one generation - the medium-term solution is transit through gas, still strengthening renewable resources, while appealing hard to the European Commission and changing the emission allowance trading system. This, too, is now pre-prepared. Core and gas as a transit source will likely be recognised as a sustainable resource in the coming days, thereby opening up the possibility of investing in them. As regards the fight for the emission allowance trading system, this has been said several times today. Of course, we're not the only ones who can control it. And then there are short-term measures. Yes, I agree that, in the meantime, there is still a need to put resources into innovation, to invent more and more options on how to help each other, but at the moment this does not work out next year! Next year, we need to resolve an increase in energy prices, which will be between 30 and 70 percent. Now we can talk about where it's going to be 30, where 50, where 70 percent, depends on whether it uses electricity only for lighting purposes or for heating purposes or also uses gas, but indeed 30 to 70 percent are very realistic estimates. Neither the opposition nor the coalition is to blame for this at this time is anyone who is from the Czech Republic. And frankly, the European Union's guilt is partial. It is a question of speculation in the gas markets, it is a question of increasing the prices of emission allowances, where I would not agree. It is a matter of weather: whether it is cold in northern countries or less use of wind power plants in Germany and so on. We all know this very well. As a result, it is purchased at spot prices at EUR 285 per megawatt hour, while at the beginning of the year it was 50. That means there was nothing we could do about it at the moment. What we can do is help households, businessmen and companies in the next year, perhaps even in the following year, because it is likely that even in 2023 it may not be good. And the help proposed by the future government coalition - I have well noted here - address aid sounds good, but that is exactly what Mr Jurečka said: After the test will be done. After it's tested. So we're in a situation that 90 percent of households, which are low-income and medium-income, are going to get into a serious, if not critical situation. I note that these are 5.4 million sampling points, so we can count the 90 percent from that. It is true that 5.4 million sampling points - let me be completely objective again - are all sampling points, for households it is 4.3, the rest are different other properties that they have. So we can subtract 90 percent from that - so we want to help them directly? Do we want to test them? Notabene, in a situation where we know that the direct assistance through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the employment offices and so on, whether it's through housing or so called extra immediate assistance, can't be applied in advance, but only within the accounting framework, which could be a few months after these people get into trouble, so today we're gonna force them to go to the employment offices to show their income, their expenses to show their savings? And we're gonna test every home that way? We're gonna test ourselves to death, and we're gonna do it for months! This is a measure, but it is a very short-term measure that can be applied within those who have gotten into trouble in the last instance's supplier regime. Which we're finally doing, because this isn't a discovery anymore. Emergency immediate assistance works, extras or housing support also works, but it is aid immediate, short-term, to a very narrow population. The problem will concern not only the vast majority of households today, but it will concern businessmen, it will, of course, concern companies and more or less all players who are taking energy away today. What are we dealing with with our approach and what would be solved by the approach proposed by the opposition? We say, "The system solution isn't that I'm gonna put my hat in my hand and go stand at the office of work and ask for extra immediate help." It's not a system solution. It's difficult, complicated, administratively complex. Not to mention that it may be a little psychologically difficult for someone to ask for this. The system solution is a tax reduction. Finally, the members of the opposition, even Mr Skopeček right before the elections, but I think I am not quite sure that even President Jurečka, at one point, proposed this solution as a simple system solution: cut taxes! And secondly, let's cut down on the only part of the so-called charges in the regulated part. And the only thing we can reduce or completely cancel is the charges for renewables. That's all we're gonna find. So either VAT or renewables, or everything together. And that can be combined, which I would agree with, with the extraordinary immediate help, or simply through housing, where it will be individually requested for those really households that are really very, very complex. The question is how many of them will eventually ask for it, how difficult it will be for them and when they will get it. That's the whole problem, while the reduction in VAT and the remission of the renewables charge aren't bothering anyone. It's simple, fast, no one has to go anywhere to any office, simply and simply pay 35 percent less for energy in January, February, March, April. Every month. No one's going to investigate why that is, but they're just going to get a smaller invoice, or even a smaller advance invoice. That's a system solution, that's a simple solution. And I must say that your colleagues, too, and now I'm heading into the ranks of the opposition, have suggested this. So why is it getting so complicated and changing these days? Why do they say our solution is nonsystemic when it's tax? And why do they say that solving complicated requests, testing every customer, and then paying back when there can't even be a backup is a system solution? I don't think that's system. I understand other things, and it's hard to say that it's gonna cost something. Yes, I agree. It is true that VAT solutions and renewables, and we can talk about how much it would cost on those renewables, maybe it will be 17, 20, 25 billion. Depends on how it would mix in the finals. But if we believe that we will solve the energy crisis by paying 1, 2, 3 billion crowns and we will be out of it - we will not! Those households can't stand it! Nor can some tradesmen stand it, it will just cost significantly more for the reasons I have said here. And I don't attribute it to anyone that he did it. That is simply the European reality with which all European countries are fighting today, and, frankly, much other than what we are offering has not been resolved. [[10.10 hours]] Yeah, there's an argument that I realize you're going to say, but it's still a super flat-out solution, and some who may have higher incomes, so it's too high a benefit for them, and it's all gonna go to waste. Yes, we're talking about the units of the percent of those who may not feel it in a fundamental way, I agree. But that's just what we could do with any tax cuts on the way we're going. When we lower the excise tax, which we did, and I think right, because it was higher everywhere, we should say, But what about those who drive expensive cars and those who don't really care that the oil is going to get cheaper? Well, let's not do it for that? That doesn't make any sense. After all, the tax solution is that it is always flat. On the contrary, I think it is the most just, the tax solution. But I agree that there's always those who don't get caught up in that network, too. But the opposite solution, start questioning those who are in bad shape - how do we evaluate it? We may set up a mechanism, but where is the line, who is poor and who isn't? That seems fair to us, doesn't it? I guarantee that the moment we set it up, exactly those who are just above that line and can't reach it will scream and bang the table, why aren't we there? And we're going to be in the exact same situation, except we're going to burden thousands and thousands of people who are going to judge it differently, and it's going to take a long time. So let's look at this as well as the logic that we need those clients or those households, companies, businessmen and so on, serve as fast as possible, that it can't just be a matter of six months, three quarters of a year, because the problem will start from January next year. We have the last few days to be able to help them. One thing is what has already been said here, and that is VAT. I'm not going back to that. Madam Vice Prime Minister, I think she's made that very clear. And I think that it was quite simple and clear as to how it helped in November and December. Even if you remember that even then there was resistance, even then it was said, it is quick, it is not conceptual, it will not solve it, so it was among other things one of the anti-inflationary instruments. The numbers are down here. As far as renewables are concerned, it is an elegant solution that we can only influence in terms of the so-called regulated component at the moment, and it is a solution where we just have to discuss how much of renewables we would be able to switch to the shoulders of the state. I know that most of you who are needed on the Economic Committee are already quite in detail, but not everyone knows the mathematics of renewable resources, so let me introduce it very quickly. We pay CZK 46 billion a year for renewable resources within the Czech Republic. It's not just photovoltaics, and there are about two thirds of photovoltaics, the rest are other sources for renewable energy. Who's counting on it? It consists of government, households and companies. Approximately CZK 27 billion per year goes to the government, and the remaining 19 billion are divided into two parts - around 12 billion goes to households and 7 billion plus minus goes to companies. This is the account that each of us gets, and it's not a small bill. Why is it such a high bill? Yes, let's answer that. Who was here in the House in 2009, 2010, I think he knows the story very well. The crushing part of this is behind the ill-considered work in 2009, when the Chamber of Deputies extended the possibility of building photovoltaics until the end of 2010, which significantly increased our costs in the finals. But that's in the past, there's nothing we can do about it today. We can talk about the culprit, but the situation is clear, we have to pay for it. The variant is that out of the 19 billion, more would go to the state. Let's talk again about how much. We are proposing at least 8 billion at the moment, which would mean that households will save plus minus 15 percent. If I add it to VAT and round the VAT to 20, we're at 35 percent. So we propose simple administrative measures to save each household 35 percent. But it's not just about households, it's about businessmen, of course. Those who are not payers would also save 35%. And we can keep having fun, and that's why we're actually putting it into the law, because it doesn't have to be put into life. If the next government says it wants to save money, and that it's going to sacrifice households, businessmen, all of them, and that it's going to be dealt with by some crazy emergency help, that it's going to happen at the employment office and then it's going to get some money, it's just not going to work out at this point. But the fact that it's going to be there doesn't prevent us from introducing it in the future. And there's nothing to wait for. So there's a chance that relatively quickly and elegantly resolve the fact that for a certain period of time households or firms would not pay renewables fees. It would help them in a fundamental way, both to households and, of course, to companies. The second thing would be how many renewables from companies would eventually be transferred to the state. Like I said, it's about 7 billion crowns. It can theoretically translate everything, part of it, but that's another thing. I don't want to complicate things right now. I won't talk much longer. I don't want to prolong it. Yes, let's innovate, solve the core. I think it's all right. And I'm even hoping we can agree on that. Let's use the gas as a transit source. That's okay, too. Let's calm down the coal. These are all medium-term instruments. But this will not help households and companies in January, February, March, May next year. The only thing that's gonna help them is an immediate precaution. And if what we're saying today is that we're not going to help them because a few percent of people would achieve support that they wouldn't even feel, then we're taking a vast part of the population and businesses hostage. And it's useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u13	Minister Richard Brabec will now prepare himself. I'm just gonna read an apology in the meantime. The Minister of Education, Robert Plaga, apologizes for working reasons for today's House meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, after two contributions from my colleagues - the Vice Prime Minister and Mr Vice Prime Minister - it remains to be asked where to take the money. And that is the third part, the third legislative amendment that we are proposing. This means, on the one hand, it is a relatively very simple parametric amendment to the Act on greenhouse gas emission allowance trading conditions. Because, according to the latest information and estimates, the period from 2021 to 2023 - and I also say these years, because we are proposing that part of the emission allowances that are now going into the so-called Modernisation Fund go into the state budget, I stress that part of these allowances, we are only proposing for a limited period, for 2022 and for 2023, when we believe that the greatest effects of this unprecedented energy crisis will pass. Between 2021 and 2023, we expect up to CZK 100 billion to be accumulated in the modernisation fund over the three years. By the end of 2030, it may be half a trillion - 500 billion crowns that should be available there, so a huge amount, which is the return side of how emission allowances prices are substantially rising. Now, I would only react briefly to what President Okamura said, because at least he's not right about what he said. Even if today we are beautifully - and I believe that what Poland has proposed is a message mainly in Poland, because they know that the immediate cessation of trading in emission allowances and the exit from the system is simply not realistic, because you need to match a lot of countries for that, and even if it did, even if the Czech Republic did, then the energy, the electricity, of course, is trading on stock exchanges. It's not like we're going to shut down our borders here imaginarily and say: ČEZ will only produce for the Czech Republic, it won't export anything anywhere. Of course, emission allowances and their effects, because this is the European system and other countries will remain there, would logically continue to be included in the price of electricity that would be purchased on those exchanges. There might be something down there, but... By the way, if you look at what happened to the emission allowance price, you will find that the last big leap in the price was given by the new German government saying in its programming statement that it would not allow the emission allowance price to fall below EUR 60. This in itself caused a relatively significant increase in the price. [[10.20 hours]] In other words, we are talking, of course, about the European market, about the European market, and we need to talk about realistic solutions and crisis calls for crisis solutions. And if, as I said here, we see that it has succeeded and succeeded in the following years or that the system will obtain a significant amount of money for the Czech Republic, then the source of the money is offered directly. I would like to stress that this does not mean - and I look at Mr Král, I look at Mr Adamec and others from the Economic Committee and from other committees - that this does not mean that the money will be insufficient for the applicant. There'll be plenty of money. And that is also the answer for President Jurečka, because, Mr President, and I believe that you know this, and after all, she will soon find out your party colleague or nominated for KDU-ČSL, my successor, the new Minister Hubáčková, that we really have nothing to be ashamed of in the Modernisation Fund, because we first received the second largest allocation from the Modernisation Fund from all the members of the Modernisation Fund within the countries that are participating it and only for the uninformed: of course we are getting to the Modernisation Fund and the rest of the other allowances from other countries, so that is a great advantage. And we've already signed dozens of specific projects, so the Modernization Fund has come to work successfully and we are one of the fastest countries in terms of its preparation. But it also needs to be said that we do not lay down the conditions, of course the conditions are based on the relevant European regulation and, of course, not only the European Commission but also the European Investment Bank is expressing itself. And that is another reason why the House, Parliament, the Czech Government has the opportunity to do this in this crisis situation completely unprecedented, that part of those allowances that will flow to the Modernization Fund in hundreds of billions in the coming years, so that part of them - I stress a part - for two years to use them to get to specific citizens, to specific companies, because the Modernization Fund and its focus in Europe - by the way, the Modernization Fund investment commission is meeting twice a year, very reflexibly, and we have, of course, already asked for a change of status, but no one has joined us, not even from Poland. So this is the best indication that this money needs to be used - and that is the option that this Parliament has, that is the option that you have - and to get it to the people. To get them so that we can actually finance what our colleagues here have proposed, such as the remission of the renewables fee. And once again, there will still be enough money for all applicants who in the coming periods - because we have already launched the first challenges from the Modernization Fund, to the heating industry, to renewable sources - will, of course, not only the municipalities, the cities, the companies will draw, they will draw thousands of applicants, but there will still be enough money. This is a clear assurance for all who were afraid that the money might not be if we pump something out of them, because we are suggesting that only a part, actually 50 percent of one of those parts, one of those, say, currents that flow to the Modernization Fund in 2022 and 2023, are heading directly to the state budget, where, unlike the terms of the Modernisation Fund, the government can make a much better decision on how to use the money, much more flexibly. So that's not why we're offering somewhere where we don't know how the money is going to show up in that budget, but we're specifically offering it, and I'm convinced that it's a quick solution, I'm convinced that it's going to happen in the finals anyway, and I know that - after all, you haven't been hiding it - the coalition is not going to approve the program today, which means it's not going to want to discuss these laws, but I think it's losing time for these proposals, even if they weren't approved at first reading, to serve as a very good basis for the debate. And here it's just every day, every week it's expensive. So frankly, I don't understand the refusal to talk about it. I understand you can have your own proposals, but at least these laws - and I stress again, even if they were not approved at first reading in the 1990s - could immediately serve and buy the time that is necessary to actually deal with a situation that in the energy sector in Europe is completely unprecedented and where a whole number of households, maybe even hundreds of thousands, can have a sadder Christmas, but especially next year, when they start walking backups and when they start to go to fundamentally increased energy prices, and here we offer the solution. Please don't reject him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Now Vice-President Ivan Adamec and I will just sum up the applications so far. The following will be Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová, Vice-President Radim Fiala and Minister Alena Schillerová, and so far the last one registered with priority rights is President Jakub Michálek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, the government in demise, ladies and gentlemen, you know, when I listened to the outputs of the various representatives of the government in demise, I felt that we are the criminals who are defending the good things here. It's just something's not right, and I don't have the time. The government's demise is over tomorrow, and the problem with the increase in the price of emission allowances and the increase in energy prices hasn't been here since yesterday, so please don't say we're taking someone hostage. I could paraphrase it. You took them by putting them as hostages now, not us. We're gonna have to deal with this, and we're gonna deal with it, but I want to talk about something else. When President Okamura here spoke of the terrible Green Deal and how terrible we acted yesterday when we agreed to agree with Green Deal, I would like to point out, Madam President, that he is wrong through you. We did it a long time ago, and yesterday it was just a wording that the European Union would understand. That's all it was yesterday. It's just to explain why we don't say things here that are a little different. And you're right, Green Deal is a big problem, but on the other hand, who's moving in this area, he must have known the problems would come. Yes, switching to carbon-free resources is not a cheap thing. We knew that. Not by chance countries like America, Asia, entire continents reject Green Deal because they don't want to put money on it and society doesn't push them into it. Here we have come to the point that the European Commission first received money for distribution, for the application of the so-called Green Deal, and actually the recovery of the economy after the covid is not the recovery of the economy after the covid, but it is the introduction of the so-called Green Deal. And we're not talking about electric cars, we're just talking about energy prices today. We had to know that this game, this action will not go unanswered. It's clear that if we have carbon resources, it's going to cost us something. Why didn't we deal with this here a month ago when the legislative process had a chance at some kind of life? Now, at this point, today -- you're finishing tomorrow, on Friday, the new government -- what can, how can it possibly come back here, I don't understand, I really don't. So let's not say things to each other. It's just the problem is right here on the table. I do not want to blame anyone, it is a problem that is everywhere in Europe, it is not just with us, but in Europe in some countries they are better prepared for it. That is what we need to say, and we are among the countries that unfortunately have a high share of industry per capita, and we just have carbon resources. We do, we will have to deal with this, but it's a huge impact for us, because the economy has some structure in the Czech Republic, and it can't be changed. That's what you need to say, and it doesn't go from day to day. I was completely in disbelief here listening to the fact that the Modernization Fund will be used as money for household and businessmen's surcharges, to raise the price of energy. Do you really think, Minister, that we won't need the money for the renewal? I think so. [[10.30 hours]] I have one example. I have a colleague of the Král who deals with the heat industry professionally, and the heat plants have one downside. Because they're producing heat, they're paying emission allowances, even those that've grown so much now, and they don't really have a place to take that money. And if we don't use the Modernization Fund to replace boilers or technology, the heat plants will be gone within two years. Let's face it. And people understand that now, because we also have resources, small resources that are not affected by this low-emission policy, and it happens that in the housing estates, people are disconnected from the cesetas, and they make small boiler rooms that pollute the environment many times more than the heat plant. So please don't say we have enough money. I know it's a problem, but let's not say it. As regards the area measure. I understand that it's quick, that it can be done quickly. Now I'm not gonna criticize that it's a $25 billion drop in the budget again, and I have to say, when I look at how much it's gonna cost the community, the county, so it's just the beginning, because municipalities and regions are buying electricity at auctions and those who don't have fixed, they don't have bought and bought this year are crying, so the cost of Green Deal is going to increase for them. As far as emission allowances are concerned: when the emission allowance starts acting as a security, everyone has to assume that the price will go up, that it is speculated that it is being sold and that it will simply start to determine the market. I know that there is some restriction on some rapid increase, and, of course, when the German government says that the price must not fall below 60 euros per tonne, so clearly it will cheat on the market. That's just the way the capital market always is. This information can disrupt the capital market, and that's what speculators, businessmen, that kind of information use. So let's say the reality is maybe rougher than we thought when we were raising our hand to add to the pact. On the other hand, I have to say that some states, the strong ones, don't act much like us. They knew this was coming, and they're taking advantage of the energy price pressure to speed up Green Deal, and because the European Commission has the so-called recovery money after the covid, and there's a huge interest in the business sector, so there's a assumption that they're really gonna make it to the end, and then maybe we'll all be surprised. If I take the percentage share of CO2 emissions into Europe against the outside world, then we really are like Europe as polluters, I say to the people, zero zero. I've even read somewhere when we're talking about electric cars, that five oceanic ships produce more fumes than all the cars in Europe. That's information that may not be completely real, but it's just there. But I'll get back to the problems. I have read the bills and there is a problem in all those bills - it is not compatible with European law. There aren't completed processes that are needed to do these things. I don't know how they'll look at us in Europe if we do this. President Okamura here spoke of Poland as wanting to reduce trade in emission allowances. Let me put it this way: Polák are handy. It is a big country, they have a different position in the European Union and the Polák will trade it for something because they know very well that they will not do it, but it is simply their tactics, their strategies to achieve theirs within the European Union. Maybe we should learn from them, but on the other hand, we are a relatively small nation against the Polák. We said we wouldn't support the agenda for this meeting. I don't think we can. In fact, given the time we are discussing this, given the form in which the bills are designed, you cannot ask us to do that. I understand the Minister of the Environment that if there was a real chance to put it into normal reading, that we might have come to some of the results, but at a time when the government is changing, and I think that the current government - today I see it as such a certain alibi that it has not been done before on their part. I'm sorry, but that's the way I feel, and it's not a dirty thing. We'd probably do it the same way. I think we're spending too much time here today in the sense that we all know we just can't approve the program. But to be positive: I think we're going to have to take action. It's gonna hurt, but we need to explain to people that the transition to low-emission policy, to low-emission resources is just gonna cost something and it's not gonna be easy. But if you ask citizens if they want to have a clean environment, everyone will say yes. Everyone wants to have a beautiful nature, they all want to have factories that don't smell, they don't smoke, but on the other hand, they have to be told, nothing is free. And if anyone thinks that what just came into practice from the point of view of the Green Deal app, that it's final, I'm going to be very negative at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just the beginning! So we're not gonna support the program tonight. Thank you for your attention, and if we don't see each other again, have a nice holiday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. I will also state that with the replacement card number 26, Mrs Helena Langšádlová will vote. And now Vice-President Jana Vildumetzová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, allow me to speak to you as Vice-President of the House, but also as former mayor, former Governor, and, above all, a Member of the structurally disabled Karlovy Vary Region. I would like to comment on today's special meeting and on the importance of the programme presented. I am really very sorry that the organizational committee, the current majority in the Chamber of Deputies, has eliminated such important points. These points and these laws at first reading could already have been approved yesterday at the fourth meeting if this had not happened on the Organising Committee. All of us, all 200 Members who have been elected citizens of the Czech Republic, have all received the mandate of a Member and promised that we would defend the interests of citizens. The issue of increasing energy prices, which is resonating here, and if I go to any debate with MEPs right now, of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, everyone is saying that they want to solve it, that the problem is here, and we all know that the increase in energy prices is not only affecting the Czech Republic, but also other states, and I dare say that it is a global, huge problem, and I must say that this government has immediately addressed this problem and has come up with a solution. The problem affects all citizens of the Czech Republic, as has been said here from Mr Jurečka's mouth - seniors, children, mothers, fathers, just all households and our duty is to solve this problem and help those people. The Minister for the months of November and December pushed for a zero rate of VAT on all energy, and the proposal that he is making today was a strong political promise - from Mr Jurečka's mouth, through Madam President. I think that if the Minister of Finance and the Vice Prime Minister is going, he is dealing with the relevant Commissioner and he is going to get a political promise, it is now up to the new government to negotiate the political promise that she has managed to negotiate so that Mr Stanjura's new Finance Minister can make it to a successful end. That's what this is all about! If we were to pass a zero-percent VAT bill today, it's all about just making it happen, but it's important that all citizens have a zero-percent rate from January 1st. [[A round of applause for members of the YES 2011.]] [[10.40 hours]] I feel a little bit - and I understand the election was October 8th and 9th. Today is the fifth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Appointing a government can't be more important than helping people. I am talking about this because it has already been said here, because the club presidents have announced, the Presidents of the SPOLU and Pirstan, that there is no way that they will support the proposal for this meeting. And I would really like to ask all of you to support the agenda for today's meeting, because I think everyone knows - and I am very surprised by Mr Ivan Adamec's speech, through Madam President, where he will say that these laws have some flaws - they are government proposals, they have passed the standard legislative process. Are you saying that the Government's legislative council did not support these laws? Each law must be discussed by the legislative council of the Government and then this law goes to the House plenary. And I would like to point out to all of you that the next meeting is scheduled for January 12th. And so if a new government comes up with some new bill proposal, because if there's talk of a new solution, and there's talk of a Modernization Fund, it's kind of resonating here. Mr. Ivan Adamec is talking about heat plants here, so the Modernization Fund is already working today. Those programs are already open... [[Vice-President Richter: Please, through the President.]] ... through Madam President. I'm sure the Minister of the Environment will come back to this to tell you exactly what the allocated amounts are. There is an open programme for heating plants, there is an open programme for renewable energy sources, for reducing CO2. All of these programs are already open, but it was just assumed that under the Modernization Fund, the income would be 200 billion over the period, and now we see that it will be very high, so it could be up to 500 billion. So if the new government comes up with another solution proposal, and it's most likely to get the funds out of the Modernization Fund, then it's going to have to come up with the bill again. [[Want]] This bill will have to be approved by the government, it will have to go to the Government's Legislative Council, it will have to go to the House, to the Senate, and it will probably not be possible until 1 January. That is why it is so very important to support this today and not to play the opposition coalition at the moment. And if you come up with a better solution, you can cancel this after two months, or you come up with this solution and you say, well, no VAT, we have a better solution, but let's just remember that the worst energy price period that experts say is waiting for us is just the beginning of next year. And I'm really very surprised that I don't think we can play this game right now, I'm not gonna support this because I didn't invent it, I didn't do it. And I think that's the whole reason why the government majority in the House doesn't want to support today's agenda at the moment. And if the majority in the Chamber of Deputies today does not approve these three draft laws addressing the issue of energy prices, then I dare say that in nine days we have Christmas, so that everyone realizes what kind of gift you're going to give to citizens. From 1 January everyone will start paying 21% VAT to the increased energy price and each household will lose CZK 1,500 from renewable sources. Overall, this is 35%. Really think about it when you raise your hand today and don't support today's agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now Vice-President Radim Fiala can come to the speaker's desk, and then Minister Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear government, allow me a few words on the overall energy situation. First of all, we should be discussing the forgiveness of VAT on energy today. The current situation requires solutions to the causes of the energy leap. Solutions such as reduction of VAT, subsidies for the poor, are only futile firefighting. That is what we have to say here, although the SPD movement says for starters it is for us to help people, that is, to help them by reducing VAT or abolishing VAT for a few months, but in any case in the future it is not a solution to this problem, and I think everyone knows that and it is necessary to look at it comprehensively. It is a temporary solution, the abolition of VAT, which, as a result, will be paid by taxpayers, i.e. citizens. Because the state has no money other than what it chooses from the people. The reduction in VAT will deepen the public species, which we will all pay again in the future. The rising price of energy is the result of the European Union's energy policy. If we don't say this, we can't solve anything. Point 2. Support for emission allowance trading. The European Union uses an instrument called the emission allowance to crush the economy of its Member States. By placing emission allowances on the market, the European Union has become emission allowances that should have had a significant relationship with the environment, securities that speculators buy, for example, US pension funds and others, so we pay not the money for the environment, but we pay the money that speculators make money on, and that, of course, is crushing our economy. The aim of this instrument is to destroy the current economy and replace it with a false ideal of green Europe and the world. The rising price of emission allowances is supposed to be an economic tool to destroy so-called emissary dirty resources, including energy sources. It is a dangerous madness that otherwise can dampen rich countries like Germany and otherwise a country that is the Czech Republic. The European Union's policy, which means increasing the price of emission allowances, is a fundamental cause and it is impossible to stop the energy crisis without eliminating this. This means that we, too, in the SPD, are inclined to step out of this emission allowance trading, following the model of Poland. Removing this cause means saying no to the European Union. We will find the allies, and Poland is about to take that step. Let us stop respecting forced economic suicide rules in the form of emission allowances. It is an ideological, not a market instrument. And now I would also like to comment on what kind of solution we have for the future. I know it's tossing peas on now, but I have to say it here, because if we're criticizing something, we should also constructively say a solution. To the energy future of our country, we must provide sufficient affordable energy. What needs to be done for this? Firstly, we must have sufficient resources. Today this means - and yesterday I was talking about it - investing in nuclear energy and not prematurely shutting down thermal power plants. Nuclear energy means not only Dukovany, but start building more blocks in Temelín immediately, because without enough energy we cannot lower prices. [[10.50 hours]] Secondly, and this is very important, and I think that unfortunately, hand in hand with the European Union, it will not be possible to strengthen the state's regulatory instruments. The State must have strong regulatory instruments on the pricing policy of producers, distributors and also on the regulation of electricity exports. If the price of our generated energy is determined by a German customer, then our people will not pay. That means if we can make that energy here, we have to leave it here, not trade it on stock exchanges, we have to leave it here for Czech citizens. And if we can't secure it, it's gonna be a big problem. And thirdly, the most important thing is not to submit to the Green Deal and emission allowance totalitarianism. We will appeal to this, and we will confront the new government at every opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u21	I thank the chairman of the SPD to Radim Fial. Next, who is registered with priority rights, is the Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Chairman of the ANO Club Alena Schillerová. Before I give her my word, I'll allow myself to read my apologies. I have here an apology from Mr Jan Bauer, who apologizes for today's meeting from 11 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. I also have here an apology from the meeting of the Chamber meeting from 10.30 to 11.15 from Mr Vlastimil Válek, also for work reasons, and the last apology is to Mr Špičák from the meeting from 11.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. That was all the apologies. I hereby give the floor to Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u22	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Let me briefly respond to some of my previous speakers here. Mr President Jurečka, through Madam President, and partly to Mr Adamec, I will begin there, at least you are present, Mr Mr President, through Madam Vice-President, at least you have discipline. That's okay, maybe President Jurečka is watching the screen. What three four months and the awakening of this ending government are you talking about? When did the energy crisis begin? The turn of September, October? Okay, well, I'll admit to you sometime the end of September. On 20 October, the government sat down and had these proposals prepared and approved them at its meeting on 20 October. On November 1st, they arrived here in the Chamber of Deputies, so if I had taken into account how you would have wanted it more quickly, when there was no energy crisis, when there was no energy crisis, we should have made some suggestions? That's what it was for almost a day. And if I were to admit that there was a set-up meeting between November 8-10, you've left it here ever since. And then, without a word of explanation, completely in captivity to your pride, you took it out of the meeting agenda. Without a word - we don't want it because, that's why, or some pre-negotiation, because you have a hundred eights here and you're going to roll us. But we're not gonna keep quiet just 'cause you've got a hundred and eighty here. We'll talk here and explain it to the citizens. That's what we're supposed to do. So you guys left it here and don't mention the 15th that it's December 15th today. Thanks to you, it is not until December 15th on the agenda of this extraordinary meeting because we could not watch it and because we have called this extraordinary meeting. So let's get this straight. Thank you. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] Thank you. Let's move on. You are troubled by the contradiction with EU law. So am I. I'm a lawyer. Thank you Jurečka reminding me. I know that, and I just want to warn him not to confuse the difference - with all humility, without wanting to mentor him - between national law and European law. We can adopt this legislation and the Government's legislative board had to point out, that is its duty, there was the President's position, there was no legislative board, but she has to point out that this is contrary to EU law, otherwise it would not be in its place. We can accept it, but we are putting ourselves at risk of sanctions, infringement and sanctions. That is why I have called for negotiations on European soil. Of course, in writing, absent President Jurečka, through the Vice-President, in writing. And the negotiations have been under way, as is customary, and you might remember that, Mr. absent President Jurečka, through Madam Vice-President, because you have been a minister for some time and will be again. So you know that these are going on at technical level, in writing, they're going to negotiate, and then they're going to negotiate a political meeting, and that happened last week. And that political act, it's not a pat on the shoulders. This is a strong message, a clear political agreement - I have an understanding for you. The Commissioner could also say: No, it is contrary to European law. I understand. We're moving this to a technical level. And as my party colleague, Vice-President of the House, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, said very well, it is now up to the future finance minister to make it happen. So if he's - and if you're after - the citizens of this country, then he just has to make it. 25 billion blackout, it's 20 to 25, okay, I take it, that's not relevant right now. Do you realize that we would leave the money in the pockets of our citizens, our Czech households? Not only the socially weak, I'll talk about it in a minute, the socially weak, but especially the middle class? Don't citizens write you, don't you get thousands of messages like I get? I don't believe it. I'm sure they're texting you. And to cover yourself by blacking out in the budgets of ammunition, I'm begging you... Thanks to our government, which is ending, the economic situation of the regions, cities and municipalities is, thanks to the fact that we put in compensatory bonuses, and you, Mr. Ambassador, were or were still mayor - I don't know, through Madam Vice-President, you know that. Since 1 January 2021, we have raised the budget for tax determination so that the regions have reached a surplus of 7.5 billion by the end of September, the municipalities have reached a surplus of 36,9 billion and so on. I could give you - I have the numbers right here on my phone - the surpluses and so on. Management is better than before the crisis, and it's good. It's not regret, just please think of the citizens. How many times have I heard from the mouths of your representatives in this House: Leave the money to the citizens, they know best what to do with them. These are all amendments for the last year and a half from the pen of your opposition Members, former opposition members, who are mostly still sitting here in this parliamentary term, where you are proposing various proposals to reduce taxes and various proposals which are also contrary to EU law. We've had a big debate here, an increase in the threshold for mandatory plating and so on. I don't want to leave the subject, we've already negotiated this in Brussels, it'll be in three months. And these are the proposals for tens of billions. So in other words, Phariseeism. When you sat in opposition, you made suggestions as a tearing calendar. We're not doing that. We will be dating proposals when it makes sense when it helps the citizens of this country and our households. That is why we have come up with this proposal. And the clear result was the general apology I made for November and December. I said this in my introductory speech that this general pardon brought down VAT, November month-on-month, brought down electricity prices by more than 16 percent, gas by more than 11 percent, so let us get this straight. [[11.00 hours]] You've been talking about this - President Jurečka, I'm glad he's already here - that you're going to do it differently, you're going to do it systemically, you're going to test and you're going to explain. Well, that's what they really eat. Testing 4.5 million households? Have you ever, Mr President Jurečka, through the Vice-President, seen the forms of the resort you will be running from Friday? Have you seen them? I've got them here. That's no remorse for an MPSV or a clerk. They just have to make the forms - I'm an old ex-officer - they have to make the forms to conform to the law. Who's gonna make it? Of course, we're doing the extra immediate help. We're not waiting for you to give us advice. It's already working. But the emergency immediate assistance cannot be applied to advances, except for payments. Yeah, well, if he accidentally gets into trouble with the backups that he doesn't have other costs, then that's okay. How many of these people are there? 150,000, 200,000? Will the middle class reach it? He won't. The one for which you specifically, Mr President Jurečka, through the Vice-President, have always fought in the breasts here during the last term. The businessmen, the middle class, how they're hurt. So you don't care anymore because you're going to the government? That's how I see it. That's how I see it! [[A round of applause from members of the YES.]] Thank you. And now for your social benefits. On Monday, we spent almost three hours on the government's housing allowance because a new government regulation had to be adopted on 1 January, and we didn't want to put you in a situation where you couldn't make it. That's what we meant fair and square, which is why we discussed him with the effort to help, because if it hadn't been since January 1st - it's for a whole year, it wouldn't have been enough to help those people. Three hours. I've asked the Prime Minister to invite Deputy Man in distress, Mr. Hůle. Sociologist Mr. Prokop came in. Finally, we invited the President of the Czech Statistical Office, Mr Rojíček. Three hours, maybe longer, we talked about it. It just doesn't have a solution. The Act on State Social Support, which contains a mandate for this Government regulation, is designed in such a way - and then subsequently - that it must be based on those data retroactively. This means that the allowance, the standard, for housing for the purposes of calculating the allowance, can be increased, so data will be taken until October at the most. There hasn't been a full-blown energy crisis yet. Did you hear Karel Havlíček, my colleague, how the energy will grow next year? 30 to 70 per cent. That's what we could have dreamed of this year, if we compared it, these numbers. That means look at Twitter, pan Hůle. I'm sure you won't suspect him to be some pro-government supporter. I've always had a very fair relationship with him, but of course we all defend what we represent. He set a beautiful example there, after the government's meeting, but unfortunately that's the case. We, of course, when we found out about this - I'll read it in a minute - so we still agreed and discussed the amendment to the Act on State Social Support - MPSV had it ready. She's heading now -- maybe she's here in the House attic -- you'll get another chance. But when it's going to be discussed, when it's going to be adjusted so that the predictions can be made, and those people could, the socially weak ones, be helped... But please, it's a drop in the sea. So please, what you're saying - we're testing, explaining - it's just useless. These are the facts. Now listen to Mr. Daniel Hůle's tweet. I'm reading it directly from his Twitter. Quote, so he wrote, "painted. A self-living pensioner with an income of CZK 14,000, which pays for housing of CZK 10,000, has a housing allowance of CZK 1,453. In a month, he'll be paying 11,300. Thanks to the MPSV" - he says here, but that's because of the legislation - "his contribution will rise by 140 crowns to 1 593. For living, the circus will pay 70 percent of the income." So that's your system help. That's just how it is. Those are the facts, that's how it goes. But we come up with another solution because this is not the solution. We're all gonna get a chance to fix this bill, we're gonna get this chance. Those are the facts, that's set. If we're talking about the consumer price index, we were trying to interpret it. Unfortunately, you won't get a prediction. So where do you come up with this? Because if you had another system solution... And I say quite frankly, I would welcome that, that is a common problem as is a covid common problem. Maybe next week we'll discuss the emergency situation and we won't do to you what you did to us, we'll be constructive about this. This, too, is our common problem. So please don't worry and let go of our drafts on the agenda. Let them go and let them talk about it. It's a quick chance. It's a chance to help these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, and for information at this moment, because many of you are coming to see me, who is still logged in at the moment. I have three applications with priority rights at the moment, namely President Jakub Michálek, Chairman of Jan Farský and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. At the same time, before I give the floor to the President of the Czech Pirate Party club Jakuba Michálek, I would like to reread one apology from the meeting, namely Miloslav Janulík, who apologizes between 12 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. Before I give the floor to Jakuba Michálek, who may already come to the counter, I would ask you all not to shout from the benches of the House to the one who speaks. Thank you very much. So Jakub Michálek. I see Prime Minister Jurečka reporting and Mr. Adamec reporting, but he's leaving. Here I would like to say that President Benda's apology was until 10:30, so the apology would have to continue. So, Mr. Michálek, Chairman of the Czech Pirate Party. I give him that word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u24	Luckily, it's just the MP's club. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I think we're all aware of the problem here that hundreds of thousands of households have to pay for significant amounts, up to a thousand crowns, more. The reason for this problem, as has been said here, is not only an increase in the prices of allowances, it is only a fraction of that amount, but it is also a renewal of the demand for the pandemic of coronavirus and also an increase in gas prices. This needs to be said straight so that misleading information does not sound here, so that we do not pretend that environmental policy is responsible for everything. I think it is really inappropriate timing for us to discuss these bills proposed by the outgoing government two days before the arrival of a new government that has legitimacy from the elections that have taken place. I do not think that the solution presented by the outgoing government is helping those who need help in the way they deserve, on the contrary, creating huge impacts on the state budget - CZK 2 billion a month. The middle class, of course, realizes that if we cancel taxes on electricity, the debt - because it only goes to debt - will have to be paid and that it will be the middle class in particular. During the entire process of the 2 billion, a large part of the savings will end up with the owners of energy companies. Of course, this will also lead to an increase in electricity consumption and will lead to further pressure on price growth, so it will become the opposite of what would be needed to help these people as best as possible. I would urge us to remain reasonable in order to give the new government room to prepare an adjustment that will really help people who have been hit, but it will not be at the expense of a billion-dollar debt, which is merely a continuation of populism and which is essentially the last populist step that this government can take in its capacity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u25	I also thank the President of the MP's club, Mr Jakuba Michálek. Mr. Jan Farský, President of the STAN Parliamentary Club, has now signed up with priority, and Minister Richard Brabec will prepare himself. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you here the opinion of the Mayors and Independents Club on how we will stand up for the approval of the agenda for today's meeting. I'll give you a brief summary first. Energy has been growing since June, their prices jumped critically in September, and Bohemia Energy fell on October 14. A million people found themselves in a really difficult situation when they started walking backups from the supplier of the last instance, so they were five-, eight-, ten-fold, and for many people it was really a crisis moment that meant they wouldn't have the power to pay for next week or month. At first it was also a mess, we didn't get the information completely. The very evening or the second evening, Minister Havlíček spoke about the fact that the owners of Bohemia Energy are actually energy-shammers, and that's how he marked them. After what happened and how the owners behaved, I take it as an entirely relevant view and a description of the situation, but the question is what they were doing until then. What did the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport do? What was our double minister doing in order that this would not happen, so that people would not fall into the last instance supplier's regime, where they are simply in a situation for several weeks and often months when the solution to energy really is beyond their economic possibilities? What did the Energy Regulatory Office, which works here, we have been paying for it for years, has it in its mission to supervise energy suppliers, to supervise them, has consumer protection in its mission, what did it do? How did he react? The fact that he was also a victim of his incompetence a few days ago and fell into the last instance's supplier's regime because his supplier also stopped supplying and failed, that is to illustrate the completely parodyal result of this government. A dysfunctional institution, a non-functioning government and a result? The result is that people are in trouble. What's being presented here is such a solution, I'm sorry, but it's an eyewitness solution. It's consistent with the way the YES movement governs, but it's just plain shitty. The depéháček, the legislative board of the government, and the Chamber of Tax Advisors, will be abolished, everyone just says, "Well, it's against the law, you can't just do it like that. No, we're gonna do it because it looks good and it looks like we're doing something, and we're gonna pretend we're doing something so people don't say that we totally bailed on them. But real help to people who have a $2,000 bill up from their account to 12, 13,000 in the course of a month, that's just not a solution for them, that's not enough, that's not enough, they're gonna get a 300 per cent increase and you're gonna cut it by 20 per cent. And you're not just gonna lower it down for them, but you're gonna lower it down for those who don't need it at all. That's how you get into society, or you cut public budgets by CZK 25 billion. How many of them are released effectively? If we have 100,000 households in a crisis situation and we would send CZK 20,000 each, how much is that? That's not 20 billion, that's 2 billion crowns. Where's the rest of it going? Where's the money? It's just not targeted, and it's kind of from a helicopter throwing away a bunch of money and money that doesn't have a consideration that just goes back to rising prices here, reducing the value of money, eating away at inflation, losing people's savings, and getting more expensive. That's not the answer. It looks good on the eye, but if you raise someone's accounts by 300 percent and they drop by 20 percent in counter-tow, it's just that it's still an increase by 280 percent. The fact that the Modernization Fund is tumbling, which is supposed to prevent such situations from happening here in the future, is supposed to help people to have photovoltaic power plants on their roofs, for example, so that community electricity sharing can work -- someone has a roof, the other has consumption, so they provide it with each other. These are the areas where we need to go with the Modernization Fund so that people will not only be reduced by a few hundred crowns to thousands next year, but to know that energy will be available to them in five, ten, fifteen, twenty years, and that the price will not grow to heights, because if the Modernization Fund does not apply wisely, this situation can occur repeatedly. And we'll always forgive the dépéháček, even though it's cosmetic treatment and even if it's contrary to legislation? Indeed, this approach is not something that we can support. For us, it is clear that this solution - at least as we see it at the moment, but ministers will be appointed only on Friday, will proceed to their departments, yet it is one of the key priorities and, as promised next week, the government will focus on it - is simply primarily communication and cooperation with the suppliers of the last instance. This is where the government reacted and did a really good job. Then there is interest in more than 100,000 people being at the supplier's last instance, even they themselves say: These are prices that simply are not appropriate, pass over. Are we communicating with these people? Have we contacted them all yet? Or did we at least try? Is there any campaign that's moving them to the classic suppliers just because they're already taking this step to reduce the costs they have? We have a parastate company CEZ, she was for a large part of the Republic or is the supplier of the last instance. How did he communicate with him to provide his role, the pillow that he can provide at least in the backups, if not in the final billing? And then there's an extraordinary immediate aid and a contribution to housing, two solutions that are in the government's competence, we don't have to meet in the House in front of the cameras, here to pretend that we're doing big solutions, and yet the solutions are just for the best, and when they are, they're expensive for the whole company - they don't really help those who need them, but they're all gonna pay for them. That's why we're not going to support these three laws here. The promise from the incoming ministers is that they will come up with a solution. They will come in the order of days, it will not be so that we wait for this solution as with this government for several months and then we will push you to the wall and say: If you do not approve today, you have taken the whole Republic hostage. This kind of policy, this populist way of policy that fakes action instead of actually looking for a solution, we're not going to apply that here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, that was the chairman of the Jan Farský Parliamentary Club. At this point, with priority rights, I have four applications registered, Mr. Environment Minister Richard Brabec, Marian Jurečka, Karel Havlíček, Ivan Adamec. Before the Minister of the Environment comes to the counter, I'll read the apologies. Ivan Bartoš apologizes for today's meeting from 11 to 13 o'clock for work reasons and at the same time extends his apology to ODS President Marek Benda until 12 o'clock. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. I originally wanted to respond to my colleague Adamec, who was talking about the Modernisation Fund here, and I just wanted to explain a few numbers, but I was beautifully recorded by my colleague Farský, President Farský, and I, through Madam President, Mr President, beg the words as a tunning of the Modernisation Fund. I hope you meant it with exaggeration, but if you -- yes, you nod, that's fine, so I'll take it. I think we have different contents for the words of tunneling, and we would assign them to other governments and political parties than those that currently rule. But that's not the point. [[11.20 hours]] I mean, that's why I came here just to clarify a few more numbers, because my colleague Adamec said something that is definitely important and it is important to respond to it. This means, again, specific figures: we have already written seven calls from the Modernization Fund with allocation of approximately CZK 18 billion this year, 26 projects have already been signed, approved and 300 projects for another CZK 30 billion are under assessment. Between 2022 and 2023, we expect the requirements for the Modernization Fund to be around CZK 50 billion. These numbers are currently being sent to the European Commission, but the resources available from the Modernization Fund, as I said, should be CZK 100 billion by the end of 2023. So it is clear, and I want to emphasise again, that without somehow blocking the possibility of drawing from the Modernization Fund - by the way, the photovoltaic panels and others for citizens, this is, above all, a matter of, let's say, New green savings have been running very successfully for many years and we have made tens of thousands of projects with it. However, it is clear that the Modernisation Fund is an important source. But, please note, those projects that will draw from it, including large projects such as heat plants, are projects that have been spread over many years. Ask your colleague Král how long he plans and when he expects the hothouse in České Budějovice to really find the new resources that need to be used. That means it's not about us needing all that money this year or next year. No, we're going to need those gradually, and I'm going to make sure that even if, according to our proposal, we had some of those allowances in the state budget, which I don't think of as tunneling, if the money goes into the state budget, we could use them differently at this point. But most importantly, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, it is a quick journey. It may well be that if we don't help these people and help those companies, they'll end their business sooner than they'll ever live to see the investment. So what we need here is the operational help quickly to give them the money, and maybe even the heat plants, to help before those people in the finals decide to disconnect from the heat room and go to some wood boiler. So that's why the proposals are to get the money fast, and that doesn't mean we're gonna put the Modernization Fund at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u29	Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec and now President KDU-ČSL, Mr Marian Jurečka, has taken the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u30	Thank you very much. I'm just going to allow myself to react briefly here, and I'm going to use a certain analogy. The Minister of Finance has been talking about the aid, but I would like to compare it to a situation that everyone can imagine. We're going to have a number of people drowning on the surface of the pond, and then there's some who swim there, some who can handle the situation completely fine, and you come up with a solution that says, we're going to lower your pond level by 20 centimeters. So those who manage, swim, have some of their own security, they'll be fine, but those who don't reach the bottom will drown, instead of standing in this analogy come and say to you who are drowning, so we won't lower the level of the pond by 20 centimeters, but we'll give you life jackets, we'll get you out of this situation, we'll pull you out to shore, and you'll be able to function without losing any of your important security for the existence of a man. That's the difference in looking at this situation. And if we can and we have the tools, I really don't care about your argument by saying, "Look how complicated it is, this is the result of your government." That's not the result of our government. I'm guaranteeing here, and I'm saying that how this aid will be administered will be simple, understandable and quick. That's what we're doing. And the middle-class argument and all that: we also have to say fair and square if it's your solution, that someone has to pay it, that it's on debt. Who's gonna pay for this? All taxpayers will pay for it, all households who pay taxes in this country will pay for it. These will bear the costs of this general solution, which does not produce the result. It's very simple. There's nothing further and there's no point in talking about it. We'll be responsible for helping these people from Friday. This is true and the solution must really be implemented in the order of days or units of weeks, not presented, but in the implementation. And you really trained us here in the last parliamentary term as Minister of Finance when you said: You are proposing things that are contrary to the European Union's VAT law, even if they were proposals, Madam Secretary, which had deliberately delayed effectiveness so that the Ministry of Finance could, for example, discuss the exemption, but here you will make a bill where you deny yourself. I could pull up the tapes of you here when you said you couldn't do it. And here you have yourself in your material, when anyone clicks it not only from Members and Members, but also from the public, so in the material for this press you have written in point 4: "The assessment of the compatibility of proposed legislation with the obligations arising for the Czech Republic from its membership in the European Union." The first sentence: "The proposed legislation is incompatible with the law of the European Union, as this does not make it possible to introduce an exemption with a right to deduct the tax on the supply of electricity and gas'. So what do we want to talk about here? You're not gonna negotiate this. You're referring here to act. You don't negotiate, so what? What will be for the Czech Republic then? I mean, the rule of law can't work like that. That's not how a responsible minister of this government can work to bring in material like this with his own text that the government put in the material. Then we say we don't respect any rules, everyone here does what they want. And who will be responsible for this? So let's go back to what makes sense, what we're really able to address to these people as a way of helping them to realize that help. A flat-rate solution with huge costs that the taxpayer has to pay once in a situation where the solution is on debt is really not a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. Mr KDU-ČSL. And now with priority rights the Minister of Transport and Minister of Industry and Trade Karel Havlíček. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u32	Thank you. Have a good day, everyone. We've heard a lot of sides to the future coalition, but nothing completely concrete. We keep telling ourselves that we're going to come up with something and that the solution will certainly be a good one and that the solution will fall on the really disabled. You've already acted, we know, with a whole range of market players. You've dealt with the ERU, you've dealt with distributors, suppliers, and so on. Then specifically, how many people do you think are going to have a chance of achieving this support? So let's just say exactly how it's going to serve. Okay, one thing is, if any form gets easier. It's quite possible that they'll simplify. Maybe the law's still gonna change, but it's gonna take some time for the help to get through the housing. But how many people are there? How many people today will be able to expect support in January and February? Will it be 10,000 people, 100,000 people, 500,000 people? For the record, those who are currently on the edge of so-called energy poverty, who, in our opinion, simply have to be clear, are 15 percent of households. These are the figures that came from the TACR analysis, the Energy Regulatory Office, the University of Economics. So if we have 4.3 million households, we can multiply it, and we get 600,000, 700,000, and that could get worse. So let's just say that we are going to serve this necessary group, which must de facto receive the support immediately, through the forms of the employment office. How will they stand, because it logically concerns families, or households, when we talk about the numbers, those members, those representatives, those actors in January queue at the employment office and when they get the support. Do they get it by backup? But that's not possible. They can only get it when they're billing. So now I see how this is going to work out. That's what bothers me. You're basically saying, "We're going to give the most needy or those who need the most, but we can't tell how many there are, and we can't tell how much we're going to give it to them." [[11.30 hours]] That's why we're going across the road because it's far from just going to be this group. How will we deal with self-employed people who have no chance of achieving this at all? Shall we throw them overboard? We've got a million businessmen here, we've been listening for a year that we don't support them enough, even though we think we've given them decent covido support, but I've been taking the debate, I've understood it. So what do we do? Nothing? So we're going to explain to all those craftsmen, all those traders, all those people who need that energy, and somehow take a breath, so they get nothing? And how are we going to deal with businesses? How do we deal with industry? Why does it only turn to VAT? Why isn't there a debate on renewables, which is the only tool that can help companies today? We can't think of another one. There is no other tool if we want to help energy. The second thing is, you can come up with it - we'll do nothing. Those companies are just unlucky, it's a market environment, everyone has to take care of themselves. Yes, that's the solution, too, but let's put it that way. Let's say, to the fullest extent, that companies get nothing. I'll take it. At least we'll know where we stand. But if we want to help them, then there is no other solution than the Renewable Resources Support Act, which means that we will partially forgive them for renewable resources. All of this solves these proposals together, so there's nothing wrong with it. On the contrary, we say that we will help someone without telling whom we will help and when we will help them. And please, as the discussion on Bohemia Energy, the DPI, was held here. Good morning, we're not dealing with that here. The DPI doesn't have anything to do with discussing these three laws. We're going into a far worse situation than DPI and Bohemia Energy. Yes, of course, that's a problem, not just with us, in Britain, see what's happening everywhere. And, yes, we can criticize the ERÚ for what it could or couldn't do, but in any case, it has to act legally. After all, those of you who are in the energy business - and I see a lot of people here - know very well that the ERO couldn't react because it would be illegal. Mr. Král here is an expert, I respect him because he understands it, and he knows it very well and he nods his head that he couldn't do anything to the ERO, because if he did, it was over. How could a million customers say they'd be canceled? He can't do it. There'd be lawsuits at that point, of course. It is a consequence of, of course, European laws, let us also say that. Yes, the European environment, fully liberalised, is that nothing could be done about it. But that's different. Of course, I also understand the problem that came up and dealt with immediately, it was dealt with through the reduction of advances, it was dealt with by communication with the suppliers of the last instance, and mainly by downloading VAT to zero, which helped - I think it helped a whole number of users if not saved, so it helped them immensely. So please let's not worry about Bohemia Energy, DPI, that's a completely different story. It is of course important to finish the game, but this is about increasing energy at least in the next year, perhaps in the next year, regardless of Bohemia Energy. That would happen anyway - for reasons that we have said here many times and which do not miss us - this appreciation. So, once again, the three questions were - how many people, how we're going to solve the CFI and how industrial companies will be solved. If you tell us this, then we will discuss your proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u33	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport, and at this moment I have the last one registered with priority rights, namely Vice-President Ivan Adamec. As Vice-President, he acts with priority rights because Marek Benda is excused. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u34	Yes, thank you for your word. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to use priority rights here. I'm sorry we can't all be involved in this discussion here, it would be more interesting. I do not want to respond here to some of the views of the Minister and Ministers, because I think there is a problem somewhere else in front of us at the moment. Either we vote to discuss these points today or we don't vote. And since I'm the last one so far, I hope the last one to discuss, I would ask for a ten-minute break for the Civic Democrats' Club. Once the debate is over, I would like to come forward once more.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. I'm gonna ask if anyone else is applying with priority rights at this point? At the moment, following the request of the ODS MEP and according to the Rules of Procedure, I am declaring a 10-minute break until 11.44 when we will meet again here in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u36	The honourable Members, honourable Members, representatives of the Government, will continue with the agenda for the fifth meeting. The break is over, and at this point, I have another application with priority rights - the floor of the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the ANO club, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Before I give you my word, I'd like everyone to settle in their desks, and if I could just ask if the O.R. would be a little quieter. If there's anything you need to discuss, please go to the lobby. Thank you, and at this moment, I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u37	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. In short, I will only respond very quickly to President Jurečka, because he was not here in the room when I explained it. Of course, I know that this proposal is not compatible with EU law and the responsibility of the Prime Minister's legislative board was to draw attention to this, which is its role. But please, let us not confuse the difference between national law and European law. We can accept the adjustment, we are in danger of sanctions, and that is what I have discussed with Commissioner Gentiloni, I have been given a political promise, and it needs to be done. A strong political promise. Of course, we also discussed this in writing. One more sentence on what you said, through Madam President. If we don't help these people now, and not just the 250, 200,000 you're talking about, 150,000 if we don't help the company, the households, then maybe the taxes will have to be paid. And I will not remind you, through Madam President, how many times you have had different proposals here. I've got them all here. I forgot them on the counter. The proposals are much worse, for tens of billions, and you have just been fencing here, through Madam President, by not letting this middle layer fall. Now, to Mr Adamc. Mr President, through Madam President, I would also very much like it if it did not just discuss priority rights here. I'd like that very much. It would be important for individual club experts to have a chance to talk about it, because of course my colleagues would like to talk about it. They cannot, because the Rules of Procedure are relentless in this regard. But that's easy - give this proposal a chance if it bothers you so much, and let's talk about it at a proper plenary meeting! However, before the vote is taken, I appeal once again: this is a serious issue. Let's put down these political skirmishes here, let's not politicize this subject, and let's agree that this is the solution, it's the way. You have no solution. You have no solution! The government will be created on Friday, until you agree on it, and the result will be long weeks, when these people will really depend and be in big trouble. I'm offering: Let's talk about it again! Let's not be hasty! And at this point, I would ask, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, for a 15-minute break, because we still want to have some fun. We are prepared to offer you any discussion, if necessary, and please our colleagues, to meet in the Acts at the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u38	Thank you, Madam President of the ANO Group of Deputies. At the request of the ANO and the Rules of Procedure, I am declaring a 15-minute break and meeting here at 12.03 pm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a nice noon. The time set for the club break is over, and we can continue our negotiations today. I don't have anyone on the agenda right now, which is why I'm still looking to see if anyone wants to do that. If this is not the case, we shall be able to take a vote. I'm hearing an application for check-out, which is why I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking you to log in with your I.D. cards. Once again, I will call all the Members to the ballroom. When our numbers are settled, we can begin the vote. Madam Members, I am opening the vote on the agenda of the meeting, as it was tabled, and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 178 Members, 83 of them supported, 84 opposed, and the agenda for today's meeting was therefore rejected. Now, with priority rights, Mrs Schillerová is reporting to the Minister of Demission. [[Sudden noise in the hall.]] I'm asking for peace of mind for the Secretary's speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Excuse me, Madam President, I'm sorry. Today was all about the Vice-Presidents. That was close. Tight. One vote. Two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u41	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u42	All we had to do was listen to the call made by your Members, Mr Adamec, to move this into the debate and to get 200 Members, or to how many there would be, a chance to comment on the subject. It was about your decision. It was a quick solution, a very effective aid for millions of our citizens, for hundreds of thousands of Czech households. We'll keep a close eye on what you come up with. There's been a commitment here that you'll come in the order of days. And if there is no such solution - and, President Jurečka, through Madam President, 1,500 crowns are not small for many Czech households, which are now dealing with huge problems especially before Christmas - unless you come up with a solution that will help address the energy price increase by 30 to 70 percent, which will come next year, we will be here again and we will call on these extraordinary meetings and propose these clear solutions that helped immediately, because the general Pardon, which I approved in November and December, has clearly shown that in November prices have already fallen by more than 16 per cent for electricity and by more than 11 per cent for gas. You have taken the citizens of the Czech Republic hostage and it is your conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u43	Mr Okamura has now also signed up with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u44	So I think the result of the last two meetings of the Chamber of Deputies this year is clear. The new upcoming five-wheeler has no solution for citizens to solve the energy upheaval, because yesterday I proposed only a friendly discussion point here to discuss the solution to the upheaval, inflation and the coming energy crisis in the Czech Republic. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] The voices of the new government five-calice - which must be said, who it is, it is ODS, TOP 09, STAN, KDU-ČSL and Pirates, but also the votes of the members of the ANO movement - this point has been rejected. That is why we have given politically the softest possible option - a discussion of solutions so that at least you have the opportunity to offer some solutions. You rejected that, too. And today, when there was a second opportunity for us to discuss your proposals to resolve the price of citizens who now have bills every month, hundreds of thousands, millions, citizens are desperate, there is also a risk of falling into debt traps, executions and the like, because they don't have the expensive energy and they don't have the money, so you are again your voices of this emerging government five-wheeler headed by Prime Minister Petr Fiala - he is now going to drop his sight and his head down, I'm not surprised. [[Peter Fiala is sitting in the front desk.]] [[Laughs in the hall. A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] Now you're nodding that you don't have a solution. Okay. But I mean, it's really serious. So two days in a row you had the opportunity to present to the citizens of the Czech Republic your solution to the price increase. You didn't introduce anything at all, you rejected it and you refused any discussion. This means: yes, you take full responsibility from tomorrow for solving the Czech Republic's price increases. You don't have a solution now. You're not even offering it in your upcoming programming statement. There's nothing there about the solution. And we expect that as soon as you take the government, which is tomorrow, you will introduce... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] ... on Friday, the day after tomorrow, so you introduce and solve the auction in the Czech Republic. Please, no excuses. I know you. You guys are gonna be making excuses for a long time - to seduce Babiš, other stuff and all that. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] But you've been saying for a year that you're ready to rule. For a year! That means I'm asking you, Prime Minister Petr Fiala, to present the solution to the price increase immediately and solve it. You guys need to figure this out. No one else can figure it out. I've already recorded your comments in the media: A year. It won't be in a year. I read it a few days ago. It won't go that fast. What year? [[In an elevated voice.]] That's two years from now, because you've been saying you're ready for a year! A year plus a year! So you don't even care after two years. You're not ready! So you need three years to do that. [[Peter Fiala nods his head.]] Yeah, now you've been nodding for three years. Well, those people don't have the money. I mean, you've been nodding around here. It's also on TV cameras. Please, in three years? That's scary! Or how long? How's it gonna take? Prime Minister, can I ask you to go on the mike and tell me when you're going to solve the price? Answer a simple question. You asked the same question in the previous parliamentary term of the current government. We were the opposition - the SPD. Now, get on the mic and tell those ten million people, including the kids, when you're gonna figure out the price. Simple question, Prime Minister. Please respond! Now you're looking at me. Through the cameras, it's... I mean, you're four meters away from me, three meters away. We're looking into each other's eyes. [[A round of applause from the SPD and YES benches.]] Now, come on up to the mic and call it a five-wheeler. It's before Christmas, people don't have money, they'd like to enjoy the holidays. So answer the question here now. Please don't be a pussy! And answer here when you'll solve the price! [[Noise in the hall.]] Let's get people ready. Let them know because they get fixed salaries every month, incomes, but costs are rising, so now they need clear advice from the new Prime Minister and from the new five-wheeler, clear information. These people don't have money! They don't have salaries like you, Prime Minister! [[In an elevated voice.]] [[12.10 hours]] Your government coalition voted against freezing politicians' salaries, against the SPD proposal. So you've had enough, and I need to - I can see the Prime Minister anyway, yeah. [[Members are calling from the benches.]] The Prime Minister has now leaned out so that we can look into the eyes, so that Mrs Černochová, through yours, can stand here. [[The MP is standing in front of the speaker's counter.]] The Prime Minister doesn't need to cover his eyes, okay? Well, I have to say, we can look into the eyes. [[I think you can see, don't you?]] So now, please come to the microphone and tell me when and how you're going to solve the price increase, especially when, because people now need a timetable, a time horizon, so they can build a budget at home. So when, now, come on, please, say it. And if this concludes the meeting here, without saying when - and just pointing out to citizens and viewers that the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is not until mid-January - that is, don't let the citizens wait for a month to wait to see how much more expensive it will take, how much more money they will have left. Many Czech families, and they are often SPD voters, they are decent working families with children and cannot save a month or a thousand crowns! They're coming at the edge! So, Prime Minister, let's tell you when you're gonna figure this out. When! [[With a strong voice.]] Let's get people ready. There you go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-15-ps2021-005-01-000-000.u45	Since the agenda has not been approved and no one else is claiming priority rights, I am ending this fifth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Members are beating the benches, buzzing and calling.]] Calm down, please. Finally, I would like to remind you that on Tuesday, January 11, 2022, a sixth meeting of the Chamber of Deputies was convened at 14:00. Ladies and gentlemen, I bid you farewell for today and have a good day.
