ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u1	287. Proposal by Members Jan Birk, Jan Hamáček, Jan Chvojka and others for the issue of a law on public utility housing companies and the construction of accessible housing and amending certain laws (Law No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, and Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Companies and Cooperatives (Company Corporations Act), as amended) /German Press 952/ - First Reading Mrs Věra Procházková votes with the replacement card number 15. So first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 952/1. I prosit that Mr Jan Birke present the proposal for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, allow me, if possible, to briefly justify my proposal and my colleagues according to House Press 952 as it has been said, for the issue of the Act on beneficial housing companies and beyond. Short justification. The current state of housing policy is not good, and housing itself, especially for young people in larger cities, is becoming relatively inaccessible luxury. The young generation, but also citizens of about 40 years of age, are beginning to realize that housing is a huge lifelong burden for them, and the proposals for buying an apartment are what offers are insufficient demand, higher is the supply of ownership housing, so it does not have a cheaper alternative. [[to]] This affects both family policy and the living standards of seniors. Not only do low-income population groups have a big problem with the availability of their own housing, but also medium-income and long-term impacts of the current coronar crisis will certainly affect many other citizens in the coming years. I could present examples and facts for hours not only from the mayor's side, but I think you have a whole series of your own examples, and I'm sure you'll be right about this. Allow me, however, to stick to the main proposal by being able to - even though I understand that this law will have to be subject to discussion in committees, I understand it and I respect it - but we have the opportunity to change the situation. We did not want to take this into account for many of the desperate situations as I described it, and we come up with an effective solution, which is to increase the pace of housing construction, but not only more expensive, commercial, but also municipal, cheaper and cooperative. It is precisely the draft law on publicly beneficial housing companies and the construction of available housing that should change this. The draft law should allow the construction of affordable apartments, which should be about a third cheaper than the classic market price. Please take it that what I'm saying is actually roughly, because it may be the subject of the debate. How do we want to achieve this discount? By defining the non-profit character of housing construction that will enable affordable housing to be built. As I have pointed out earlier, when I have already mentioned our intention many times in the past, this is not an experiment and a step into the unknown, even though some opposers of this proposal speak so. But this system is tested in a number of developed countries. In the modern countries of the European Union, more than 25 percent of the total number of flats is cheap, available. In Austria, for example, there are up to 30 percent of all apartments of this nature, and it is in Austria that legislation still applies to this type of housing construction until 1948. Another example can be Germany, France, or Great Britain. In the UK, there is even the so-called Housing Association - it stores or has more than 2.3 million apartments in its portfolio. Who should build apartments with us? They should be publicly beneficial companies with special legislation for their activities and the construction of flats which may take the form of cooperatives, associations, limited liability companies or joint-stock companies. All these forms, despite their specific characteristics, combine a common principle, which is to ensure affordable housing, not profit to the investor. The aim of these new companies is not to profit from sales, but to serve citizens and founders to get an apartment at the price of land, construction works, i.e. for the purchase cost. Our analysis shows that this will reduce the price of the apartment by at least one third compared to the price of the apartment on the market at this time. The law grants a number of permissions to municipalities. Here I am free to speak as a member, not just of the council, but of the authorities. They can set up such a company, deposit the land in it as a property deposit if they have it - and I think that there are a number of municipalities that have land for the construction of flats, working with other legal entities, such as cooperatives. It simply brings a new segment to the market, an offer and counts on the citizens' own activity, who want to get an apartment. These are fundamental changes and, in my opinion and in the opinion of my colleagues and translators, the necessary changes. [[9.50 hours]] Of course, control mechanisms must be properly set up so that this system is not abused and the apartments actually serve those for whom they are intended. It must be prevented by speculation with flats type cheaply bought, expensively sold, we know it from practice, and is also expected to regulate in the area of rental. The current housing policy is characterized by unnecessary ownership housing, weakened housing in rentals, ignoring people's needs on the outskirts of society, and by this law we can return to the right path. [[bytes]] We therefore come up with an alternative to developer-organized building of property flats that would make apartments available goods. All statistical comparisons for the Czech Republic, if we compare average income and prices of flats on the market, are, let me say, alarming. This is confirmed by the fact that in the last third quarter, the prices of flats and houses in the Czech Republic increased by 55.4 % compared to the average of Europe since 2015. Real estates have been more expensive throughout the European Union only in Hungary, up to 80 percent there. In the European Union, prices rose by 27,6 % between 2015 and 2020, i.e. only at roughly half the rate compared to the development of the Czech Republic. No one can predict what the coroner or COVID-19 and the crisis will do about it. Thus, housing is a disproportionate burden especially for young people at the beginning of family life. And we know that these people, who are burdened with mortgages and other financial instruments, even give 30 percent of their family budget to replace or pay for housing. Let us remember that it is the availability of housing that interferes with another area of our lives. We're talking about our children's lives here, future generations. There is often talk of the state in which we leave our planet in the environment, and so on and so on, but let me think the same way about the availability of housing, which is not only in my opinion, but in my opinion the whole House, and I think it is very important. Let me conclude with three comments, which are very important for this proposal to pass through the House. I cannot imagine cooperation with the Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová and the Ministry for Regional Development. I note that this amendment has been introduced or tabled as a parliamentary proposal, with the fact that, of course, we must coordinate these matters legislatively and communicatively, and in terms of the possibility of preparing a comprehensive amendment, which is already being prepared today, and we are intensively in negotiations with the Minister's knowledge and with her deputy, so that we can solve, say, the minor problems that the debate and response to the debate, which, of course, will be in the committees or will be able to respond to it. I want to thank you for your cooperation so far, and I look forward to working with another one, which I think will be very fair. I know that for many of you, the law is certainly not perfect, and we will look for ways that there are a number of errors and a number of failures and a number of problems that the law will cause especially in the control mechanisms. But it's on the table. We have it on the table, it is certainly a debate on the fact that we can finally talk about something, and there is an ambition here, and I think for all of us, still manage until the end of this parliamentary term to be adopted, so that we can allow citizens of the Czech Republic, and above all the people I have talked about, to reach out or be able to obtain, as I have already said, affordable housing. Well, last but not least, it's my request. Allow me, on behalf of myself, to ask you, on behalf of the petitioners of my social democracy club, but also as mayor of the city, to allow this House press 952 to be second reading into committees. The reason is because you will give us mayors the opportunity, the option of another housing option, except that, of course, there are grant titles within the Ministry for Regional Development - I must not forget this - but the development projects that we have in the municipalities, but also the possibility of another, third segment that would be useful on the market in my opinion. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the discussion that will certainly come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u3	Thank you. I just got a report from the vice president of the TOP 09 Club, probably with priority rights, Dominik Feri. We don't have an open debate, nothing, so... okay, okay, okay. So you're logged in here for a point of fact, so I'm going to delete you and mark you in the general debate. Now here's an apology. Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman apologizes for work reasons. Now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, it should be Ivan Bartoš, but here again we have a request to change the rapporteur at first reading. So I will call the Members to the Chamber because we will vote on this. So who agrees that Ivan Bartoš's first-reading rapporteur will be an MP ondOndřej Profant? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 188. Announced 101 Members, for 85, against none. The motion was accepted. So now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Ondřej Profant, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u4	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me briefly to introduce the amendment to the Act on Publicly Beneficial Housing Companies, which has just been introduced to you by the petitioner. It is a bill tabled by a group of Members, represented by Mr Jan Birke, who the Government discussed and assessed at its meeting on 17 August 2020 and expressed a negative opinion on it. The bill was delivered to the House on 10. 7. 2020, the Organising Committee then at its meeting on 3. 9. Recommends to the House of Resolution 309, to discuss the proposal and proposes the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee. The proposal is intended to improve the situation on the housing market, which, as the explanatory memorandum states, is unbalanced. The proposer states that, in order to improve the situation of housing availability, it is necessary to regulate the market in a natural market conformal way, namely by investing on the supply side. The petitioner presented his proposal in detail, and I will just follow up by introducing in the amendment the creation of a publicly beneficial housing company which would be granted to certain legal persons. However, there is no explanation in the explanatory memorandum on how the housing market will specifically address this proposal, which, of course, is something that we can probably work out on the committee, so we will see how the House stands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u5	I am opening a general debate in which Mr Dominik Feri is first signed up and then Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, first of all, I would like to point out in front of the parentheses that our parliamentary club considers housing issues essential, we want to address the lack of flats and rising prices, especially in cities, but we do not think that this draft is any good instrument for achieving this. Together with other political parties from the opposition, we believe that the key to this within the Chamber of Deputies is, in particular, the regulation of the government of the construction law presented, that is, to speed up the construction process, simply to provide builders with some tool to implement the construction as quickly as possible to become a minister and not to slow down the construction process and management as long as possible. We think that's an appropriate tool, we're participating in it. By chance, tomorrow we will be presenting the final version of our comprehensive amendment. This means that construction is the way to ensure affordable housing. We believe that much stronger instruments are meant to have self-government, for example, because they are the ones that reach agreement in the territory and achieve the development of the territory. So I'm blaming it in front of a parentheses so that I may not be accused that by not supporting this draft, I don't really want them to have Čech, and young Čech, available ownership housing. [[10.00 hours]] However, I must oppose the way in which this proposal enters into the consistency of private law. And I would even assume that, as far as housing issues are concerned, this proposal should have a constitutional-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The problem is already under the provisions of the second paragraph of the subject design, namely that the publicly beneficial housing company can be exclusively corporations, the association, the limited liability company, the joint stock company, the cooperative, the housing cooperative, the social cooperative. This is a fundamental conceptual change and a fundamental introduction of confusion into private law. Because if the Commercial Corporations Act is being amended, then the corporation - it's called "Companies and Cooperatives" - and all of a sudden we're saying that the company will be a cooperative, social cooperative, housing cooperative or association. That means we have one word for a company that, in the sense of corporations, is used for a company of personal and a company of capital. And all of a sudden, we say that the squad is actually a company, too. It's not a small thing, it's no legal formalism. That's something that when we're all here together, I believe we want to simplify the rule of law here, and suddenly we create a law that says that society means something other than society within the meaning of the Commercial Corporations Act. I leave a party to society within the meaning of the Civil Code, a contract for society, so that is really a fundamental systemic change, which should be based more on government lines, not on MPs, and which simply cannot be supported. Let us discuss the purpose that I think is attainable in a different way. But to say that what applies here since the recodification in the Commercial Corporations Act is going to change a few months before the end of the parliamentary term, we're still redoing the ZOK, which has been subjected to several, two major amendments lately, so I don't think it's reasonable. And it's really nothing that's really a detail. That's a fundamental change, that's a fundamental change. We can't just say that society is a cooperative. This cannot be said to create another parallel system in private law. I would only consider this reasonable if it were after some very long professional academic debate that we really need this. That this private law of ours absolutely, we can't do without it. But there wasn't a debate, and I don't think it's gonna happen. So that the petitioners don't suspect me of wanting to deal with this draft by proposing a rejection, I suggest we work together. Maybe this could be corrected in some way. I am concerned that we will no longer be able to do this in the committees, because that is something that is intersecting with the whole proposal. So I suggest we get this press back to work, and I will also make a proposal in case this proposal does not pass, so that this press is also assigned to the constitutionally-legal committee. The Public Administration Committee actually deals with these housing issues from the point of view of the merit, in terms of purpose, i.e. achieving or securing, increasing the provision of housing needs, but not from the point of view of substantive law. Not from the point of view of legislation, consistency with the codes. That's what we're dealing with in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. That's where it should be ordered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u7	I have, of course, noted your proposal. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary. So, with the right of priority, Minister Klára Dostálová, then Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and in the end, Mr Jan Birke is interested in speaking for the plaintiff. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say that during the opening speech of the speaker, texting began to come to me, that the Member expressed himself in the spirit that he was not going to cooperate with the Minister. I don't think it was meant to be that way, because we talked about it before, so I'd just like to confirm to everyone on the microphone that we've confirmed that without cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development, it's not really going to work. [[Response to response.]] Thank you for the confirmation. I would just like to express myself here, because the government, and it has already been said here by the rapporteur, has adopted a negative opinion on this proposal. It defined about 15 problem points. However, by discussing these matters with the promoter, I take your statement very seriously that a comprehensive amendment will be prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development. The point is, the Ministry is working on a law on affordable housing itself. It is indeed a very demanding legislative process, because there is a really wide range of partners involved, and discussing individual things is very legislatively difficult. I realize what time we are at, that we are just before the elections, and that, indeed, many parties in the Chamber of Deputies have long been calling for the Housing Act, the available housing. It's just a legal standard for living as such. But you really need to take the law out of the grunt, look at it, add a lot of things, such as definitions in particular. These are precisely the moments that are lacking in legislative anchoring in the area of housing policy. We lack the definition of social housing, affordable housing, what is a social apartment, what is available apartment, what is inadequate housing, definition of low income, definition of rent, etc. etc. This means that this law really needs to be completed. We would like to be involved in a comprehensive amendment, because the Ministry has many partners, including tripartite for housing, where both apartment owners and the Association of Rent Housing etc. are, of course. There are many players who have the space to express themselves. And by being so far away in the law on available housing, because we wanted to bring it to the government in April of this year, it would be really very good if we wanted to make it through this parliamentary term, join forces here and use the draft that is now on the table. I would like to underline Mr Feri's words that the basis is the acceleration of construction. Thank you very much for this, but we will speed up construction, but it is really necessary for the authorities to anchor some things in the area of housing policy in the law, so that we can move forward in these matters. The Ministry is going the way of grant programs, but we also run into the problems of self-government if they need to prepare a so-called social lease agreement. Of course, they need to be able to get into the apartment at all, if, of course, they are apartments intended for social purposes, such as for some troubled residents. So there are a lot of problems in housing policy. I'm not proposing a motion to dismiss on behalf of the government. On the other hand, I think that the petitioner should consider extending the time limit for committee discussions so that we can actually handle it and work through it well and we do not have to be ashamed of the form that the House will approve. On the contrary, it could be for the benefit of housing policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u9	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear, then Mr Petr Dolínek will be prepared and Mr Jan Birke is interested in speaking. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u10	Thank you, Mr President, my colleagues, my dear government, the available housing is something that we strive for two, maybe three decades in order for it to actually apply in the Czech Republic and actually work. And we all know that, especially in the case of young families, but also seniors, that is far from true. Here I refer to the petitioner Jan Birke, as he described the hard data as we stand. One reason is this: in the past decades, we have paid more attention to property housing and less attention to rental or cooperative housing. The purpose of this law is to support modern cooperative housing and actually rental housing so that housing is actually available primarily towards young families with children and towards seniors. It is simply a chance for housing not to be like a right on paper, but for everyone to enjoy it and for reasonable money to have decent and dignified housing. This is the main objective of this proposal. [[10.10 hours]] The second objective is to support the acceleration of the construction of such flats in the Czech Republic overall. The third objective, no less important, is that we make it through this term of office, and I would like to ask you all to do so. As has already been said here, time is on our heels, and I think we have worked a lot in affordable housing for example over the last five years, but we still haven't seen the law, we just haven't managed to make it. It's not that simple. The interests, as described here by the Minister, but also by the petitioner Jan Birk, are different and it is not easy to combine them. But I believe that our House, this House, can approve the new rules and that we will really enforce the available housing. As I say, first of all, it's a chance for young families with children and seniors. The last legal comment on what Dominik Feri said, by your means, is important not to paint the devil on the wall, but also to look at how in Austria, Germany or France it is to promote cooperative housing, but also rental housing, that these are not dirty words. Unlike us, these countries have no experience with socialism, so I assure you that cooperative housing is not a dirty socialist word, it is not impossible. On the contrary, it is part of the right of these modern countries, and I think that if we have great success and experience before 1989 with a large number of flats under cooperative law and cooperativeism that allowed people to live, and a huge number of people could live, so that we can follow up on this practice, modernise these institutes and, following the model of those Western countries around us, support cooperative housing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u11	I will now ask for Mr Petr Dolínek's speech and Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond briefly to Mr Feri. I do not think that the law on which I have been actively cooperating for over a year or over a year and a half, which is a construction law, is a panacea, and logically it cannot be a panacea, because while we are speeding up construction, but at least in the conditions of the largest cities such as Prague, Ostrava, Brno and Plzeň, even speeding up construction, even if more flats were put on the market, it does not mean that we will reduce the housing price in those cities, it only means that we will stop the steep growth, that we will slow it down, but the price of real estate and housing will continue to grow further - the acquisition of housing. And what good is it to a person who doesn't have the money and can't legally earn it in his work - look at how much some people have their income - it's not legal in their case to make money to even be worth 44.5 million in Prague, so what good is it - and it's almost impossible for you to get it, we're really talking about some studio, but in other cities it might be possible that we'll be able to speed up construction - if they can't even get a fast-built apartment. That's why we come up with tools and institutes that look for ways to try to do it. I understand that if I look above all at the true political spectrum, everyone can tell me five, ten, twelve reservations, some will be ideological, some may be factual, so I thank Mr Ferim that from that part of the ideological went into the factual one, and I understand that we need to look for such a link in order for the law to respect the rule of law as well as in terms and in other matters. However, let's make it possible here, as the Minister has also indicated in front of the petitioners, to have a discussion and let's try to find this tool after 30 years, because there are really dozens of percent of the population, people who can't provide for themselves or their children, and we want to find them a way. And let's look at it from the point of view of not only the big cities. Even in central municipalities, even in district cities, it is sometimes very complicated to secure housing, and I think that these instruments could lead to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u13	I will now ask for a speech from Mrs Helena Válková and Mr Jan Birke will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I was initially considering whether this would be a factual point, but to avoid being too nervous, I also took more space, but I will not be holding you back for long, probably from the final discussion at first reading. I just want to support this, even though this proposal shows significant legislative shortcomings and there will be a lot, a lot of work to do. That's what I know when I was redoing the government's proposal on what it took to do, and working with the relevant resort is alpha and omega, which is why I was glad that we all heard it on the microphone. On the other hand, as the Human Rights Commissioner in charge of this agenda, I was anxious to see how time was running out and not much going on. So, a little last-minute, but thank God for that. I think there's something else I can do. We will also give priority to this in our human rights agenda, and I ask you not only to keep us informed, but I also have capable lawyers who, if they listen to it, maybe goose bumps, but we should all, I will use that folk expression now, put our hands to work if we want to prove that we can still manage or move this available housing. I think it's high time we all know that. It's a shame we couldn't process the proposal in terms that would be more reasonable, but when I counted it, like with all the laws, the proposals that now and at the next meeting in February will go through the first reading have a chance. The others, I fear, are already too time-sensitive in view of the forthcoming elections. So support and offer of cooperation for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u15	As the last one so far, I have an envoy from the Member and also from the plaintiff of Jan Birke. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u16	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. With all humility, I don't know if I'm going to have the final word, but at the same time, I'm going to take advantage of it as a translator, let's say, a description of the debate. First of all, thank you so much for her. Thank you for all the words and knowing that they realize - and I also said it in my opening speech - that I know - that the novel is not perfect. That has to be said, it has been made clear here. Once again, I want to underline what I may not have said clearly through the drape: I cannot imagine at all that we will not be working with Minister Dostálová and the Ministry of Regional Development on this amendment. It's almost impossible. In short and well, it is almost unthinkable to go separately by a parliamentary proposal, because without legislation from the point of view of the Ministry, precisely because they absorb or respectively have a whole range of strong housing players in their portfolio, I would say simply so, so, thanks to this, this amendment simply needs to be discussed, discussed and created, say, a comprehensive amendment, perhaps even a comprehensive amendment from the point of view of law - that is, what my previous speaker, dear colleague, professor, spoke about, or what Mr Feri, spoke about through you, Mr Vice-President. I agree, I understand and do not defend myself, and I say with all humility that I would even like this press to be discussed not by a guarantee, but certainly by the Committee on Constitutional and Law or by a constitutionally-legal committee. This I think is very important because he is to some extent the legal norm that changes the status quo. On the other hand, I think that the Guarantee Committee should be the Gesture Committee, which is under the Ministry of Regional Development, which is public administration and regional development, but this is not my role, it is the role of all of us Members. I just wanted to say that I can't imagine it without the cooperation. To extend, not extend - I did not dare to shorten those deadlines, Madam Secretary, by your means, Mr President, because it is precisely because I know that there will be so much time for the job, so I will not allow myself to shorten it to 30 days or less. I think we can do this. But, of course, I can be wrong, and then maybe I'll ask for an extension in the form of, say, some process when it gets to second reading, which I promise you, and I think it's gonna be some of our common practice. Construction law: I understand it, but I do not want to comment on it now, because it is a completely different standard with which, I think, the Minister is employed in an incredible way and it is a complicated set that will, of course, still have some of his duels that are expected in the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.20 hours]] Just let me conclude by saying: I also agreed with the rapporteur, because I know that Prague is trying, the City Council of Prague is trying to start a similar system now, i.e. nonprofit housing, or, say, the nonprofit sector, and I know that the City Council of Prague, and I also want to mention Brno. Brno has already built the first apartments according to this system. So I just want to say that it's not a question - they hooked it up to the current cooperative housing system, which means it's something else, I'm pointing out, but it's not impossible. So, in short, and well, it's a completely different system. Not according to this law, but a similar system that they'd like to run. I really want to ask you to let this go to second reading, and the reason is the one we all seem to agree on. It needs to be on the table, start discussing it. We all admit that this is not going to be fun, but it is necessary to have it on the table so that we can try to do something about it and try, as has been said by my previous speakers, to manage it during this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your support for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u17	In the general debate, therefore, the rapporteur, Ondřej Profant, you will still have room for both final words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u18	Thank you for the floor. I just want the opinion of the pirate party to be very short in the debate. The Pirate Party supports affordable housing and a comprehensive change in what has been happening for 30 years now, because we see it as very bad. Living for a lot of people isn't available and it's a big load. It's a big one-off capital, and now the system isn't working well. That is why we have been to Brno for these changes, so we are discussing changes in Prague, when capital is being broken down, so that even less wealthy people can afford to live in. However, despite all this, we identify with the reservations that Mr Feri has made here, but we optimistically believe that this can be corrected on the committee. We will be happy to discuss this with the Minister. We are a very active committee. I think that we have presented some very consensual proposals, some of the most consensual laws that have been passed by this House, so I believe that we will negotiate on the committee something that will help citizens and there will be no legislative errors. But, of course, it's gonna be a lot of work. Yes, we're taking it to the construction law. I hope we can do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u19	I'll see if there's any interest in the performance. Yes, a factual point - Mr Dominik Feri. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm more skeptical if we can fix it on the committees. But if there's a consensus that we want to have a draft here and that we want to try to redo it somehow, I would like to ask you, given that you're going through these provisions, the vast majority of these things concern issues of purely legal law, that is, rent issues, issues of transfer of rights, issues of ZOK regulation and other issues. These are purely legal questions. That's what I think would look more like a constitutionally-legal committee. That means, I propose a constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. I will do this again, if necessary, and I also suggest that we extend the deadline by 20 days, because it will not be easy at all. It's breaking in, it's really breaking into some concept of private law, and that's certainly not something we should be doing in a hurry just because the end of the term is coming up. Even if the deadline is extended by 20 days, it can theoretically be adjusted, but the Committee of Constitutional Law should be a committee of guarantee from that title that, in fact, most of this is legislation, a new form of some company, some new sui generis type of business corporation or corporation. This means that it is more a constitutionally legal matter than a matter for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u21	There. I'll ask you later, Mr. Ambassador, when I ask if anyone's suggesting the commandment to the guarantee committee, so that you tell it to the microphone after I ask. Yes, please, Mrs Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Beautiful morning. For the ODS club, I propose a motion to dismiss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u23	So I'll look around to see if anyone's still in the debate. I see no one in the debate, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The plaintiff already told me he didn't. Apparently, neither does the rapporteur. So we're going to vote. Mr rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? You don't. So I'll call the Members to the Chamber. We have two suggestions here. Firstly, we will vote on the proposal by Mr Dominik Feri, who proposes to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, and then there is Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal for ODS, which proposes to reject the proposal. So I'm gonna unsubscribe you all. Log in again with your voting cards. We are the first to vote on the proposal by Dominik Feri, which proposes to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of returning the motion? Who opposes the return of the petition to the plaintiff? In the vote number 189, 89 Members voted in favour of 19, against 28. The motion to return was rejected. Now here's another suggestion. It's a proposal by Jana Černochová on behalf of the ODS, and it's a motion to reject the proposal. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? In the vote number 190, 89 Members voted in favour of 11, against 37. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[Member Feri reporting.]] So please, if you can still tell us on the microphone, your proposal. I, of course, noted it, but let's get it all recorded. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u24	Thank you. I propose a constitutional-legal committee as a guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u25	I wonder if there's another suggestion. I see it as a counterproposal, so we will proceed to the vote. So how first we will vote on Mr Feri's counter-proposal, who agrees to have the proposal put forward to discuss the committee constitutionally-legally as a committee of guarantee. It's a counterproposal. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 191, 91 Members registered, for 20, against 25. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the proposal, who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 192, 91 Members registered, for 86, against 2. The motion was accepted. And I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? Yes, Mr. Marek Výborný is reporting for the floor. Please, you have the floor. And so is Mrs Aulická. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to order the constitutionally-legal committee to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u27	And now, Mrs Hana Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u28	Hello, I would like to ask for the commandment of the Social Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u29	Okay. And Mr. Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u30	Committee of Economics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u31	Is there another suggestion? I don't see another suggestion. We'll vote one step at a time. First of all, we have here Mr Marek Výborný's proposal that the next committee to discuss this proposal should be the constitutionally-legal committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 193, 92 Members registered, for 87, against no one. I note that this proposal has been directed to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as another committee. The second proposal was the proposal by Mrs Aulická to order this proposal as another committee also to the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 194, 91 Members signed in for 79, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered as another committee to discuss the Committee on Social Policy. As the last proposal, I have here Mr Feri's proposal that this proposal be ordered as the next one for discussion by the Economic Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 195, 92 Members registered, for 25, against 21, the proposal was rejected. I hereby conclude the first reading of this proposal and pass the proceedings on to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-005-287.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue our negotiations. Let us be clear about one small thing that was part of the debate. I ask Mr Jan Birke whether the proposal to extend the time limit was part of his proposal or whether it was just an option. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] So it was just a possibility. So there was no positive suggestion. Just so that, before we start the next point, we have all the things that have been said here. Let's continue with point number
