ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u1	526. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 19 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have 16 more responses to the written interpelations to discuss today. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And so we will now proceed to the answers to each of the interpelations. The first interview is an interview with the Prime Minister, who is excused. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. The hearing was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. A moment ago I read his apology from the morning meeting, it is not possible to discuss this interpelation and will be discussed in the next possible term. Another interpelation is also for the Prime Minister. Again, he responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's intervention on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 709. The discussion was suspended by the House until the presence of the Prime Minister. So it is not possible to continue, the obstacle has not fallen, we will deal with it next time. The next interview is an interview with the Prime Minister. Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interview on the lack of basic and kindergarten capacity. Interpelation is presented with a reply as a House press of 897. This hearing was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. It is not possible to discuss it at this time. The next in line is an interview with Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation with regard to the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1015. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. We cannot continue the debate. Another intervention is the interpelation of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on compensation to the regions. Interpelation is presented with a reply as House press 1017. Even this discussion has been suspended, it is not possible to continue at this time. Next is Mr Jakub Janda's interpellation to the Prime Minister on the promotion of the sport area in the time of the coronavirus crisis. Interpelation is presented with a reply as House Press 1098. The hearing was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. It is Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová on the rules for the payment of the contribution in the Antivirus programme. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1107. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Minister was present. Madam Secretary is also excused. I read the apology. Yes, that's right, she's excused from the morning meeting. We can't continue to discuss this. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mr Marek Novák's interpellation with regard to the undersized OSPOD. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1115. The debate has been adjourned to the presence of the Minister, it is not possible to continue at this time. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jan Lipavský interpellation on the planned journey by economic advisor to the President of the Republic, Martin Nejedlý, to Moscow. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1124. The discussion of this reply was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Pavel Žáček's interpelation on the protection of classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation shall be submitted in conjunction with the reply as printing of 1132. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, it is not possible to continue. Mrs Olga Richterová interpolated the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová on work rehabilitation. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1135. This discussion has also been suspended until the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. The following is an interview with the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, who responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpelation with regard to the support of the Czech aviation defence industry. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1140. The hearing was suspended until the Minister was present. Another interpelation concerns the Minister of Defence. Minister Lubomír Metnar responded to Mr Jan Skopeček's interview on the tender for the post of Director of the Army Sports Centre DUKLA. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1154. The discussion has also been suspended until the Minister of Defence is present, and he cannot discuss it now. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to the interview of Jan Farský on the demolition of railway buildings in the Králové Hradec Region. Interpelation is presented as a House press of 1187. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Minister was present. The Minister is also excused today for work reasons. It is not possible to continue the discussion. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová responded to Mr Marian Jurečka's interview on the convicted lobbyist Roman Janoušek. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1188. The discussion of this response has been suspended until the Minister is present, it is not possible to continue the debate. There. That was a solo on my part. [[The President shall consult with the PS Office's staff member.]] [[9.10 hours]] I was also warned that I lost my mind in the heat, and I didn't open one of the interpelations. There is still an interview for Prime Minister Andrej Babiš from Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík on 2 000 billion money from our citizens from lithium. Interpelation together with the response shall be presented as printing of 770. This hearing was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. It is not possible to continue the debate. I thank all of you present. There was such an agreement that we would continue with the approved points, but a short break will be announced. I think 10 minutes might be appropriate. We would continue at 9.21 according to the approved agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we should now focus on points 13, print 603, 12, print 390, 60, print 965, 18, print 944, and 524, information on the situation in the steel industry. We would then continue to discuss other points according to the approved program, the laws - second reading. In the afternoon, we'd be dealing with point 527, which is oral questioning. Since points 16, 17, 38, 58, 103 and 327 have been discussed at the extraordinary 101st meeting yesterday, they will no longer be part of the approved programme, you can cross them out, this is not to be voted on. I have some additional apologies. Minister Petr Arenberger apologizes today because of urgent work issues. The Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes for urgent work on Thursdays from 9 to 13 o'clock. Now there's room for any appearances on the agenda. Mr Luzar - I ask everyone present for peace, take your seats, we will hear a motion to change the programme. Mr Vice-President, you're given priority rights, I presume, so I'm not going to measure your time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to speak with the request for a priori of the current programme - point 524, concerning Liberty Ostrava. Allow me, however, to make a small comment, which is repeated on the third Thursday. Although we have Minister Brabec here now, I thank him for that, but neither of the points we have on the agenda today concerns the environment, and I would therefore welcome the fact that the responsible Resort Ministers, whom they should be present in discussing these, were here. I don't know how we're supposed to start points, whether I assign or not, to the Minister of Industry and Trade or social matters, health and other when the Minister is not responsible here. Are we here, as Members, to discuss and discuss the proposals? I don't know if Minister Brabec is in charge of taking these social points or responding to them, but I'm afraid he isn't. I'm justifiably afraid. So, Mr President, on behalf of the KSČM club, I will allow myself to protest against the government's approach to the House's Thursday negotiations, and I firmly believe that other political clubs will join, because I consider this House to be undignified, that we cannot even discuss the draft laws that we have firmly classified, and we are actually here in our own way a hostage to the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u4	Thank you. So the proposal for a pre-election didn't come up, it was just a reminder. Mr. Benešík on the agenda. Mr. Benešík has priority today. It is always good to tell the President before the proceedings begin.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u5	I'm sorry, I have the exact same reminder. Those points are firmly classified. We had a European committee this morning to which the Prime Minister comes from the Rules of Procedure, because of course he was not before the European Council, he was not even attached, so if this Chamber of Deputies, which is supposed to deal with matters in this difficult situation for the Czech Republic, we need an adequate government representation here. And I think everyone knows that there are interpelations on Thursdays or that there are fixed points, so I'm gonna adjust the program accordingly. Nobody requires the entire government to sit here, but those ministers who have those points that are firmly included in the gesture, maybe they'll make time for the Chamber of Deputies! To elected representatives of the people! Those are important and serious things. So I think it's really undignified when it's a fixed point, when the minister knows for a long time not to come to the government's meeting when it's his job. At the Chamber of Deputies meeting, I apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u6	With priority rights, Mr Cernohorský. I assume he's also privileged? [[Agreed.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u7	I don't think I'm gonna repeat myself after the rounds, so I'm gonna join Mr. Luzar's protest. But I'd like to suggest a possible change in the program. I was going to ask for item 391, House press 956, a conflict of interest, if this third reading could be classified as the already firmly ranked points of those third readings that are tomorrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u8	Thank you. Mrs Válková on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have the right to a meeting, just to calm some of my colleagues down. For example, the first point firmly placed, as you know, I am still talking about it, the six hundred-three, compensation for illegal sterilizations, so the Minister also knows very well about it, and indeed the entire government, because these are the international commitments that the Czech government will break in the long term-- excuse me, the Czech Republic is in violation, and we want to fix it. It's consent across the political spectrum. So here in this case - I don't call myself the others - I think with forgiveness it doesn't really matter what minister, who is responsible for the government, and therefore the Czech Republic, is missing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u10	Madam, do you have a proposal for the show? Please, only to speak on the agenda of the meeting in this section, if you do not have priority rights, I cannot give you the floor. Member Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u11	Thank you. I would very much like it not to slide, as my colleague here, through you, says to something that she knows, but she can talk. But if he doesn't have an official mandate to that point, of course, it's nice that he's here, but to that point, even if he may know something about him, he can't talk about it, because he's not authorized by the government to represent the interests of the government against this law, and that's why we can't even discuss it. I would therefore like, Mr President, to tell us what the next step will be. Does that mean the ministers are coming? Are you able to secure up-to-date ministers to discuss individual points? And then can we take a break until they arrive? Or should we end this morning's meeting by not having responsible ministers here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u12	I'll answer the question. Of course, we will proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we will open the item gradually and see if the conditions for discussion are set. As an example, I can mention paragraph 13, it is a parliamentary proposal. The Rules of Procedure do not provide for an obligation which should probably be as resorcing as possible in order to be present here. He is obliged to be present and present when he is a plaintiff, so we, for example, can discuss that point 13. If we have the plaintiffs, we have the rapporteurs, and at least there is a member of the government, so we can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u13	Excellent. Thank you, Mr President, but, of course, I would also like to ask what is going on with the other ministers, because we have now been dealing with other points in the oath of negotiation, we have been considering the inclusion or assignment of the current points, and we have no one to turn to. So I would repeat here what I called for last Thursday and Thursday before last, so that you would actually come in contact with the Prime Minister and allow the Members to speak to the various ministers they consider important to be here on Thursday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u14	Thank you. I last spoke to the Prime Minister about this in person yesterday when he was here in the House. President Gazdík with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u15	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. It is not often that I agree with my colleague Luzar, but he is 100% right here. And I would really like to ask the President to appeal to the Prime Minister and stop disrespecting the dignity of the House's actions. We've been going through a lot lately. But the fact that ministers have really stopped coming here, the fact that the Minister of the Environment is here to deal with sterilization, with all due respect for the problem, is something that shouldn't be. And please, let us not disrespect the House's meeting, and I ask the President to bring this to the attention of the Prime Minister in a strong way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-001-526.u16	Thank you. So if there's no one on the agenda, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[Gong.]] There was only one proposal, namely Vice-President Černohorský, to point 391, print 956 - Amendment to the Conflict of Interest Act, to include on Friday the already firmly ranked points in the third reading. The firm is only cursarbeit at the moment, so it would follow the cursarbeit. I've started the vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number 319, 75 Members signed in, for 14, against 1. The motion was not accepted. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. Opening point number
