ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u1	485. Government information on vaccination strategy, available vaccines and their adequacy We interrupted the discussion of this point on Wednesday 3 March at the 87th meeting at 6 p.m. when another point was firmly placed. I ask that the Minister of Health Jan Blatný and the rapporteur of this item, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, take a seat at the rapporteur's table for the government. So we will continue with the interrupted general debate that they have signed up for... Lady Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who performed with the opinion of the KSČM club, was suspended and Mr Marian Jurečka and Mrs Jana Černochová were signed in with priority rights. I ask Mrs Aulická Jírovcová to take the floor in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the debate has been interrupted, I would like to start a little bit from the beginning. I won't be long, because we didn't have much time to debate or read what we had prepared for our contributions. I would like to point out that we have really initiated a discussion of this point under the KSČM to discuss the current situation here openly and to get answers to our questions, which we simply do not get. For other reasons of work today, I could not be present at the emergency meeting of the Health Committee, which took place at lunch break, in any case I think that the information that was provided there and which my colleagues received will be heard from the Minister of Health. However, I do not think that there have been answers to those questions that we want to hear, for example, and that is why we will be happy to discuss them. Maybe we don't just want to talk about the current measures. We are wondering what the evaluation will be like next week, although, as I have watched Mr. Dušek, he also speaks of the fact that we are actually at a turning point and could shine on better times, with the fact that the measures in place have somehow impressed. I myself wonder how after those three weeks, or next week, our government will tell us whether we will end the so-called lockdown, or whether we will, or whether the government will continue to want to continue the closure that the Czech Republic is in today. We all see what the situation really is. It is very difficult, it is a difficult time for all citizens of the Czech Republic, and above all it is a difficult time for our health professionals. I think, of course, there are other areas that I should name, but I really want to focus on the paramedics today, the medical staff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u3	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask for peace in the Chamber because there's disproportionate noise. Thank you very much. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u4	Thank you, Mr President. We have a lot of doctors here in the House, doctors, so I'm sorry, gender balance, but of course, a lot of nurses, and I think that maybe we should let them talk first of all because they know the situation best, and I think that - whether we like it or not - I'm not entirely sure whether we can and whether we are doing it or the Health Department, whether they can present the current situation and the situation. I'm talking to paramedics in our Ústí Region. We're trying to bring them some spirit because they don't have it. Nurses, doctors, doctors literally fall, I should say on the mouth, but they literally fall on the mouth. And also that the government has just said that we're going to give our paramedics some funding -- I think that's CZK 75,000 where they're serving in covido patients -- I don't think that's what they want to hear. There should also be a change in the payment order, because hospitals are really calling for a lack of money, and I have not heard from the Minister of Health all the time. We talked about this on several occasions on the Health Committee, and I think that colleagues from YES asked the Minister, too, but I feel that this part of the minister, although it was promised that it would be addressed, does not represent much. I'm saying this because some kind of stressful situation, I think, has really landed on almost every citizen. People here are dying in large numbers. They're still pretty good in the morning, and they're just not by noon. It's tragic stuff and stuff. We are supposed to talk about vaccinations today, about testing, and I ask - they are no longer just people of old or older, unfortunately they are also people of my age or older, but it affects the lives of all people - why does Minister Blatnýý not allow and does not want in the Czech Republic and still media present that he does not really want to allow for the use of vaccines elsewhere in the world in the Czech Republic? I am very sorry, but I must say that so-called - and I may apologize to the Minister directly - that so-called "frog on the spring" is how I feel. You know, I've just been informed that in some of the vaccination centers of our region - I'm not saying that it's a rule everywhere - but that even cops have to be somewhere, because our citizens are literally fighting to get the vaccine. Is that what we really wanted? The fear and at the same time say, "We'll get you the vaccines, but we don't have them. We've got the vans promised, but they've robbed us again, and they're only sending us half again?! Is that what we really want? We're gonna open up the system for you, but the system won't actually allow you, or can you register, and we're waiting for weeks, a month before the person is even called to go into vaccination because we don't have the vaccine, the vaccine? Or people like each other take advice: the vaccine is not in one hospital, the van is in the other city. Cancel registration here, go there. What do we make of these people? To sit on computers, to scare the whole family just because our government can't secure what it promised? At the same time, he stands there and says: ano, she is a different vaccine elsewhere in the world, but we will not allow it, because we do not want us to go around the EMA, and at the same time we are not able to make SÚKL manage all of this and say: Yes, the vaccine is, of course, in line with the conditions that are safe for our citizens and we can buy in large doses to ensure that our people are inoculated as soon as possible. I think this is irresponsible, and Minister Blatný should draw some consequences from this. I mean, personal. [[18.10 hours]] I therefore ask how many doses of these three vaccines, namely AstraZeneca, Moderna and Pfizer, will be sent to the Czech Republic in April, May and June. I'm asking on purpose because I don't trust these numbers anymore, and I don't think that since we're all sitting here, nobody trusts them. Why did the Office of the Government ask for an assessment of Sputnik vaccine, and the Ministry of Health didn't? Once again, only the Ministry of Health can grant an exception. Why is Minister Blatný still refusing to assess this vaccine to the Czech Republic if it is not approved by the EMA? Yes, last time he said there were other legislative issues, that is, the reimbursement of this vaccine and so on. But aren't we making adjustments here in a legislative emergency that apply immediately? Why don't you just do it? And I would also like to ask what is the current state of the inoculation of our employees in education. I think that the lockdown and the closure of kindergartens and schools actually made room for these employees to inoculate, and in the next few weeks - and I think we have a point of bringing the kids back to school tomorrow, and we want to talk about how the government wants to prepare for the children to go back to school, because I think that's beyond everything, but of course we'll talk about it tomorrow. Other things: field of testing. We have known since November last year and we ask that it be tested in bulk, and above all in companies. But what does the government do? He promises to do it, he will, and now we have until 15. 3. which, in fact, we have in a few moments the obligation for everyone to protest in companies over 50 employees. [[with laughter]] You know, maybe I've just come across this one idea - not the idea, a situation where one company that does services isn't going to name what it's not, because it officially doesn't have 50 employees. But if you look at the pages, it has about 850 people. And you know how he does it? Because he's got a broker. I have to say that these people, or at all, you can't accommodate this area, but these people do business services, corporate services, and if that company, where they do certain things, services, work, doesn't require them to be tested, it just doesn't have to do it, or it doesn't have to do it until later. At the same time, you give 60 kroner per test, which is four per month. Great. At the same time, the Ministry of Health says that an antigen test should be performed every three days. So the company has a test one week instead of doubleting it, that means really testing at least once as much. You have on your website a list - which cannot be opened, apparently something broke - of the suppliers of these tests, and we also know that during the announcement of this self-testing and these possibilities, antigen tests increased from some 120, 130 crowns to much higher amounts. And you, Minister, know very well - and we have talked about this several times - that the emergency situation allows you to regulate certain prices, certain products. I don't think that if you did that, that respirators, baby drapes - by the way, VAT is not forgiven for baby drapes - and that you would regulate the cost of tests or self-tests of antigens, then who are you going to help? Especially citizens of the Czech Republic. And until then - and it's only going to take you two weeks - you haven't done anything. I am very sorry that the government of this Republic has stopped almost the entire economy and, at the same time, allows only certain areas to make money on citizens of the Czech Republic. We reject this for KSČM and demand that the government finally stand up to helping people and not just telling them orders and restrictions, but allowing them a little bit of the situation that is. People here just go to the pulp, they don't have the finances, they're sick of it, and the government's in significant restrictions. Nobody's asking us to relax and do other big things. On the other hand, you have to realize that citizens are only in outrageous restrictions for a year, they are all tired and to a greater extent just boycotting, and I don't blame them anymore, because this closure, too, has a significant impact on police officers, on soldiers who help and, above all, on health personnel. I would also like to know if Mr. Hamáček knows how those boys are standing there - they must be there for tens of hours - if anyone will take care of them, if anyone will give them anything to eat and other matters belonging to it. I think that if they could, in their own way, some would really give up, because in such a struggle, and on the other hand, the way their own minister and the government treat them, it's no wonder. So, Minister, we will be happy if you can answer some of the questions and, of course, we will certainly discuss further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u5	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Lipavský, Mr Tomáš Martínek, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to strongly warn against the call that is once being made by Mr Volný over there, and now we are hearing it from the Communist Party, and that is the attempt to administer medical material, medicines that have not been properly certified, which do not have all the stamps, stumped, and, in principle, we do not know what is in those ampoules, who made it, how it was produced. The European Union, the Czech Republic, has its own legal order. We should, above all, take care of compliance with this rule of law and, of course, part of this rule of law is also responsible for what substances are administered to patients, and that is why we have the certification, which is why we have the SÚKL, which is why we have EMA at European level. Any efforts to circumvent these institutions are very dangerous and I would like to warn against them. Of course, two of these substances have very strong lobbying from the countries from which they come, but we measure the same metro as the substances from the United States of America, and the same metro was measured by European, domestic producers, who of course had to go through the procedure, have now passed, so we can serve them. So here I would really like to give one more strong warning about a substance that somebody says is working on, but it's not able to prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u7	Thank you. The next will be Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I would like to ask, through the President's previous speaker, about the Sputnik V obsession, which the Russian citizens do not want to apply in the majority, why should it be the only Russian producer who, due to its production capacities, is unable to supply any relevant numbers of this vaccine at present? Why aren't you pushing for a vaccine from Novavax, which has been in large volumes in production in the Czech Republic since April? It is already 30 days longer in the EMA approval process. So why isn't the pressure on your part needed to speed up the approval of this vaccine, which will be produced in the Czech Republic, to employ Czech citizens and to support the Czech economy? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u9	Mr Ondřej Benešík, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to say that the certification, control and testing of drugs, the vaccines, is not here to bully or rule someone out. This is simply about the safety, health and perhaps the lives of citizens. This means, tested, tested vaccine by standard route, whatever its name is, and this applies to a Russian manufacturer or Russian vaccine as well as to an American or Indian vaccine. This is supposed to protect our citizens and their health. That's all it is. I'm just asking myself two questions, why the Russian party hasn't already asked for verification and certification. I have reported that it may have finally happened today after those long weeks and perhaps months of talking about it, but unlike other producers, it did not do so and dragged it out. That is the first question, therefore, why it took so long for them to decide on the process that both European and American or other producers of similar vaccines had to go through. The second thing is why the Russian side offers it everywhere in a situation where it is far from inoculated by its own population and is very, very badly, in terms of vaccination.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u11	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Zdeněk Podal, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u12	Dear colleagues of the Pirate Party, who have now appeared before me in response to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, I understand your russophobia and that they are making earplugs for you, but try to read again what my colleague has said. She didn't say we wanted a Russian vaccine called Sputnik. In without any certification, but we ask why the Minister and possibly the SÚKL do nothing like this so that the SÚKL can do what it has to do. And you're still waiting and still making excuses for the EMA. That's beautiful, you're making excuses, you're making excuses, you're making excuses, but there's just a part of society - and you're not denying it - that just wants the Russian vaccine, Sputnik would get vaccinated. And it's across - it's not just that they're voters of KSČM, SPD or anyone else. It's just a certain generation of people and a certain group of people who say, "We would take this Sputnik and get vaccinated because we trust it. If you're reading some media that talks about inoculation in Russia 2 to 3 percent and that they're not even able to produce, then explain to me how they already have - and now I don't know, my colleague Kobza here has been giving some information - I don't know, maybe 20, maybe 30 states with which they have contracts and the volume of supplies in over billions. So if it's such a bad vaccine, then why are these people getting vaccinated? We're just saying, and I think my colleague said it, and if you don't believe it, read it again, that we want this government to finally start doing something, including the Minister, and if it doesn't, then just let them go away and leave someone else there who wants to work for the government. Including the Minister, including the Director of the SÚKL, and I think the President has made that clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u13	I have four factual points here. Mr Zdeněk Podal will be the first to speak, Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I may be very simplified, but every eight minutes one person dies here. We've seen it before in the House. We can't avoid it here either, so let's start talking about when there'll finally be enough vaccines for all those who want to take their own shots. I'm not a doctor, and I'm not going to deal with this question. I don't care what vaccine, but mostly to help me. And that's how the vast majority of people think today, over 60 percent, and the only task of the government is - no one can solve it - no matter how many vaccines there are, as promised, let them inoculate, because really every eight minutes - I repeat - one person dies. And we can't afford that. There aren't that many of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u15	Thank you. Mr Svoboda, Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u16	Thank you. I almost don't want to talk when I hear this nonsense. I've lived on medicine my whole life, and the rules for what we're giving patients are very strict for people not to die, for people to heal, and when they heal to be healthy and not to harm themselves with some other organs. That's absolutely essential, there's no exception to that. By the way, SÚKL can't make that exception, he doesn't have the right. He could do the general pardon, Mr. Minister, but I firmly believe he won't, because anyone who's a doctor and knows what's going on can't make such an exception. I'm convinced that the vaccine may be good, but if we don't know and we don't have it confirmed, we can't make that exception. That's just the law that applies. They're valid in medicine, and as a doctor, I wouldn't give anyone a cure that would be allowed out for such an exception. We do this in exceptional cases when it comes to solving a specific tumor, a specific disease, when the drug is already in some phase of testing, that we accept it as an experimental drug. This is possible to take part in an action that is part of some research task. But at this point, we're dealing with an epidemic. Guys, in an epidemic, we need to administer this drug to a huge number of people. At the moment when one of the people who dies after an unregistered vaccine is given, the doctor who gave it will not get rid of the courts until death and will eventually be punished because he has given something that did not have the approval to have it. I don't want to talk about it any more just because I guarantee you this thing is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u17	Thank you. Mr Martínek will be next, Mr Jurečka and Mr Lipavský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u18	Thank you. I'll just add that I hope Sputnik too V obtains EMA certification, according to the European Commission asked for certification six days ago. I also hope that Novavax will get it, who asked 35 days ago for the start of certification, which will be produced in the Czech Republic, and it will be so clear if they obtain certification that the vaccine is safe and effective. Just for the record, it took Pfizer/BioNTech 76 days to get certification, Modern 51 days, AstraZeneca 120 days, Johnson & Johnson is at this time in the process 99 days, CureVac 26 days. That's just for the record. And what may not fall here and what will also be important for many citizens: if then, for example, the EMA certification would not be obtained, there would be a risk - because from what we hear, it is possible that a lot of countries will require vaccination or an up-to-date test for their entry into the country, and this means that vaccination will only be required by a vaccine that has been certified by the EMA, so that if Sputnik does not subsequently obtain certification because they may not meet the safety criteria or effectiveness, so citizens would have to document the current test and could not simply travel to other EU countries, as some countries are planning. So even from this point of view, it is more certain for citizens, of course, not to lose this advantage, which the certified vaccines can then offer them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u19	Thank you. Mr. Marian Jurečka. Mr Jan Lipavský, all factual remarks, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u20	Thank you. When I listen to this, I have to say - professional things, please, colleagues, let's leave the experts. There are several of our colleagues, who are doctors, who appeared a moment ago, perhaps a colleague of Svoboda and his performance clearly had a professional quality. I ask the previous speakers here, through the President, for example, my colleague Aulická, when you have such strong appeals to the Minister, you will bear the responsibility? Are you going to bear some responsibility to those people who may have some other complications? I can have a lot of reservations about this government's progress in the pandemic, a lot of reservations about the procedure within the Ministry of Health, but in this matter, the Minister has the highest responsibility here, and neither the President nor the Prime Minister is here to try to urge the Minister to do anything beyond all standard mechanisms and to comply with only because there is some interest in Russia or China. If Mr. President means it, he's here exactly the same way for an exception to the Johnson vaccine. Why isn't he doing that? Isn't that strange? [[18.30 hours]] So please, let's leave those people with full responsibility to do their job well, because they'll take responsibility even if they're not in office. But those of you here today attacking the Minister - paradoxically, I'm going to stand up for him here at this moment - so you're not going to bear the responsibility. And I think that what the President has done today, which is completely outside the competence of the Constitution asking for some personal change in the Prime Minister's government, is completely outside the normal reality of a functioning democratic responsible country, where every member of the government bears full responsibility for his ministry, not the Prime Minister or the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u21	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský, Mr Ondřej Benešík will be prepared with factual remarks. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u22	Thank you for the floor. It is worth noting to my predecessor that President Zeman has also commented on the address of the director of the SÚKL, which is completely out of the office's competence. This is purely a matter of government or the Ministry of Health. And, of course, we have the information. There is information that Russian and Chinese hackers attacked the EMA, and they managed to get some information, which was then made public in a modified form. It is an example of the hybrid activity, the break-up of society and again the attacks on the rule of law and the legal procedures that we should pamper as much as possible here in Europe and the Czech Republic, and not crashing them by the fact that a group of residents would like to take the vaccine because they probably learned how great and wonderful it is on some disinformation server. We will want to look at this topic further in the House, but that is probably no longer a question here in plenary. Anyway, it's the question of how many people actually believe vaccines, how many people are willing to get vaccinated and what myths are spreading in society about these matters. Here the state should play a positive role through some information campaign. It is not entirely pleasant to hear that it is constantly delayed, but we can talk about this another time. The key is for the state and its competent authorities to be able to guarantee the citizens of the Czech Republic what they get for the substance, and not that someone will say it's great and it works. It can't work like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u23	Thank you. Mr. Ondřej Benešík. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip and Member Zdeněk Ondráček will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd repeat what I said here, it's just the safety of our people, that's all. Everyone has the same options, and I'm just asking why Sputnik didn't ask? And if the information is confirmed and he's already asked for certification, why didn't he do it before? Johnson & Johnson will probably get permission this week, maybe tomorrow. The advantage of this vaccine is that one dose is sufficient. So it seems to me a little bit like a race with time for some Sputnik to get here, but it's the Russian party's fault that she didn't comply with the same criteria and procedures that they're forced by legislation to protect the health of those users, which are our citizens, the others. So once again, Johnson & Johnson as the next option will probably be available this week, or he'll get a warrant. And as far as I know, the production capacities of those approved vaccines have been increased so much that it is very realistic that from April, the European Union states will receive up to 100 million vaccines a month, starting on April. This is information from the European Commission. So if this really happens, you do the math. The population of the European Union is 450 million people. If that happens, we're gonna have a problem with how to inject it quickly again, not so much with vaccine delivery. But we also have quite an interesting amount of vaccines in stock. So it's not a question of political, it's a question of the safety of our people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u25	Thank you. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and Mr David Kasal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u26	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I quote probably from some strange server - according to my colleague Lipavský: from Czech Wikipedia. Maybe a European registration. On 20 January 2021, it was informed that on 16 January an application for the marketing authorisation of Sputnik V in the European Union was submitted to the European Medicines Agency - EMA. So if this is some kind of weird server, then deal with Wikipedia. Please don't lie here, don't lie here, or tell me which pharmaceutical company is paying you. I don't care if it's Sputnik, if it's Astrazeneca or Moderna, I really don't care. There's one thing that bothers me, and I'm asking the Minister of Health. Where is the Government's resolution that the deadline for vaccination of Czech society has changed? The minister, when we started this point, said it would be in September. But in the government's resolution delivered to us, it will end by 30. 6. That's what I want to know. Who cares if we're talking about security? Yes, we talk about people's lives, we talk about people's lives. And please, let's drop the lies. I really don't like it, I really don't like it. Everyone will read this. Please, do you know what you look like in front of the citizens of the Czech Republic when you talk like that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u27	Next will be Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr David Kasal, Mr Tomáš Martínek and Mr Jan Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u28	Thank you. He's not here right now, Mr. Benešík, but I have to say, I enjoy it. The reports from the European Commission say we will. Yes, the same European Commission also said that we would have several million vaccines here by now. Well, where were we? Of course, we don't have anything, because every week we hear them cut us short, cut us short, cut us short. Mr. Docent Svoboda, whom I very much appreciate and have spoken a few times, is talking about some experimental medicine. So let's talk about the possibility of experimental medicine, the experimental vaccination. All I'm saying is that there's a group of residents here who are just interested, and you're playing it like they can't until then. So I'm going to ask how many people died today after administration or vaccination of Pfizer and other substances. When I look from my county, from my particular district, I'm afraid there's been talk that in Vrchlabí, in that one - unfortunately - retirement home, a large number of people died just after vaccination, after the first dose. So I'm asking if it's true or not. So we're asking how many people have died since the super tested international vaccines that are here and that we're giving here. What's the number? We asked, so let them tell us. So tell us, 5 people died in the Czech Republic, 10 people, 50 people. Give us the number. Of course, you're scaring us that hundreds and thousands of people will die here if they get vaccinated with a Russian or Chinese vaccine. So you'd rather let us die out just so we can't get vaccinated. Great. A colleague tells you how many people die or how often people die. You can still see that they're dying. But you're just gonna say, in your arrogance, we're not gonna let, we're not gonna let, we're not gonna let you, you're gonna die. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u29	Thank you. The Minister of Health will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just gonna answer it, I've already said it, I'm only gonna answer it again. Eight people died in the Czech Republic some time after the vaccine was administered, and it has not been shown to be directly related. So I just want to make it very clear that it wouldn't be right or true to say that someone died here because of the administration of vaccines that are approved in the European Union. Even the 8 deaths are closely monitored and investigated, and there was no evidence of such effect. And indeed, although it is written on Wikipedia, the official request for the European Medicines Agency of the Russian Federation was made last week. That's information not from Wikipedia, but from inside the EMA. I also wish this vaccine to be approved by the EMA. But only to put it all in the same wound. We don't have any security anywhere, and no one can prove that Sputnik suddenly delivered millions of doses to everyone. The difference is not that the Russian vaccine should save us. The Russian vaccine won't save any lives that wouldn't save us any other vaccines. That's not true, please. That's not true, please. [[18.40 hours]] And from this point of view, I am still insisting, and it is absolutely nothing against the Russian Federation or against any country, that it must be treated equally. I will insist as long as I am a minister, I will repeat this as long as I am a minister, and I think that this is right, because it is my duty to treat everything the same and to follow the so-called good clinical practice and regulations that are valid in the field of medicine in the Czech Republic and in the European Union. I don't have much to add to this, and it's no malice, please, it's an attempt to be solid with all the citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u31	Thank you, and the next will be done with a factual remark by Mr David Kasal, Mr Tomáš Martínek, Member Jan Lipavskýý and Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague, Mr Benešík, through Mr President, but also in general. On the one hand, we're criticized here when I take it as a coalition, how vaccinations were handled. I just want to say that vaccination or even ordering substances was planned in April, from whom it will be taken, in what amount, when the substances have not yet been approved. Of course, every research and every trial has gotten complicated in some way. This is where the times that took the firm's approval were said. But it worries me when I hear it, although it's already approved vaccines, that AstraZeneca will reduce deliveries by 90 million, Johnson & Johnson, yes, one dose, but it's supposed to reduce doses by 50 million. That was in public data. Well, for me, if I'm gonna be a complete realist, I, as a doctor, need some kind of vaccine. In a number of cases, those pharmaceutical companies want us to, and it's in the recommendation, off-label. Some things we have to give as doctors off-label, that means give it even if it is not approved. We have to make our own decisions. This, of course, does not apply to vaccines, they have to go through the approval procedure, but on the other hand, why the approval procedure was not done separately and it was said: Yes, there is no documentation and it will be resolved. No one here wants an unapproved vaccine, but we have a responsibility to get the vaccines and inoculate people. Originally, a million doses were due in February, 200,000 in January. They didn't come because it's short, and there's a assumption that it could still be. Then we need to look for resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u33	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mr Jan Lipavský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u34	Thank you. I only have to respond briefly to Mr. Vice President Filip. I understand his digital literacy isn't too high, but for explanation. Wikipedia is a website where anyone who wants to write can write. Yes, there are some checks that somebody can delete it and so on, but it's just a summary of the resources taken over, there's no original source right on that page. Today, the European Commission has published an official statement saying that the Sputnik V process was launched at the EMA six days ago, with the EMA, which actually approves the vaccines, not just some EMA that has a similar name, but it is not the agency that is supposed to approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u35	The next will be Mr Jan Lipavský and Mrs Pekarová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u36	Thank you for the floor. I have been appointed one of the previous speakers, so I would like to be heard on the screen record that I am not paid by any pharmaceutical company, I am not paid by any company at all, and I ask myself the rhetorical question of whether my previous speaker, Mr. First Vice-President of the House, could also speak on a microphone with a clear conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u37	Mrs Pekarová, Mr Třešňák will be ready. I will ask you to address yourself through me and not to go into the personal plane unnecessarily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u38	I am going to do so by your means, Mr Vice-President, to comrades Ondráček and Filip, because I have to define myself against the fact that those who most say that others are lying here are the ones who are the ones who have most lies out of their mouths. It never came from any of us here - and I want to stand up for colleagues from other parties - that we would perhaps warn against the fact that if there is no vaccine from any country that has a vaccine but is not yet approved, then more people will die from it. No one here said they were going to die from the vaccine. So please don't take any of these shortcuts, but the demagogy and lies you're using here. And to Vice-President Filip, through the President. I feel like it's a little "I'm judging you" if you're accusing someone of being paid to be someone's financially motivated to defend a principle here. If you do this on the grounds that rubles don't stink or I don't know how it works for you, then do so, but don't blame yourself without anybody else's evidence, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u39	Mr. Petr Třešňák, Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u40	Have a good night. I would also like to respond to Vice-President Filip, through you, Mr Vice-President, and a little bit of President Pekarová has taken the words from my mouth, because I wanted to say exactly the same thing. Please sweep yourselves before your own threshold, because with you, the Communist Party, "I judge you by myself." And I could remind you of some of the changelings in the health committee without accusing anyone who almost suggests that, for example, in the abolition of the market shares of pharmaceutical companies. Or I could go back 11 years to the past, when there were industrial provocateurs who caught your own MPs. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u41	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u42	I dare to respond to everyone. Mr Martínek: Mr Martínek, through Mr President, Vice-President of the House may be digitally illiterate, you are merely illiterate. My colleague Lipavský: yes, if you do it for free, what you do, or just how you go to various trainings or drive or fly to different trainings, that's your business. Do it to yourself. If that's your inner conviction, of course it is. Mrs Pekarová: I will not comment on you, because I would not like to comment on a woman in some unkind way. Just if somebody's lying, then maybe you're the one around here who's putting... I wasn't talking about being vaccinated and dying. I said there's a group of people here asking for vaccination. The state, this government, the incompetent government is unable to deliver, unfortunately, in that volume. But it is not just the government, it is simply that the European Commission is cutting off our vaccines, and that Europe. So this is the problem here, and there's a certain part of the population that says, we want to get vaccinated, we have confidence in vaccines other than the ones that are here. And we say: do everything for it at national level, let it be an SÚKL, with the contribution of the Minister, of course, and let us say: Yes, we are able to manage ourselves, as Hungary has done, as Austria may have done, as other states can. And I'm saying, if you don't want to deal with it, just say, "Yes, we're not gonna get you vaccinated and we're gonna let you die." That's what I said. So don't twist what's been said here, or I'll have to say something I'd hate to say on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u43	Vojtěch Filip, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, will be prepared by Mr Vyzula, President Marian Jurečka and Mr Minister and then Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u44	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not care what anyone thinks of my digital education. I think I know what Wikipedia is, and I note that I have also checked the information, and I know that the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, is based in Amsterdam. Maybe you don't all know where they're based. It's not in Brussels, it's in Amsterdam. And I didn't make up that January 29th, not that I only read it on Wikipedia, but it's official. The fact that EMA started dealing with this six days ago is a question of Europe's commercial practices. Just knowing that, I'm not gonna shut it down here. I can swear on oath that I'm not in any conflict of interest, that I'm not cooperating with any pharmaceutical company, or I wouldn't cooperate, because it's not my area of expertise. [[18.50 hours]] And so, like I said, I've been a fisherman since I was eight years old when we were discussing Bečva here, and I reported that I'm a fisherman, so maybe whoever knows me knows that I'm always telling the truth about these things. Somebody doesn't like it, so they're just gonna attack me with awkward comments. But that's everyone's business. Because I read in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, The Lancet, as a British newspaper, that there is more than 90 percent efficiency of the Sputnik. 48 states of the world registered Sputnik. But it's not about Sputnik, it's about me again that I just want enough vaccines to come true in June. And you won't, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u45	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Vyzula, Minister Blatný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Let's not make this political, please. The situation is this: the whole problem is that people are hungry and bread is not enough. But we're not gonna make bread out of clay to feed them, that's understandable. Let's leave it to the authorities who understand. SÚKL has his people and will try to do what he can. It's not just the safety we've been talking about. It's also about efficiency. Do we know there's a vaccine in that bottle? Something's coming from abroad, and we're just supposed to believe it? We just have to prove that this is really the vaccine! Imagine if I made some cocktail, I'd call it a Vyzulův cocktail, and I'd tell you, it's an active covid substance, take it! And you're gonna believe that? Probably not. So please, let's really leave it to the structures that understand it. SÚKL, however, has one problem, and that is that in order to be able to evaluate such a matter, it needs a rather demanding, sophisticated team of people who can handle it, and he has it, but not to the extent that he can do it quickly. So then maybe it's all taking so long. Otherwise, let each one be measured by the same subway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u47	Thank you. Minister Blatný, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Just because this has been mentioned here, I will say that I have also repeatedly discussed this issue with all European ambassadors in the Czech Republic and with European Health Ministers. I can say that, apart from Hungary, which bought the vaccine, and Slovakia, where it got into the country in an entirely unusual way and led to almost a government crisis - and we certainly do not want that here - no other country is officially interested in buying this vaccine. So it's just Austria and so on, none of these countries have shown this interest. And then I will just point out that, according to the legislation in force, only the European Medicines Agency can approve the vaccine within the European Union. What national agencies can do is give an opinion on this. Indeed, the SÚKL would have to issue an opinion, but it is not an approval that is an opinion that the Minister of Health would have to grant a temporary exemption. And I'm not gonna do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u49	Thank you. Mr. Válek MP. Mr. Jurečka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u50	Thank you, Mr President. The joy of that rare moment when the opposition agrees with the coalition, both ministers and Members, is always my pleasure. The moment has now come, that is to say, I continue with what he has said, through Mr President, Professor Vyzula and what he has said, through Mr President, Mr Minister and, respectively, Mr Docent Blatný. Then I'd like to point out one more thing about the vaccine. We've adopted some kind of law here, and the law says which vaccines can be paid for. I mean, if it's really meant that we're gonna use another vaccine, which I'm not defending at all, then we need to amend the law, we need to approve it so that the vaccine is covered, so that it's covered by what's going on with the other vaccines. Then he'll probably have to approve the Senate, sign the President, which I'm sure he'll be happy and quick. And I'm sure it'll be good if there's another vaccine that's standard approved by EMU, just because I have no idea how to do it so that we don't have to do it again next year and in the next one again. That means the more high-quality vaccines there will be on the market, the better. As far as some quick solution is concerned in the coming weeks or two weeks, I can't imagine it, even if we sat down in a tupole, flew to Russia, loaded it up and brought it here, these people will have to pay for it again. I don't know how you're gonna convince those doctors to inoculate it because they're gonna have a big problem using something that's not approved. Let's talk facts! We have orders and we have confirmation that they will be delivered, over 20 million doses in the second quarter and third quarter. I don't have a problem with the lack of vaccines, but I'm afraid they're gonna be inoculated and enough of those interested in vaccinations. That's my problem, let's deal with it! Not if there's not enough vaccines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u51	Thank you. Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Hrnčíř will prepare and then Minister Blatný will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u52	Thank you. I don't know how to say this anymore, so we can move forward in the debate to the practical aspects of the course of vaccination. Comrades, don't be silly! Comrades, you hear here from the capacities that are here in the House, whether they are from among the opposition, and the coalition, that I simply - I loved it because of the professor, the analogy - you can't make bread out of the clay! Leave those things to the experts, don't interfere with them! I would be much more interested in practical things for the Minister. How will the vaccination strategy be followed in the case of medical and social students who serve today? When we received the suggestion that they were also waiting to be included in the vaccination. Maybe that's what I'm interested in. I am interested in the procedure in terms of competition for possible distribution of other suppliers of possible vaccines - it has already been discussed here today - which are on the verge of becoming registered. Is this dealt with on time, or is it going to wait two weeks again? Those are things I'm practically interested in. I wonder: is there going to be a systematic information campaign for citizens in this country from the point of view of vaccination? Or did it end up trying a few youtubers at the government's office? Those are the important things I would like to hear to get to the number 70% of the population's inoculation, if that's still true, this number is some kind of ideal that we'd like to approach. Let's talk about these things! I think the Minister has made his position clear, and I thank him for that, in this case I really appreciate him for being able to stand up for this, and he can say that to the Prime Minister. Because unfortunately, we would have been far better off somewhere else and far better off if the Prime Minister hadn't chatted from his position to the expertise and work of his ministers in the last five months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u53	Mr Jan Hrnčíř, Minister Blatný will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I listen to this debate, it's completely absurd! We are the Parliament of the Czech Republic and we have a government and a minister here who says he is powerless! We have to wait for the approval of an institution from Brussels, and we cannot take care of our own citizens. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of December we were the ones who pointed out when the vaccine distribution law was being dealt with, that we cannot do without the European Union, that the law is written so that if we approve it, we will have to wait until we have left, when the crumbs fall out of Brussels, so that we can inoculate something here. Only the SPD club was the only one against it. Everyone voted for it. And now we're talking that we're helpless, and we're waiting to see if the European Union can get us some vaccine, make sure, and while we're watching people die here. People want to get vaccinated, they can't. The schools are closed because we can't inoculate the teachers, we don't have anything. This is a disaster. This is not the parliament of a sovereign state, this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u55	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Válek will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u56	Brothers of the People, don't be silly. You can't seriously mean that you will only leave because we are unable - or that the European Union is unable - to deliver vaccines to the Czech Republic by letting people die. Really, folk brothers, don't be silly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u57	Mr. Válek MP. Minister Blatný and Mr Marian Jurečka will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u58	I, through Mr President, believe that lying should also be intelligent. That's for both previous speakers. That is, if anyone says that the European Union is gonna give us something, sure, we can, if the SPD gets it through, if we want to fly a plane from Brno to Paris, blow off the corridors, get nothing called up and fly, done, after Bolshevik. I understand that. Salters who don't need to talk about anything, I get it. I want to make a deal. I want to follow the rules. If anyone doesn't want to, it's his problem. And how do you know, through Mr President, honourable Members, that the European Union has not delivered anything to us? That's the talk "one bitch said, the other one listened quietly" How do you know that? You saw the contracts? You know what we ordered? You know how many less vaccines we got than the contracts? If so, please say so on the microphone, we have ordered so many vaccines from the company and the company, and the European Union has supplied us with so much less. If you don't know the contracts and you don't know what's in them, then how do you know she's supplied us less?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u59	Minister Blatný with a point of fact, then President Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u60	Mr President, only very briefly on specific matters, because this has been discussed here. By the end of June, enough benefits will be delivered to the Czech Republic that we will be able to inoculate 6 million people with both doses. This means that when the adult population is somewhere around 8 million people, the 6 million people are more than the required 60 to 70 percent, or that corresponds to that, the estimates I was talking about depend on. And there was also a specific question asked about the distribution of another vaccine, which will be Johnson & Johnson. The distributor is written out, waiting only for the waiver of the appeal of the others, so it is written out and it is being worked on, as well as for the others that will gradually acquire EMA. The moment the Russian vaccine gets it, we'll do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u61	Thank you. Now, President Marian Jurečka, Mr Ondřej Benešík, will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u62	Thank you. As Minister for four years, I have experienced a lot of everyday things, when I did not agree with some of the things within the European Union, the European agenda, I dealt with them, I spoke against them at the Councils of EU Agriculture Ministers. But please, nicely, in the case of vaccines - and I say this especially for the public, who will follow us here, because we will never explain this to some colleagues - it is necessary to realise that the European Union has worked perfectly well and solidarityously here, because if there were a free competition of 27 countries that would buy a vaccine from manufacturers, then every judge will answer when it would come to the Czech Republic. What would be the price of the vaccines? And here, 27 states agreed to put together money a year ago, reach out to companies, pay them or prepaid them to do research on the vaccines, agree on the deliveries, and the deliveries began to be realized. The fact that some companies then had problems in the case of production and had to reduce or shorten some part of the supply, that happened, but if we went on our own, to the Czech Republic, there would be nothing here today except the Chinese and possibly Russian vaccine at this moment. So please remember that, and don't say any more of this nonsense that comes in handy, because it feels really good at first sight. And the fact that there's an EMA here is the same story as in many other important bodies that certify and monitor our quality in other cases, in food, in other types of goods, because we agreed on this together. It's not a dictation. I would ask that some sane Member, even for the YES movement, who is a member of the European Committee, may also be able to speak up and maybe he can say these things too. Because it bothers me that the government coalition I'm counting on with the communists is expressing itself in this way because it's not objective facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u63	Thank you. Mr. Ondřej Benešík. Mr. Roman Onderka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. There have been very strong words. I'm just asking, do I really ask, how do KDU-ČSL or folk people cause people to die of covid here? I really want to hear it. I understand we use exaggeration here sometimes, but accusing someone of the death of another is a really strong coffee. I'm begging myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u65	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, through you, Mr President, to colleague Válek. He may not be able to hear me right now because he has a very important discussion with a colleague of the SPD. But we've known each other a long time. I respect him very much as a doctor, even as a person. But, colleague, I don't need to see contracts to criticize the delivery of vaccines. It's enough to read public resources if they're a little serious. Among those, I count iToday. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] And I don't really care who owns it, by the way. Among others, which lists on its website the Czech ordered vaccines. So for your information: Pfizer - the number of doses of 4 million, which is 2 million vaccinated - should have been delivered by the end of December 2020. The first quarter of 2021 - Moderna, AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson and something else - and it was 1.9 million vaccines, 3 million vaccines, 2 million and 1 million vaccines. This means, from this point of view, we should have more than 2 million people vaccinated in the Czech Republic today. I don't blame the Minister, because no doubt the production was delayed, these deliveries were delayed. But I would very much like us to use these resources as well and say things to each other. I agree with my previous speakers, let's leave it to the doctors, let's leave it to the scientists, let's leave it to the people who are educated, who deal with it almost their whole lives, and let's put ourselves in their hands. I trust Czech doctors, I trust European doctors, and I hope that this will work out well. I just want to say to the Minister that logically, the states that produce the vaccine are trying to do it PR, starting with America, Johnson & Johnson... [[I'm sorry, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u67	Thank you. President Válek, with a factual remark, will respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u68	I, through Mr President to Mr Onderk, almost a relative, thank you if I say this well, Roman. The difference between us is that he uses iToday as a source of information, I use as a source of information what the vaccination coordinator said, and the person who has the contracts in hand, on the health subcommittee, what she said in the microphone, which is recorded. I consider that a valid source of information. Each of the Members shall have the opportunity to hear this. They'll find out exactly how many vaccines we ordered from which company, in which quarter, how many they're supposed to deliver, they can compare it to what was delivered, because the doctor - I thank her very much for that, the director - she took it apart very precisely, she said, explained. She even said who ever signed the contract. We need to thank the Minister. I'm not ashamed to thank him, even as an opposition MP, for ordering some of the vaccines. And there it was again. I think it was very precise, very precise. I don't know where the iToday journalists got the information or any other periodical. I also find myself in the newspaper based on what the weather will be like, because I consider some of the information there to be very solid. However, in this case, I consider the information that fell from the Ministry's staff on the subcommittee to be a source, and I recommend it to everyone. As for the vaccine Sputnik - and I would like to say this on the microphone, whoever it is that gives me from my colleagues - is not a poor vaccine, no one here has ever spit on the vaccine as a substance and a hat down in front of the professor who discovered the vaccine. We are merely talking about the fact that there is some standard procedure that we want to preserve in the interests of our patients, not in this vaccine, but in general in any medicine. And as I fight with this vaccine, I will fight with every medicine exactly the same, and always for the patients. Primo non nocere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u69	Thank you. Mr Roman Onderka will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u70	Thank you. For the second and last time today, through you, Mr President, to a colleague of Válek. It's very simple. It also states today that the Ministry of Health is the source, and I still believe in the Ministry of Health. So let's read good. I'm not gonna listen to the weather news because they're usually wrong, so we all have different access to it. We agree on one thing: any state that makes a vaccine will do PR with it. It's logical. If we're going to talk about Johnson & Johnson, I could say, yes, it's a one-time thing, but according to the material that we have from the United States, it's a maximum of 66% efficiency. I could say Sputnik V: Yes, it's a two-stage vaccination, but the maximum efficiency is up to 82 percent, and I could do PR here. I don't want to do this. I'm just saying, let's leave it to the doctors, let's leave it to the SÚKL, to the verification, and please, as quickly as possible, let's inoculate as many citizens of the Czech Republic as possible. Fear is spreading, and I fear that it can grow into really big problems that the Czech Republic and citizens will have. I'm talking about psychic matters and other follow-up things from the medical point of view. Please, let's not make this political. Let's help the government and the Ministry of Health get as many vaccines as possible in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u71	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, de facto comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u72	So let me tell you, I'm going to give you a procedural motion to interrupt this point around 7:30, or we can agree on when, but we'll let it go in general so far, I'll make a procedural proposal around 7:30. We promised, if you remember, that we would also save a little bit of the staff here, and I appreciate the work of the Chamber of Deputies staff, so I will make this procedural proposal around 7:30. Secure your colleagues so we can vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u73	Thank you. At this point, the motion did not come up, so we will not vote. It's the ones who have priority rights. There are several colleagues and colleagues who are enrolled: President Jurečka, Mrs Černochová, Minister Blatný and President Válek. In this order, they shall be signed up for debate in accordance with the previous management meeting. I'm just gonna ask if it's still on. Is President Jurečka interested in speaking in the debate? He doesn't. Mrs Černochová is not present at the moment. Minister Blatný is interested in speaking in the debate? Yes, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to try to move a little bit of the information that we've gathered here today. I've already said some of these things, but I'm gonna update them. I would like to tell you that at present 1 274 250 doses have been delivered to the Czech Republic and from that during yesterday it was 222 300. From this point of view, if we didn't count yesterday's veil because it couldn't have been vaccinated, then patients, people, citizens are given 90 percent of all vaccines that arrived in the Czech Republic when I count this yesterday's binding, then it's 71 percent. The number of people vaccinated continues to grow, for yesterday almost 35,000 were vaccinated, namely 34 973. Last week, that's the maximum of the previous Monday, it was 25,000, so it's obvious that there's a significant acceleration. There is also vaccination during weekends and we think that it is basically fulfilled, and I believe that this will continue, the intention of 35,000 administered doses a day, which we need during March. Then, in April, we should double- to double- and-half the number. By the way, it should be said that almost 80 percent of all people who registered at the age of 80 were vaccinated at least with the first dose and about 100,000 others outside of registration. This means that more than 50 per cent of the total population is vaccinated and about 80 per cent of those who wanted to be vaccinated. About 70 percent is also inoculated by all employees of bed care and rescue services, I mean emergency medical services. I repeat my appeal again, and this instruction went to all the vaccinated - not to keep the vaccines for the second dose, there will be enough. I'll get back to it. And it is, and so it is, because I was talking about 90 percent of the vaccine administered, to inoculate all the available doses between deliveries. I have already mentioned here the figures that for around 6 million people there will be doses by the end of June and by the end of August it will be 16 million doses for about 8.5 million people, which means that by the end of August all adult populations can be vaccinated. After all, there were also questions about the delivery in the coming months. More than 1,100,000 doses will come in March. It's about 200,000 more than it came in the first months from the beginning to the beginning of March. April - over 2 million doses. Then more than 2.5 million doses in May, over 3 million doses in June. Total orders, it was mentioned here: Pfizer originally 4 million, then ordered an additional 8 million, now we have ordered another 2.5 million doses, which means by the end of the year only 14.5 million doses will come from Pfizer. Modern in total 3,9 million, AstraZeneca 3 million, CureVac 1 million, which was the maximum orderable quantity. Novavax: 2.3 million - also maximum quantity is pre-ordered. Many of these vaccines, as my colleagues mentioned here, and thank them for that, I ordered or ordered with my colleagues. Other vaccines and their approval: Johnson & Johnson, EMA approval is expected during March. Like I said, we already have a competitor and a distributor for her. This company has primary commitments in the United States, so it is expected to be delivered to the Czech Republic or to the European Union in early April. CureVac is going through EMA approval. Expected deliveries are from 1 June. Novavax passes the EMA approval - the expected doses are in summer, not specified. We've had a long discussion here about vaccines that haven't been registered yet. I'm not going back to that now. Registration of group 70+ started 1. 3. Since then, some 330,000 people have been registered, and about a third of them already have a deadline. Now more than 10 per cent is inoculated, i.e. more than 10 per cent of all people 70 to 79 years of age have been vaccinated per week. It's about 12 percent of all registered. It is gratifying that, therefore, almost all people of this age are interested in vaccination. However, 42,000 other people at this age were vaccinated before registration was started, for example, because they were patients who were treated somewhere else and are being dispensed somewhere. With regard to pedagogical and non-teaching staff, children's groups, crèches, schools and the like, registration started on 27 February. By this point, 170 375 is registered. Just yesterday, another 11,000 were registered. Its term is almost 73,000, which means that teachers already have more than 40 percent of all who want to inoculate themselves. The vaccination is carried out in vaccination sites by a system that has been agreed with the Ministry of Education, where the code is always sent to the management of all establishments and then a gradual vaccination takes place. At first, older fellow educators, non-teachers, began to be vaccinated, and the younger ones gradually took place. [[19.20 hours]] One of the news that we were preparing for and which was also launched at 1. 3., is vaccination with general practitioners. It's a very important thing. Their aim at the moment is to inoculate primarily 80-year-olds and 70-year-olds who do not want or cannot inoculate in vaccination sites, and also here, I will return to this in a special commentary, have the opportunity to inoculate chronically ill patients. I'll get to it. They have it as simplified as possible, they don't have to worry about the so-called central registration system, but they do everything in the ISIN system, which they know very well, which they can work with, have been programmed for them by the ISIN OČKO model, which actually processes all of this, to ensure it. More than 56 percent of the practitioners' separate practice was involved and began to register people for vaccination. During the last week, practical doctors administered nearly 36,000 doses of vaccination and registered more than 262,000 people. It is true - and I would like to say it here - that practical doctors hold very well to the priority group, that is, it is not true that they would inoculate outside these priority groups, because 68 percent of those they have registered are seniors between 70 and 79 years of age, which are those who are now primarily vaccinated, about 20 percent are seniors over 80 years of age, which are those who, for some reason, could not or did not register for vaccination sites. Practical doctors currently have a clearly defined role in the system, which cannot be changed, but they will be allowed to inoculate even outside the central registration system and the ISIN OČKO system, but this is not possible yet, because with regard to the prioritization that is still going on, and also given that we must have absolutely accurate information about the storage economy of these vaccines, because so far we only have a defined number, we need to have this information. I thank all the practical doctors who are so responsible for this, and I know that this is not easy for them, I know that many of them are even older, and I greatly appreciate it. There is also a need for good cooperation within the regions. I see big differences there. In some regions of cooperation it is absolutely smooth, in some regions it is still looming, but I believe that it will settle everywhere in a very short time and it will work well. The other priority groups we are talking about now are critical infrastructure, which we work with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of the Interior, where there is agreement on the division of critical infrastructure on a sort of supercritical, which includes about 50,000 people for the whole state, and then another critical one. This is a very gradual start of supercritical infrastructure, but they will be vaccinated outside the classical vaccination site, because it is necessary to ensure that it does not stop the vaccination of the elderly. These are really very small numbers so far, and it will then be added wide as planned in the vaccination strategy to the next group that will be launched in April. The next priority group we talked about is chronic patients. For example, yesterday was also a meeting with the Council of Patients, which is at the Ministry of Health. There are currently three options for patients with chronic disease or for patients whose disease may worsen with covid for priority vaccination. For one thing, they are specialized centres such as IKEM and others, where patients are needed after organ transplants and other complex patients, then practical doctors, where this is determined as I said, that when a physician who knows this person best evaluates his combined risk as comparable or higher than those currently vaccinated, that is, to date 70 years or more, then he can decide on his priority vaccination. They are also other health care establishments where patients, such as haematooncological workplaces and others, are dispensed or monitored. Therefore, it is not the aim of a flat-rate vaccination of chronically ill patients, but we are trying to make sure that those who know their patients best, know everything about them and evaluate them as risky, can inoculate them now - and so they do. As far as the distribution of vaccines between individual regions is concerned, I would like to make it quite clear that there is nothing in warehouses, please, or in ministerial warehouses, because there are no ministerial warehouses. It's misinformation. Everything is divided into regions currently according to the 65+ key and the Ministry has a kind of iron supply in several hospitals in Prague and Brno, if you want, which then allows for the discovery of disharmonic supplies, or if there is an extreme demand in a region, etc. This week, for example, within the regions, 10 salaries have been redistributed to eliminate queues between regions and ensure a smooth vaccination. From this point of view, the overall supply to Prague or Brno may seem slightly larger, but it is not because we prefer someone in some way. We're really sticking to the key. Speaking of Prague, it is important to stress that Prague operates as such a logical mushroom for its surroundings, and for example only 70 percent of people who are vaccinated are really from Prague. On the contrary, for example, more than 7 percent of people vaccinated in the Central Bohemia Region are from regions other than Central Bohemia, so we also work with this here. I'm just telling you this as some kind of information that this data is all being collected, it's available. Specific distribution: Pfizer still goes to 31 vaccination sites, directly weighed by the manufacturer, and a selection of a future distributor is underway, capable of delivering up to 150 sites, thereby facilitating what the manufacturer himself provides in addition to the contract. Moderna - is competed distributor, which supplies to 200 health service providers, so far it has been used by 103 providers. AstraZeneca - a contract for delivery up to 7,400 providers of health services, which means that it allows for commitment, for example, directly to the practice doctors' offices. As far as the safety of vaccines is concerned, I have already mentioned it here, so let me repeat that really any possible adverse or side effects of any vaccine administration, this is the standard procedure that regulates the SÚKL, they are reported, they are very investigated and really were a low-level number of these cases. I will state here that 1 119 reports were received by 2 March at the number of doses administered on that date of more than 700,000 and therefore some suspected adverse reactions occurred at 0.15 percent. Then I'll mention that a few questions have been asked here, so at least in part, I'll allow myself to answer them. As far as hospital remuneration is concerned, so also after consulting the hospital directors - and we talk regularly - the insurance company guarantees that none of the hospitals will pay for the Corona epidemic, they have secured advances and are provided by a compensatory decree last year, and by planning a compensation decree for this year, these hospitals will be saturated. With regard to the remuneration of colleagues of health professionals, in addition to the remuneration that was for 2020 and will now be for 2021, colleagues in the health sector, whether non-medical or medical health professionals, are constantly receiving remunerations which are certainly not negligible. For the second half of last year, only on these rewards was paid within the health care facilities of about CZK 6.5 billion, which is outside the money that goes to the special rewards, so I think we are trying to take care of the health workers, we appreciate their work immensely and even the reward, actually the extraordinary one, except for the regular fees, almost double the funds in cooperation with the state budget and insurance companies, than it was last year. I've already commented on that. As far as testing is concerned, I think testing is an extremely good way to reduce the prevalence of disease in the population. We see very good results that testing in companies, which shows about 2% of positiveness, as is the case in public testing, gives us the chance to capture cases in businesses and in the state administration, and this needs to be clearly further supported. We will see over a short period of time, probably over the next week, as these measures have been fully reflected. [[19.30 hours]] And even to the end of the existing restrictions quoted here, I just want to say that at the moment these restrictions really need to be clear and strict, and it needs to be realized that the better they will be respected, the shorter the time they will take. Then we talked about a number of things that were related to specific unregistered vaccines, but there I think we have exhausted this area, so I am glad that at least this way I could provide you with updated information and, of course, I will do it repeatedly, whether according to your request or spontaneously. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u75	Yes, thank you, Minister. There will now be factual comments. First, Mr Martin Jiránek, then Mrs Věra Procházková, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u76	Hello, colleagues, as we agreed with our colleague Ondráček here, so I suppose he will propose a break, so I have five questions for the Minister, which I hope he will read later and answer them. Minister, if you want to increase the capacity of Ag testing due to the current overload, and if you want to, when? Secondly, how long is it planned to be tested in companies? Until May, June, July? That, too, would be a clue for companies to how much money to invest in and how to prepare for it. Third, whether, when and how do you plan to refine and speed up the route, because, according to the expected development of improving the situation and possible dispersal, this possible solution, i.e. control of the epidemic through testing and tracing, will await us in two months? Fourthly, with the related supplementary question, what amount of infected daily do you expect the tracing to work with maximum efficiency? And the fifth question, last one: In Germany, a project for annual vaccination is being prepared for about 30 million people before covid becomes seasonal flu from their point of view. Are we planning something like this for the next few years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u77	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, will be prepared with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u78	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would like to thank you for your patience, for the comprehensive information you gave us in a very rapid time. I'm sorry that you didn't have time because of the unnecessary mutual reproach of my colleagues so that you could give us even more information, but I really appreciate what you said here, it's enough for me, and I wanted to call on all my colleagues - and I hope that they listened honestly, what the minister here said - I wanted to invite them to cooperate with you so that they would stop boggling about unpleasant information and unpleasant things, but rather concentrate on helping, because today vaccination is not just a matter of ministry, just governments, today is vaccination of matters of self-government, practical doctors and each of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u79	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to take the liberty, by your means, of a colleague who spoke before me and of the Minister. I must say that I would not say that vaccination is now a matter of self-government and regions. I have to defend, I really defend the regions across, because they're ready to vaccinate, they really have the strategy, they just don't have the vaccines. It's just a bare thing. And another, to Minister Blatný: I would just like to ask how he spoke about patient organizations - I think we have all received e-mails to our email mails, where 42 patient organizations are talking about it, that unfortunately, as the Minister says here, there is a possibility precisely because of the underlying diseases, that younger patients than 70 may be vaccinated and allowed in the register, so both vaccination centres and the practical doctors of these patients do not have information that they could allow this vaccination. So I would just like to point out that the Minister has informed us of this possibility, at the same time as he tells us about the 42 patient organizations, unfortunately this information is not in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u81	Thank you. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u82	It's not even a factual point, I'm coming up with the procedural proposal I said 20, 25 minutes ago. [[The sound of the gong.]] In agreement with the Minister, in order to ensure his presence, because without him, of course, it would be meaningless, I suggest that we temporarily interrupt this point by Wednesday 24. 3. what is a variable week, at 17.00 hours. We're sure the Minister will be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u83	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal that we should vote on. In the meantime, I have already called in Members and Members to the Chamber. If anyone has a counterproposal or wants to make a vote... please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u84	Thank you for the floor. I think vaccination is very important, it is probably the most important thing that we can discuss in the Czech Republic at the moment, so I would like to propose a counter-proposal to interrupt it by Friday by 9:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u85	By 9:00 this Friday. Yes. Is the Minister applying for a counter-proposal? I'll give you my word to express yourself when we have to vote. So, please, briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u86	Just for a very short time. There's no way I want to underestimate this important thing, but I'm afraid I couldn't be here on Friday, so that's why I'd prefer the other part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-008-485.u87	Okay. However, the proposal has been made, so we will vote first on the counter-proposal. We will therefore vote on interrupting this point by Friday at 9:00. Are we ready for the vote? We are. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 224, 94 Members signed in, for 19, versus 10. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal to interrupt this item by Wednesday 24 March until 17.00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 225, 94 Members signed in for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. We interrupt the point until Wednesday 24. 3. 17.00 hours. At the same time I conclude today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, meet tomorrow at 9.00 at paragraph 486, Answers to written interpelations. Have a good evening.
