ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all to it. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card, which Mr Roman Bělor has already done, who will vote with card number 26. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 4th meeting on 1 December of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail the following day. Madam, gentlemen, I would like to ask you to relieve the noise in the room and to calm down. I was asked to speak with the President of the STAN Jan Farský Group, who would like to make his proposal. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 1 December this year at the age of 80, Petr Uhl, a politician, a journalist, a lifelong human rights fighter, a fighter against freedom, a fighter against totalitarianism, a charterist, left us. And I would ask you to remember him at the beginning of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to honor a minute's silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr President, and I will, of course, be happy to comply with this proposal. [[The present rose and a minute of silence honored the memory of Peter Uhl.]] Thank you. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting? I see no one with a proposal, so I will vote on the proposal of the verifiers of Mr Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura. I said, who's in? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 1 of the opened meeting 179 Members and Members were registered, for 172, against none. The motion was accepted. And I therefore note that we have appointed Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura as verifiers of the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that, by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Dražilová Lenka for health reasons, KaňkovskKaňkovský Vít until 14.30 for work reasons, Salvetr Rudolf for work reasons, Sládeček Karel for work reasons, Wenzl Milan for health reasons. The government's apologies for today's meeting are: Benešová Marie for work reasons, Kulhánek Jakub for work reasons, Toman Miroslav for work reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír for work reasons. He also apologizes to Minister Jana Maláčová, also for work reasons. We will now proceed to the agenda of the 4th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. First, let me introduce you to a proposal on which today's grémium has been agreed. The Grémium proposes to include a new item on the agenda, namely House document 139, Draft annual remuneration for the activities of members of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, in the News block, proposals and other points. That's all from my side of the Gremium. And I will now ask, Madam Members, that you also speak on the motion for a programme, and we have a number of applicants for the floor. First of all, President Tomio Okamura, who has three applications, and all three came first, so I will ask you, Mr President, to introduce them gradually. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, as a new special item in this meeting's agenda, I propose a point called Acceleration, inflation and the threat of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic. Anti-covoid restrictions have hastened and increased economic threats both in our country and in the world. Representatives of the Czech National Bank and other experts estimate inflation growth in January to be 7 percent. There is a crisis in agriculture, rising fuel prices, fertilisers and other products, which will be reflected in prices and subsequently sales. Already today, pigs farmers report that a third of them will go bankrupt next year. Inflation, of course, will crush the poorest, who live on flat-rate income, i.e. pensioners, low-income families with children and so on. Today, the number of people who are unable to pay off their liabilities is already growing, and it is not some gamblers or alcoholics, but it is people who work, but unfortunately they work for wages that have barely been enough to live a decent life before inflation. Speaking of life, the cost of living, which is already disproportionately high against the outside world, has increased dramatically this year. Food prices are also rising, not to mention energy. Here we have the European Union's crazy plan called Green Deal, approved last year and by the government of Andrej Babiš in Brussels, and the economic hell that will bring its applications. Yes, it is. Babišův's government first supports the European Union's plan Green Deal, the so-called Green Deal, and the allowance trading system, and without any regulatory instruments, will draconically make energy more expensive for our citizens, households and businesses. And only when the Polák swayed is Prime Minister Babiš making oral proclamations that don't solve anything anyway, and he's trying to get together at the last minute before Christmas for the House's special meeting tomorrow to cut the prices of energy VAT. The SPD will, of course, support any proposals that make people's energy cheaper, but those proposals that the government makes are not a systemic fundamental solution. Moreover, for example, a zero energy rate cannot be introduced under the new EU rules. The SPD movement has been the only party in the long term to draw attention to this situation. We have been saying for a long time that it is necessary to step out of the emission allowance trading system. The European Union is destroying our citizens' and our companies' wallets and throwing people into energy poverty. The upcoming garniture of the new government five-wheeler also has no solution to solve the upheaval. In the coalition agreement, he made a commitment, respectively, in the announced programming statement that came to the surface, to support Green Deal and the new ministers remain silent on the direct question. Even the candidate for the Environment Minister, Anna Hubáčková for KDU-ČSL, via facti continues to openly support the increase in energy. That's what we read, her statement. This is unacceptable to the SPD. The price of emission allowances climbed to more than 90 euros per tonne last week, while a year ago it cost 34 euros, i.e. about a third. In 2014, the emission allowance cost only 6 euros. The Polish Government is about to put forward a proposal on this matter for the immediate suspension of the European Union emissions trading system. If the European Union does not do so, Poland will request a withdrawal from the system. [[14.10 hours]] The EU emission allowance trading system is making energy prices substantially more expensive for all our citizens. Again, the SPD has been pushing for the Czech Republic to step out of the emission allowance trading system for a long time in order to prevent the increase in energy for our citizens. In any case, however, we must stand up to the crazy proposals from Brussels agreed by the government of Andrej Babiš for the approval of the emerging government five-calice, and we must decide what to do with it. I will mention just to the margins the last report of the Supreme Audit Office - SAO, which notes that the oil and petroleum products stocks held by the Treasury were below the required limit of 90 days from April 2017 to June, the so-called average daily net import, with sanctions on the part of the European Union at the risk of non-compliance. By the way, we have groceries in reserve for 1.3 days. I mention this because, in the event of a crisis, in the event of an emergency - and it doesn't matter whether natural or perhaps blackout - the state isn't ready at all. Our self-sufficiency is quite seriously and fundamentally insufficient in many respects. The head of the State Material Reserve Administration quite rightly states that this is a purely political problem, because only government politicians matter, what stocks we will have and what we will have. To define this correctly, it is up to politicians to determine how much we will be prepared for potential threats. That is why this topic belongs to the House, because the threats that are ahead of us are not only real - part of them will hit us - and it is just a question of how we will be prepared, how we will face them and whether we will face them after the crisis comes, or whether we will prepare for them in advance. For the above reasons, therefore, I propose, on behalf of the SPD, an extraordinary item on the agenda for this meeting called Acceleration, inflation and the threat of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic, because it is completely unbearable for many citizens and they no longer have the money to pay those overpriced bills. That is why I would like to discuss this here to stand up for the citizens - and the SPD is behind the citizens, behind the decent citizens - I would like to include this point as a) the first item in the Chamber of Deputies meeting. If this didn't work out, because I understand that the first four points are changes in the House's bodies, I would propose that as the fifth point of the meeting after these points. Thank you for your attention and I beg you to support this serious point, because if you want to address the price increase, if the rest of you - not just the SPD - want to address the price increase that concerns Czech citizens, and you want to help them, I beg you to vote in favour of this draft point, because otherwise we cannot discuss it here. There's only 20 of us in the SPD, we're in the minority here, we want to deal with it. Now it will be up to you whether or not you want to stand up for the citizens and deal with this, because the truth is that of the proclamation of the new government five-calice - we looked at what leaked from the upcoming government statement, and there is no solution to the price increase. So I don't know if the new five-calice government has a solution, or if they're afraid to say it -- that's one thing or another -- because you've been saying you've been ready to rule for a year now, so I'd expect it to be there right away and we'll be able to discuss it here. But it's obviously not like that. Prime Minister Petr Fiala laughs. We've known each other for four years, sitting next to each other. But I just don't think it's funny at all, because citizens are really desperate for overpriced prizes, and we're going to ask for a new government as soon as you get your trust from your own Members here so that these things can be resolved immediately. We have heard some alibi that Prime Minister Petr Fiala said it would be difficult and that it would not be possible to solve it right away. Well, he didn't suggest any solutions, although after a year you're wondering how ready you are to rule. That is why we want to propose that point to learn the solutions, because the Government of Andrej Babiš has already resigned from the solution, even though it could have stopped it during the last parliamentary term, when the Green Deal could have rejected the EU's Green Deal, but it nodded servilely. Now, of course, it's up to a new five-calice, and it doesn't offer any solutions, but citizens get bills every month. A month goes by again, you're not supposed to ask for trust until the second week of January. From then on, you're gonna say how you can't. We've heard from Prime Minister Fiala that it's not going so fast, but he hasn't said what's going fast and what the solutions are, so that's what I wanted to ask you. Citizens are waiting for this, because citizens are waiting every day for the government to stop the price increase and that it will work out. Then I'd suggest a second point. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to include as an extraordinary item in this meeting's agenda a discussion on the subject - we called it Emergency Measures and their impact on the health protection of citizens of the Czech Republic. I propose that, as the House of Government, we call upon the demise of the emergency situation, because (a) measures can be implemented under the Public Health Protection Act and under the Crisis Act. By the way, because of the emergency situation, the Christmas markets have also closed down. Let me just remind you that 14 days ago, we were proposing to cancel the emergency situation here, because, as I said, it can be implemented under other laws currently in force, some measures. Well, you're all here, including the government's five-wheeler, to support the closing of Christmas markets when I put it simply, because the five-wheelers of the government abstained on the vote, so they supported the emergency. To abstain means to support an emergency - they were not against it. That way, even because of you, Christmas markets closed and you supported the government of Andrej Babiš in closing Christmas markets, so the SPD found itself here alone. There are 20 of us here against 180, but we insist that closing Christmas markets is a mistake, and we show it immediately by actions. B) The second reason why we are proposing this point is that according to all available numbers, no matter how true they are in relation to covid, the growth of death is copying government restrictions and emergency states, which has sad logic, because tens of thousands, maybe hundreds of thousands of people at risk of serious diseases unrelated to covid simply cannot be helped. Nearly 103 000 people died in the Czech Republic this three quarters, a fifth more than last year. The record was mainly the first quarter. Nearly 47,000 people died in the Czech Republic from January to the end of March. According to the Ministry of Health, 15 105 people died with coronavirus. However, as we know from the official statement of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics of the Czech Republic, in statistics with covid, everyone is simply dead, no matter what they died of, if they were on the list of persons infected with SARS-CoV-2 at the time. In practice, as we know, that means that there are not only people who killed the fall off the roof, but also, as we know from a few leaked autopsy reports, people who didn't even have a virus at the time of death. I don't want to discuss whether covid is killing or not. It is quite indisputable that the situation caused by SARS-CoV-2 actually kills and kills really massively and kills infected and uninfected. To this day, no one in this country has had the courage to analyze the causes of what and who are actually killing. It's already clear that there are more of these causes. They're underfunded hospitals, long-term pressure to reduce beds, lack of health care due to low wages. These are government measures that have really reduced people's immunity, whether by stress from covid hysteria, or by restricting movement by banning sports, dancing, singing, or enjoying beer in the pub. By the way, the remarkable thing is that there is talk of hospital overload, which is certainly a big problem - and a big thank-you to health workers - but no one in the government will say that the Czech Republic has about 10 intensive beds per 100 000 inhabitants and Germany almost 30. This means that we have about three times less intensive beds in terms of 100,000 inhabitants than Germany, so logically there is a flood faster than in other countries. Of course, it goes to the detriment of the existing governments, which have reduced the number of intensive beds, and it was the ODS government in particular, we have to say that, and now we have ODS back here. So this is where you have to name it. Of course, closing schools or today's quarantine system leads to a further reduction in the number of people in health care who can provide care and, of course, to further reducing the prevention and treatment of really murderous diseases. I am not forgetting, of course, that the government has completely resigned from the primary covid treatment, as has been customary for every flu, through a practical physician. This has once again increased the burden on hospitals. [[14.20 hours]] Back to school. The SPD's movement rejects both the school closure and the compulsory wearing of drapes during teaching. Why do I say that? 'Cause we're starting this discussion again. Numbers positively tested and patients associated with covid-19 disease in recent days have been constantly decreasing. At the same time, however, the generals' requirements for school closure in the form of an extension of Christmas holidays are being sounded in particular. The SPD's movement rejects these proposals. The Czech Republic was the first to close schools last year, while schools were closed as a last resort abroad. The result is a loss of the entire school year and it is virtually impossible to eliminate this blackout. The level of full-time education could not be replaced by a distance study at the time of government restrictions, which also had enormous demands on pupils and students, teachers and parents. Instead of closing schools at a time when the situation is fundamentally different not only in individual regions but also in the schools themselves, we propose strengthening the powers of individual school directors who know the situation in place best. The SPD is also completely unacceptable to the proposed rewearing of children during teaching. Regular non-invasive testing of children and teachers should be carried out, followed by consistent tracing in case of a positive result. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to open our eyes and analyse the situation as accurately as possible, analyse who is dying, why hospitals are overloaded and how individual government measures, including emergency situations, contribute to this. The aim must be to ensure the safety of our citizens, of our country's citizens. The numbers are relentless. Neither vaccination, nor emergency conditions, nor government bans on singing, dancing, or swimming in the pool, nor discrimination without vaccination simply leads to the reduction of death. They say only a fool burns himself twice over a stove. Well, we've been burning ourselves here for the second year, and instead of learning, the government is making the same mistakes again and again. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the fact that the SPD is preparing a constitutional complaint against the government decree on compulsory covid vaccination of persons aged 60+ and selected professional groups, i.e. police officers, firefighters, soldiers, medics and others issued by the government of Andrej Babiš. This mandatory covid vaccination decree is to enter into force from March 2022. The SPD is refusing the covid vaccination to be mandatory, even under the threat of fines and penalties of CZK 10,000, if one of these groups rejects vaccination. Inoculation of people over the age of 60 - not even the Czech Vaccinological Society agrees with this decree. The highlight of absurdity is the compulsory vaccination of voluntary firefighters. At least 20 percent of our citizens refuse to inoculate against covid-19 disease with still experimental vaccine, which is still at the stage of clinical trials, and this needs to be respected. The SPD's movement calls for that decree to be abolished because we consider it discriminatory. The SPD movement will take all legal steps to abolish this decree. The SPD political movement considers that this decree does not comply with the Public Health Act. I'll come back to that later. Moreover, we believe that this decree violates one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, namely the right to the integrity of a person. The abolition of this decree for compulsory vaccination is in the competence of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic, and therefore we need the signatures of 25 Members or 10 Senators to file a constitutional complaint. Since the SPD has only 20 Members, I hereby address you directly in this Chamber, to the other Members of all other parties, to help us and if five of you would join us from any side in our submission of a constitutional complaint, because - I stress again, there are only twenty of us in the SPD, so we need five other Members' signatures. So I wanted to challenge you, all the other party members - so there's an YES, KDU-ČSL movement, TOP 09, STAN, Pirates, they're only four, so they wouldn't be enough for us, and there's an ODS - so if there's five of you, if you don't agree with the mandatory vaccination covid, then now you can show, please, if it's just words, if somebody is saying it somewhere, and you, too, are saying it, the incoming government - or some of you are saying it - then now we need the five signatures of the Members, and I'd like to ask you to show the actions, not just words, so that we can file a constitutional complaint, so we need to achieve the necessary number of signatures 25. Furthermore, of course, the SPD will also provide synergies to the persons concerned by this decree so that they can contact the Constitutional Court by means of a person entitled to file this constitutional complaint. Furthermore, the Ombudsman can file this constitutional complaint under the law, so this week we are also addressing the Ombudsman Stanislav Křeček by letter for the SPD, whether he would file this constitutional complaint. So the SPD is using all the options we have to prevent the mandatory covid vaccination decree for a number of our citizens, as decided by the government of Andrej Babiš here, and of course it needs to be filed. We have several reasons for filing for the Constitutional Court. In order for compulsory vaccination against covid to be legal and legitimate, several conditions would have to be met. First, according to the Constitutional Court's previous view, an intervention in physical integrity must be carried out only by law, not by a ministerial decree, because according to Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on the integrity and privacy of a person shall be guaranteed. It can only be limited in cases provided for by law. Secondly, this restriction of constitutional law in the event of vaccination against covid would have to comply with the so-called proportionality test, that is, interference with the body integrity of citizens must indeed be balanced by a specific effect. Covid-19 vaccination would actually have to prevent the emergence and spread of this disease, which, unlike other types of compulsory vaccination, they cannot do. covid mutates like the flu very quickly, so he'll always be ahead of the vaccines. Thirdly, another condition is that the disease that is being vaccinated against is a serious life-threatening infectious disease. As dangerous as covid is, its mortality or consequences cannot be compared to infections that are now subject to compulsory vaccination. We have no data on the mortality of covid. SARS-CoV-2 virus disease does not exist in the official statistics of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics as a cause of death. The Health Department also states on its website that there is no covid-19 cause of death. It is estimated that up to 1% of infected covid may die in developed countries. This is incomparable with the mortality of other diseases covered by compulsory vaccination. For example, in the case of tetanus, mortality ranges from 10 to 50 per cent, for the most serious forms almost 100 per cent. For diphtheria, it is currently between 5 and 10 %, for children under the age of five years and for persons over 40 years up to 20 percent. TB mortality is 16 percent. So these are all the reasons why we want to file constitutional complaints against the government's mandatory vaccination decree. Ladies and gentlemen, for the reasons set out above, I therefore ask you to include as an exceptional item in this House meeting's discussion on emergency measures and their impact on the protection of the health of citizens of the Czech Republic. So, first of all, I would suggest that we include this as the second item in the agenda for this meeting, after my proposal, that we address as the first item the price increase, inflation and the threat of the economic crisis, because it also burns very much for citizens, and if it does not pass as the second point, then I suggest that we place it as the sixth point just after points 1 to 4, when the House bodies vote, and as 5 I suggested that we address the price increase and inflation. So I'm asking for your support, and I hope the other parties will support us, because it really burns a huge number of citizens. [[14.30 hours]] Furthermore, I have a motion for further inclusion of an extraordinary item at the House meeting on behalf of the SPD MP. That's the point we named A call to the Government of the Czech Republic for an attempt by Commissioner Helena Dalliová to abolish Christmas. It has already been done by the media that the European Commission wanted to ban the use of the word Vánoce. So the leadership of the European Union is proposing, discussing that they would like to ban the use of the word Vánoce. The Commissioner for Equality, Malťanka Helena Dalliová, presented a new internal document by the European Commission on so-called inclusive communication. This material determines which words and expressions must not be used. For example, it is proposed to ban the use of words such as Christmas, Christmas holidays, and addressed ladies and gentlemen, because apparently someone in the European Union does not feel like a lady or a master, so as not to be offended. This document is to be part of the European Commission President Ursula von der Leyenová's plan for the introduction of the so-called European Union of Equality and is to be completed. This document, as we know, was publicly opposed by the Pope. This document contains the European Commission's guidelines for so-called inclusive communication to be followed by Commission staff in external and internal communication. This proposal considers the SPD to be a complete madness. In the EU, a bunch of ideological lunatics rule, who next time may well suggest not to use the word Easter, for example, so that we don't insult Islamic migrants here. Citizens of non-elected Euro Commissioners have introduced rules that have abolished thousands of years of conventions, expressions and words that have been used and used for centuries by our ancestors. We believe that these and similar misguided ideologies, from genderism and multiculturalism to the superiors of European law over the state and the backwards of all the national that the EU promotes, mean the destruction of sovereignty and identity of national nations and European civilization. We want the sovereignty of the Czech Republic without the dictation of the European Union. The SPD movement has long advocated the referendum law, including a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union, so that citizens themselves democratically decide their future in their country. Most in the House, i.e. the coalition of SPOL, which is KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, and Pirates and Stan, including the ANO movement, refuse to include the referendum law on the House's agenda. In fact, there is a referendum law in the vast majority of European Union countries. So what the SPD is promoting is standard democracy, on the contrary, most of democracy is defending here. In the event that the proposed item is approved by us, I propose, on behalf of the SPD, that we vote on this resolution. I will read it, a motion for a resolution of the SPD, which we would like the House to accept. But for that we need your votes, there are only 20 Members of the 200. So we propose a resolution: "Christmas is one of the two most important Christian festivals, which, however, in Europe outside the practicing believers, is also celebrated by people who do not claim to be one of the churches. For this reason, Christmas is undoubtedly one of the fundamental sources of identity of all European nations and an attempt by Helena Dalliová, a member of the European Commission to abolish Christmas or its redefining, which would be de facto equivalent, cannot be understood as an open attack on one of the oldest and most important pillars of the identity of the entire Western civilization. In this regard, it must also be noted that not even any of the political regimes that we - and rightly so - were accustomed to regard as top repulsive, that is, the Bolshevik and Fascist regime, have decided on such an attempt. For these reasons, it is not possible to see Commissioner Helena Dalliová otherwise than as completely unfit to continue to represent the interests of the European nations and European countries associated with the European Union. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic therefore requires the Government of the Czech Republic to immediately call on the Government of the Republic of Malta to take such measures as will result in the withdrawal of Commissioner Helena Dalliová from the European Commission as soon as possible. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic further requires the Government of the Czech Republic to inform the presidents of all the club members in writing about its actions in this matter. Sharing common rituals is one of the basic sources of identity of each entity. In this respect, Christmas is quite exceptional, because we are not likely to find another ritual that members of all European nations would share so massively." The end of the motion for a resolution from the SPD pen, which we would like to vote on here, if we pass our point to include the extraordinary point that I am talking about. But to do that again, we need the votes of you, Members of the other parties, because there are only 20 out of 200 of us. That is, I would ask you who also has a problem with the fact that the European Commission is debating that it would like to ban the use of words like Christmas, Christmas holidays, so I ask for your support. Those who do not support us agree, of course, because where else to discuss this than here in the Chamber of Deputies. So, once again, we need to show actions, not just words, because, of course, oral declarations will not solve anything, and we see what the Commissioner, who is in charge of the European Commission, is already proposing. That is precisely because they are only oral declarations, but if we put this resolution in writing, then the government will have to deal with it and, of course, there is a platform for them to report the complaints, because I have not yet recorded any real procedures or actual written statements or any official opinions for the government, whether for the current or future, at all towards the European Commission. So he's quiet again? So it's important that we take a stand. Here I have read the motion for our resolution and I propose the inclusion of this extraordinary point in this House meeting called The Call to the Government of the Czech Republic on the attempt of Commissioner Helena Dalliová to abolish Christmas as the third point of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies after our two points - Acceleration, inflation, the threat of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic, to help people with higher prices, and the second point where we called it Emergency Measures and their impact on the protection of the health of citizens of the Czech Republic, we would like it as a third point. And if it didn't pass, we would have designed it constructively as the seventh point, because I understand that the first four points are changes in the composition of the House of Deputies and some elections and so on, so we would have suggested it as the seventh point, so that no one can make excuses that there is no time for that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u5	All three proposals have been noted, Mr President. I'll just fill in the apology from today's meeting. Mr Nacher is still apologizing from 15 o'clock for health reasons and Mr Jan Bureš, who apologizes for the whole day for work reasons. Now, just for information for you, order logged in. The Minister is now signed up for the resignation of Alena Schillerová with priority rights, followed by the President of the ODS club Marek Benda, Minister Dostálová, Minister Brabec, Minister Metnar, Prime Minister Babiš and subsequently - it is in the order that the various ministers have applied - and then Mr Juchelka, Mr Stanjura and Vice-President Kovářová are already signed up. This is the order of priority rights. It is now Mrs Schillerová's envoy. I understand that you would like to prefer, but in that case, it is necessary that a number of other entries be preferred before Prime Minister Babiš. Well, that's just recorded, I can't change the order here in this case at all. Well, I'm sorry, but in this case, there's no other way. Madam President and Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, I think we can handle this. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to come forward with a point of inclusion at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies entitled Draft State Budget for 2022, with the new order number 9, and allow me to justify this inclusion. [[14.40 hours]] The result of this game is the fact that in the Chamber of Deputies it is to be parked well prepared for the investment and pro-growth draft state budget of 2022. Instead of discussing it and approving it, the budgetary provisional is to be declared irresponsiblely on the pretext of a furious search for cuts. But the Czech economy and public finances are not in a situation where they need furious bounces. We cannot afford lost months in the immense uncertainty that the budgetary provisional brings, and there is no reason for that. Our public debt of 43.3% places us in the sixth best place among the countries of the European Union in Estonia, Bulgaria, Luxembourg, Denmark and Sweden. Its level is much better than the debt of our neighbouring countries and more than twice as low as the EU average. Sometimes we hear guaranteed information that our debt is low, but the pace of its growth is supposedly alarming. But this is also a common rumour, a rumor that exploits an uncurrent and outdated figure about the rate of debt growth in the first quarter of this year, when the Ministry of Finance ordered the maximum pre-financing of its borrowing needs for the whole of this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u7	I'm asking for peace for the Minister, but I think peace is enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u8	Thank you. Subsequently, in the second quarter, the Czech Republic has already reduced its debt by 1.3 percent, and we expect similar developments in the third and fourth quarters of this year. The argument that our debt rate is too high and stands out among other countries is as far from the truth as the claim that the budgetary provisional is a walk through a blooming orchard that will not jeopardise the use of covido aid, investment projects or wage increases in the public sector. And what's the reason for the budget commission anyway? Before the elections, five-wheelers reported that they could cut CZK 120 billion in the draft state budget for 2022. Soon after the election, it was only 100 billion. Well, now it's 80 billion and maybe less. Either way, the new government coalition wants to redo our budget and submit a new budget. Not only do I fear that cuts will hurt ordinary citizens a lot and will be at the expense of the country's prosperity, there is also the risk of that provisional, and I would really like to warn them very strongly about this. We hear false and misleading information about the fact that the provisional is not really going to hurt anyone, but the opposite is true. In my opinion, the budgetary provisional is a gamble with the future of the Czech Republic and its citizens. First of all, the payment of covido programs, such as COVID 21, COVID - Uncovered costs or Antivirus, will be threatened. In addition, the state's investment will slow down and the government's budgetary reserve, which is now planned over 6 billion, cannot be used in the budgetary make-up, and could help to cover the covido programs at the beginning of next year. Nor will it be able to touch the state's neutral money from past years, the so-called unused expenditure. There is also a threat of wage increases in the public sector, even if we have done our utmost to insure it through the approval of government regulations. So police officers, firefighters, social workers, and other professions that, especially at the time of the epidemic, are going to receive at least a symbolic increase in salaries approved by our government? Won't teachers have to say goodbye to approved 3,5 percent of the salary? That irresponsible move would cost people the rest of their security. I have such an unpleasant feeling that in the hands of the hostages, especially those we should be protecting most, those who rightly expect quick covido assistance from the state. At the same time, the draft state budget for 2022 prepared by the government fully reflects the economic possibilities of our country, brings a year-on-year reduction of the planned balance of CZK 123.4 billion, while supporting the future of the Czech Republic, for example, with record investments of CZK 218 billion, growth of pensions of CZK 797, maintenance of lower, 15% of employees' taxation, a renewed increase in the discount on the taxpayer by CZK 3,000 or historically the highest support of science and research. There is no relevant reason not to support the budget. It is a budget whose main objective is to use a low level of our debt to implement measures that will help to maintain and improve the living standards of the population, mitigate the negative effects of pandemics on the most affected groups and restore strong economic growth as quickly as possible through record investment. And it's a budget that certainly doesn't forget savings. However, the savings rate of 5% of the operating costs of the State was set in such a way as not to cause adverse interventions in the state's capacity, public services and economic expectations. We are convinced of the correctness of gradual budgetary consolidation. Yes, slow consolidation means a completely different approach than the one that signed on to deepen the recession between 2012 and 2013 and did not produce the desired effect at all. First of all, the Czech Republic needs predictable economic policy, a gradual post-pandemic consolidation that does not tick off a fragile economic recovery, ideally reducing the deficit of about half a percentage point of GDP per year, so that the Czech Republic returns to balanced budgets by 2028 at the latest. The Czech Republic certainly does not need to raise taxes, but to continue their proper selection, to fight tax evasion and fraud. The proposal to cancel electronic sales records, limit control reports, increase the discount on the taxpayer or reduce social insurance is not a surprise in light of the well-known statements made by representatives of the SPOLU coalition. However, it must be noted that these are steps with significant negative budgetary implications. The reduction in social security by 2 percentage points costs 35 billion per year, an increase in the tax payer's discount of CZK 3 000 of 12.5 billion per year. By abolishing the EET, the budget is losing 20 billion a year after the full start. Only these three steps mean a charge of nearly 70 billion a year. I can't imagine the measures that would compensate for these blackouts and, moreover, should have saved another 80 billion a year. I cannot imagine it, and I believe that similarly drastic cuts are the last thing our economy needs now. Yes, the state of our public finances is good, our economy is strong, the banking sector is extremely healthy, the budgets of the authorities have unprecedented reserves, and health insurance companies are also doing great. We have a pillow that allows us to ease the wounds of the domestic economy. It is thanks to this pillow that we belong and will continue to be in international competition among bonita creditors who will not lose control of the sustainability of their public finances and will not be trapped in debt, even without drastic cuts. [[14.50 hours]] It's not our wishes, it's our facts. It's confirmed by the most eligible of our creditors. This is confirmed by credit rating agencies, last Friday, December 10th, by Fitch. Credit rating agencies particularly appreciate the long-term prudent fiscal policy of government and the low debt of the general government sector. It is clear that the Czech Republic does not stand badly for its budgetary policy and therefore should not deviate from the set trend. We must invest in the living standards of our country. We must increase pensions accordingly. People who work their whole lives and make an honest contribution to the system deserve a dignified old age. This is what intergenerational solidarity is all about, and that is what an advanced state is capable of taking care of the most necessary, and that is twice the case in times of crisis. We all remember the time when our parents and grandparents received envelopes with information that their pension would rise by 40 crowns or even less. And speaking of living standards, I certainly don't mean just pensions. Our country has simply shifted to a completely different level in wage and salary levels since 2014. Not only public sector employees such as teachers, paramedics, police or firefighters know this well. It's just an economic fact. Thanks to a reduction in employees' taxes from 20.1 per cent to 15 per cent from 1 January this year, even at a time when employers can no longer afford such increases in payouts. A bet is paid that there is no need to raise money blindly for better management, higher investment, and higher living standards. Increasing taxes was part of the common practice of right-wing governments. On the contrary, our government has been reducing taxes throughout its term of office. We have reduced taxes by CZK 510 billion since 2014, and this money remains human. Those, as I'm sure we agree, know best how to deal with them. I must laugh when I hear from the opposition her favorite, that the government didn't do anything about the tax evasion of large corporations. On the contrary, we focused on large fish and achieved results. Just look at tax housewives at transfer prices that are really enormous. Since 2014, the tax loss has already been reduced or the tax base of these corporations has been increased by CZK 47 billion. We have successfully responded to the phenomenon of a shared economy. We concluded a tax memorandum with Uber on the basis of which the financial administration obtains all the information necessary to ensure control of the income tax of natural persons. We have prepared and enforced an amendment to the Local Charges Act, which has established equal rules for all accommodation service providers including Airbnb. Our design of digital tax according to the prestigious Bloomberg Czech Republic showed the world how to properly tax internet giants. In international investment arbitrations, we are among the most successful countries in the world. Since January 2015, the Ministry of Finance has won fifteen arbitrages and has defended over CZK 20 billion in the state register, the last time with developer Pawlowský in November this year. We're reducing the business-related administration. Nearly 80,000 entrepreneurs have decided to pay taxes and insurance under a flat-rate tax, i.e. by entering a single permanent payment into internet banking and no longer have to deal with anything. Currently, the registration of tradesmen who decide to take advantage of this regime in 2022 is culminating. We actively deal with illegal gambling and we advocate that the Czech Republic is no longer a casino in the heart of Europe. We have completed modern regulation of gambling that works, we have launched a register of excluded persons from gambling, which we protect not only the players themselves, but also their families. Compared to 2014, we managed to reduce the number of games by 80 percent and more than half less we also have slot machines. We passed an amendment to the Exchange Act and stepped on a currency exchange that was unfair to our clients. We have introduced a ban on double exchange tickets or the possibility of withdrawing from a disadvantageous exchange within three hours of the transaction. In short, everything that has been a disgrace to our country for decades is slowly disappearing. And believe me, I could go on for a really long time. However, I would like to focus on one specific topic, which is covid and economic aid associated with it. March 2020 - the outbreak of the pandemic brought about the need for an immediate response and we responded by launching measures that no one has ever done before. When we came up with a global moratorium on loans in the spring of 2020, it was something that was new in Europe. There wasn't any experience that we could copy, and we just pushed through the moratorium and worked. Concerns about the breach of the creditor-debtor relationship have not been fulfilled. We have shown that even a small country can pioneer. They used hundreds of thousands of debtors to help, and with them the economy. The compensation bonus, or immediate assistance to affected tradesmen, paid by the financial administration in the form of a refund - has thus reached our citizens more than CZK 43 billion since the spring of last year. Or a brand new law to support the lending of companies with a state guarantee, which brought immediate support to companies that would otherwise have reached the loan only difficult or too late, amounting to CZK 500 billion. The total amount of aid granted to the economy in connection with the pandemic then reached CZK 618.7 billion on 30 November this year, of which CZK 325 billion this year. It is this sturdy aid to households, companies, municipalities, or health system that has helped us to significantly reduce the decline in the economy. Black scenarios, which predicted double-digit falls under the weight of tense spring or autumn days, simply did not come true. I'm sure history will decide everything. However, objective mitigation of economic impact is a relatively strong signal that support for government action was the right decision, strong and certainly not the only one. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now focus your attention on the condition of our economy, which has been, and must remain, the main indicator of our economic policy efforts. The Czech economy is gradually recovering from the shock brought by the pandemic of covid-19 disease and measures taken by governments to limit the spread of the disease. However, the revival is slower than in a number of EU countries and the real gross domestic product is still slightly below the pre-crisis peak reached in the fourth quarter of 2019. The expected growth in economic output of 2,5 % this year should be driven by all components of domestic demand, most household consumption, changes in stocks and investments in fixed capital. While problems in global supply chains should have a significant negative impact on exports, increasing investment in fixed capital and stocks should also support imports. The balance of foreign trade could thus slow economic growth to a range of 2.5 percentage points. In 2022, economic growth could reach 4.1 % thanks to the continued recovery of private consumption of fixed capital investments and a more favourable contribution from the foreign trade balance. [[15.00 hours]] At the initial stage of the pandemic, there was a reduction in aggregate supply and demand with ambiguous consequences for inflation. The global economy recovered quite quickly after the decline in the first half of 2020. Expansive fiscal and monetary policy helped this. However, the bidding party is still affected by the unresolved pandemic. And it is unable to respond adequately to increasing demand. There is a disruption in transport, supply and production shutdowns, and this has resulted in a rise in prices, which was first seen in commodity markets, but is gradually reflected in other price circuits. The rise in inflation is becoming a major macroeconomic problem. Annual inflation accelerated to 6 percent in November 2021 and significantly exceeded the current forecast. Without any remission of VAT on electricity and natural gas, annual inflation would be around 7 percent. According to the November forecast, the average inflation rate should reach 3.5 percent in 2021. Administrative measures, especially the growth of regulated prices, should be reflected more significantly in 2022. Among them will be the most important increase in the price of electricity and natural gas. As part of changes to indirect taxes, we are counting on another, albeit a more moderate increase in excise duty on tobacco products compared to 2021. Administrative measures should contribute 2.3 percentage points to the average inflation rate. The price of oil, according to the basis of the forecast, should essentially stagnate next year, which should reduce the supply pressure on consumer price growth, even if the fritz in supply is likely to persist. On the contrary, demand factors should act in the direction of higher inflation, as the production gap should already be positive and household consumption should recover strongly. The decline in unit labour costs should be affected by the fall in inflation, and the strengthening of the Czech koruna to both major world currencies should also be reflected in weakly sub-inflation. In line with the above, we expect the average inflation rate to reach 6.1 percent in 2022. Developments in the labour market were only slightly affected by the cessation of government support programmes. In October, unemployment rates fell slightly further to 2.6 percent and remained the lowest throughout the European Union. This contributes to the dynamics of earnings. Demand for foreign workers remains strong. Employment should increase slightly in the quarter-on-quarter comparison from the third quarter of 2021 due to the economic recovery. This year, however, the impact should fall by half a percent in the first half of the year, with an increase of 0.8% in 2022. On average, this year's unemployment rate should reach 3%. It should gradually decline over the next period due to economic growth. The amount of wages and salaries could increase by 5.3 % for the whole 2021 year. Sustained labour market fructions should once again be a dominant factor in the development of wages in the market sectors. Strong demand for work could support the dynamics of average wages and employment next year. In 2022, wages and salaries could increase by 5.1 %. Macroeconomic prediction is burdened by a number of risks, which the Ministry of Finance considers in total to be shifted downwards. The ongoing problems in global supply chains contribute to inflation pressures and are already an important barrier to production growth in selected sectors. Due to the lack of key inputs, some companies temporarily reduce or even completely interrupt production. We expect that the situation will gradually improve over the first half of next year. After that, the problems in supply chains should no longer dampen economic growth to a greater extent. However, the risk is to prolong the lack of components deeper into 2022. After the failure in supply chains has subsided, the pressures on price level growth should be eased. Even then, however, the risk of remaining inflationary expectations seems to persist more significantly over the Czech National Bank's target and, thus, a stronger increase in interest rates. The development of the epidemic situation in the Czech Republic and abroad is also a negative risk. The prediction is based on the assumption that macroeconomically significant antiepidemic restrictions will not be necessary due to population vaccination against covid-19 and the high number of people who have experienced this disease. However, the risk continues to be the emergence and spread of new corticosteroid mutations against which the available vaccines could be less effective. In the event of a significant deterioration in the epidemiological situation, a budgetary provisional may also be considered as a risk, which would significantly limit the State's ability to support sectors affected by anti-epidemic restrictions. It will also be crucial whether and how quickly structural changes will occur in the economy. The available data suggest that after a short break in the labour market, imbalances are starting to appear again to a greater extent, which have characterised them even before the outbreak. If there were a downturn in some sectors and more redundancies, for example in sectors severely affected by crises, the lack of balancing supply and demand could, in the event of a difference between the qualifying structure of job applicants and employers' requirements, push for an increase in unemployment. At the same time, this fact would limit the growth of firms in forward-looking sectors that would deal with a shortage of workers. Tensions in the labour market could support wage dynamics, which could grow faster compared to predictions. This concerns, in particular, the horizon of the outlook, when a strong increase in the prices of many production inputs should disappear. In the medium and long term, in view of demographic developments, it will continue to be crucial to increase labour productivity. Labour market problems could trigger investments in automation, robotics and digital technologies. Gross fixed capital formation could thus grow even faster than forecasted. Due to the high involvement of Czech companies in global supply chains, their shift into positions with higher added value, either towards the initial stage of research and development, or to the stage of sales of the final product, would also be an important impulse for productivity growth. The deep decline in real GDP in 2020 was largely determined by the decline in household consumption. As a result of an unprecedented increase in saving rates, there was a strong accumulation of financial assets mainly in the form of currency and deposits. At least part of the household could use these funds to finance deferred consumption. As a result, the recovery of household consumption could be more dynamic compared to the prediction. On the other hand, in the case of low-income households in particular, it could hinder a stronger than expected increase in living costs. The decline in economic activity and the associated deterioration in the financial situation of some households and firms did not lead to a significant increase in the volume of loans repaid. However, the risk remains to overestimate residential property prices. Due to the importance of the automotive industry for the Czech economy, the risk is the strong procyclicality of this sector. Its export orientation and dependence on supply chains. The last mentioned factor is the current problem for the automotive industry, because due to the lack of inputs some companies temporarily restrict or completely interrupt production. [[15.10 hours]] The risks are also aggravated by structural changes in the automotive industry due to the gradual tightening of emission standards. However, the transition to alternative types of propulsion will require enormous investments in the development of technologies, machinery and equipment or infrastructure. The impact on employment or supplier-customer relations can also be expected. This economic reality determines the parameters of the government proposed by the State Budget Act. His approval in the form presented is what I would like to appeal to once more and significantly. In this context, I cannot now recall some of its key and economically key attributes. So first of all, to the revenue side. The state budget revenue for 2022 is budgeted at CZK 701.6 billion and is rising by CZK 65,7 billion. Revenue from social security contributions is budgeted at CZK 591.4 billion and, compared to the budget of 2021, there is an increase of CZK 29,3 billion. Revenue from the budget of the European Union and financial mechanisms, including accounting operations of the Rural Development Programme, is budgeted at a total amount of CZK 193,1 billion, i.e. CZK 60.9 billion higher compared to 2021, which is linked in particular to the inclusion of revenue from the National Recovery Plan. The expenses side of the proposal. Sorry. [[The secretary drank water.]] The social area includes an increase in the average old-age pension from 1 January 2022 by 805 CZK, which is by 5.2 %. The average old-age pension should be CZK 16 280 after the increase. The total expenditure on pensions is thus increased year on year by CZK 20.6 billion to CZK 556.2 billion. The State's payment to public health insurance from the state budget for persons for whom the State is a payer increases by CZK 9.3 billion year on year to a total amount of CZK 138,9 billion. The assessment base will be increased from CZK 13 088 to CZK 14 570 per calendar month, which represents an increase in monthly payment per person by CZK 200 from CZK 1 767 to CZK 1 967. Capital expenditure for 2022 is budgeted at CZK 218,7 billion, representing 11,3% of the state budget expenditure and an increase of CZK 31,2 billion compared to 2021. The expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Defence is designed for 2022 of CZK 93.5 billion, an annual increase of CZK 8.1 billion after taking into account the increase of CZK 10 billion in 2021. The share of GDP expenditure in this chapter is 1,45 per cent. The increasing trajectory of defense spending is maintained in annual comparison. The expenditure is mainly aimed at modernising the Army of the Czech Republic and developing defence capabilities. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work done is budgeted in the amount of CZK 252.4 billion. Against the approved budget 2021, there is an increase - and now please let everyone listen to me, even those who listen to us remotely, because they often ask me about it - an increase of CZK 13.3 billion. The increase is mainly due to the fact that the government has decided to increase the volume of salaries by CZK 1,400 per month on a budget covered by places across all categories of employees in government regulation, this is soldiers, members of the Police of the Czech Republic, firefighters and other state employees, except for the field of educational staff in regional education, where there is an increase of 3,5 % in the volume of salaries. In other words, the next government would have to cancel this government order by the end of the year so that those people wouldn't get the money. Education support expenditure is one of the government's priorities. For 2022, the total expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports amounting to CZK 254,7 billion is budgeted. Against the budget for 2021, this is an increase of CZK 15.1 billion, which is 6.28 percent. The budget of Chapter MŠMT includes, among other things, the special-purpose increase in regional education by CZK 4.8 billion to ensure the growth of the salaries of pedagogical workers by 3,5 per cent and CZK 1.7 billion to increase the salaries of non-teaching workers - all those who help in schools - cookbooks, cleaners, janitors; to cover expenditure on increasing the number of children, pupils and students and to increase the quality of teaching by allowing for further division of hours by a total of CZK 3.5 billion; strengthening subsidies for private and ecclesiastical education for the total volume of CZK 12,8 billion for 2022 is an increase of CZK 2.8 billion; increasing expenditure for universities by CZK 1.2 billion for the total volume of CZK 29,6 billion for 2022. In the state budget, CZK 39.3 billion are included in the national resources for research, development and innovation support, which represents an increase of CZK 1.8 billion compared to 2021. All of these items will be monitored - to see what happens in the proposal that will be presented by the future five-wheelers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now discussed the parameters of the draft law on the State Budget, both on the revenue and expenditure side. However, I believe that it is equally important to take a closer look at what, on the other hand, the budgetary make-up regime means. Allow me, then, a few sentences on the implications of the provisional budget. The budgetary provisional means an exceptional state in the state budget, which should take as short a time as possible. The primary objective is to cover all mandatory expenses and meet existing contractual and other obligations. At the most, the Minister of Finance may set one twelfth of the total expenditure of the approved budget for the previous year for all chapters for one month. This amount is unstoppable, it contains all the chapters of the expenditure realized and, of course, it is not without restrictions. Time space for the revision of the draft State Budget Act. The Rules of Procedure set a deadline for the repayment of the revised draft State Budget Act for a maximum of 30 days. From this can be derived compliance with the basic thesis for budgetary make-up. It is an exceptional state of affairs in the state budget and should take as short a time as possible. The 30-day time limit does not provide room for any major changes since the legislative framework is essentially unchangeable in this time frame. [[15.20 hours]] Practical restrictions in the implementation of expenditure and on chapters or, where appropriate, the organisational units of the State at the time of the provisional budget: from the point of view of funding options, chapter managers should sort out expenditure into the following categories, while respecting the allocated monthly limit, for expenditure which can be implemented - the expenditure titles of the mandatorial nature contained in the draft State Budget Act, such as pensions, the payment of the State to public health insurance and the like; expenditure titles which would be covered under the standard state budget by claims of unused expenditure. It is expenditure contracted and budgeted in previous years which has not been drawn up, for example, expenditure on Antivirus, up to the amount of available resources from 2021, subsidies, contracts not paid by the end of 2021. However, there are a number of other restrictions, whether it be in the impossibility of drawing on the government's budget reserve, in the impossibility of publishing new grant titles, but my government colleagues will discuss them in more detail when they are given the floor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u9	Thank you for presenting the proposal. Now I'm going to read some apologies. The Minister at the Plaga resignation apologizes for today's work. Mr David Pražák apologizes today between 17 and 21 o'clock for reasons of family and Mrs Helena Válková apologises between 15.15 and 15.45 for reasons of work. Now the President of the ODS club, Mr Marek Benda, is registered with priority rights, and I will just say that the Ministers subsequently agreed to resign, that they would prefer the Prime Minister's priority right in resignation, and then they would go - login, so the order would change a little bit. Now I ask the Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u10	Madam President, Prime Minister in resignation, ladies and gentlemen, I will be more brief than the Minister, who is presenting a budget that is not on the agenda. I will propose a few amendments to the draft agenda. The first amendment would concern the proposal to delete paragraph 8, which is a Government proposal by which the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to ratify the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in the field of income taxes, signed in Pristina on 26 November 2013, by the House press 65. I'm afraid, as the meeting extends, this point could burden us enough to have to extend the meeting until tomorrow. So that's why I suggest we launch him. Secondly, I propose the launch of paragraph 9, the draft budget of the State Environmental Fund for 2022 and the medium-term outlook of the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic for the years 2023 to 2024, the House's press 59. I also consider it inappropriate for us to discuss this draft environmental budget before the state budget that is not on the agenda for this meeting, although it will be proposed, so I think it makes no sense to do the State Environmental Fund either. I note that the Committee on the Environment has suspended this item until a new government is appointed. And the last proposal I have is that, as item 1 of this meeting, which means before the elections, a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the necessary role of nuclear energy in decarbonisation of the economy should be included. This proposal would then be made by Mr Stanjura, but I would like him to be included as point 1 of this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u11	Thank you for the proposals made to President Benda. Now, therefore, the elected priority right of the Prime Minister in the resignation of Andrej Babiš, and just for information to the rest of you, what is the next order: Minister in the resignation of Havlíček, Minister in the resignation of Dostálová, Minister in the resignation of Brabec, Minister in the resignation of Metnar, Minister in the resignation of Vojtěch and subsequently Mr Juchelka, Mr Stanjura and Vice-President Kovářová. Those are the log-ins. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u12	So, hello, Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to two things here, because I understand, of course, that you will not read anything in the media about what is really being discussed at the European Council. On the contrary, we often read various inaccurate information. And I would like to respond to President Okamura, who unfortunately is not here, but perhaps my colleagues will tell him, and these are emission allowances. First of all, it is not true that Poland is some leader in this issue. It's not true. On the contrary, the Czech Republic is the leader, the Czech Republic, and I personally have developed the greatest activity of all prime ministers and presidents of the European Union in terms of emission allowances. On 28 September 2021, when we saw that emission allowances, which were at the level of 33 euro in January and had an impact on the price of electricity of about 23 percent, I wrote a letter to Charles Michel and the President of the European Commission Ursule von der Leyen, that it was a big problem and that it was necessary to amend the directive. In particular, I proposed that the MiFID Directive should be specifically amended because it is not possible for emission allowances prices, which is de facto emission tax, to be the subject of speculation by various investors, banks, investment funds and so on. So it was the first letter and I wrote it because I got off on it. I joined the Slovenian Presidency on 5 and 6 October 2022 in Brno and waited until midnight until finally the European Council would be willing to discuss it. Then I spoke at the European Council meeting on 21 October in Brussels, where I drew attention to the critical situation in the development of emission allowances. At that time, the price of emission allowances was 64. [[Euro]] Here, I can show you the graph. [[He's showing the material.]] January 33 euros and now it went up to 88. Yesterday morning at 9 o'clock I rewritten Ursule von der Leyen and Charles Michel and again I ask them to change the directive, and not only to change it, but to return to the emission allowances market again 378 905 382 emission allowances that were withdrawn from the market for some stability, which is, of course, nonsense, from 1 September 2021 to August 2022. So, Mr President - he's not here yet or still - the Polák have come and we discussed yesterday, V4, with Emmanuel Macron, and I gave the Polish Prime Minister a copy of the letter. So the Czech Republic is a leader in making this directive change. This directive is pointless and, of course, has a major negative impact on industrial countries such as Poland, the Czech Republic and others. So emission allowances yes, Poland and the Czech Republic, and tomorrow, Thursday, the European Council will again, we will talk about it. So we were the first, and not that the Polák are a role model. They just came in and said they're going to leave the ETS. [[Of that?]] Yes, fine. So it's nonsense. They won't leave. [[15.30 hours]] Sam is nonsense. They won't leave. The Czech Republic received CZK 40 billion from emission allowances this year. The question is whether the emission allowances are distributed fairly. And out of the $40 billion of $15 billion, it went into the budget, and $25 billion goes into the modernization fund. So we're getting it. So leaving it is, of course, nonsense, but the directive needs to be changed so that basically the companies and everyone can plan, because it's hard for someone to plan when it changes by 300 percent in a year. So that's the first thing. So the Czech Republic is a leader. I've been performing repeatedly, and if you don't remember, I've been blocking the European Council for five hours for the last time. Five hours! This is the huge advantage that any prime minister can block the advice and push his text to conclusions. And they didn't want colleagues, they didn't want a word of speculative capital. We were arguing there, I got off about 12 times, because even those premieres don't all understand it in detail. So the Czech Republic is a leader, we are promoting it, we are promoting it, and I am convinced that the new Prime Minister of the Fiala must promote it, too, because it is logical. As for the measures and inflation, I beg you. You really need to read those numbers. Inflation - comparison November/October - increased by only 0.2 percent. Zero, two percent. Why? Why, Prime Minister Okamura, who is not here? Because electricity inflation in November/October is minus 16.2 % and gas minus 11.5 %. Why? As we are, Mrs Schillerová has reduced VAT from 21 per cent to zero within the scope of her competence. And that's exactly what we've done for people. Not 21 per cent of VAT, but 0 per cent of VAT, which is why we have negative inflation on electricity and on gas, and the same will happen in December. So if the colleague is so concerned about electricity, gas and energy prices, he has the opportunity, tomorrow is an extraordinary meeting for energy, and we will try to convince the new coalition to accept our proposals. Commissioner Gentiloni has no problem with the fact that we will also have VAT zero next year. And that's really the only thing we can do to help people. And, of course, there's another draft of laws about the contribution to the POZE, there's a bill that Mr Brabec has from where the money comes from. We have the money, but we need to take it out of that modernization fund and give it to the people. So we are taking concrete measures, so it would be good for everyone to get to know it and tell it truthfully, because the truth is, and I repeat again, the Czech Republic is a leader who is fighting to change the MoFID directive on emission permits. Most often, mostly, I write letters, I perform, but of course the European Council decides unanimously, so convince other colleagues. By the way, even V4 - yes, Poland and we or vice versa - we and Poland, but Maďar and Slovák have no major problem. Then I would like to respond, and actually, if I may, on the proposal that Mr Benda has made here. Please, I would very much like to clarify the situation, because, of course, I hear from the future or existing coalition that what we did with the core and how it was with taxonomy and decarbonization, etc. So, of course, you're proposing a resolution where you're actually breaking into an open door, because what you want, we've been doing for almost two and a half years, and it's also necessary to give an exact name to who you're calling because the EU is who? The European Commission has it. The European Commission has taxonomy. And you're giving me credit, that's great. I just want to say that we're already doing this. So the taxonomy of sustainable activities is the European regulatory classification system and the transparency tool. It is legal in the form of a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 June 2020, and it entered into force on 12 July 2020. It simplifies the circumstances under which economic activity can be considered sustainable. This means that even in this regard we were the leader and MEP Mr Vondra keeps repeating, and some of you repeat that we have signed a Green Deal. Please don't sign anything at the European Council. There's a silent procedure. There are reading conclusions, and if you want to block it, you need to log in soon and formulate your text. So I will now read to you why the resolution that you want, Mr Benda, is actually a long time ago. First of all, we have tried to make sure that the principle of technological neutrality, which is the basis of Czech energy policy and is firmly anchored in the primary law of the European Union, is always remembered when the European Union accepts its ambitious climate commitments. The first step was explicitly recognising the core as a resource that Member States can use as a technology for reducing emissions in the energy sector, which I personally pushed into the conclusions of the European Council on 12 December 2019. So, colleagues, please, 2019. So it's been two years, and I made it point six. And it was the first time that the European Council recognised nuclear energy as an emission-free technology. What was going on? Of course, there was a Prime Minister - I don't know her name - Brigitte, the Austrian Prime Minister. She was sitting next to me, and Angela Merkel was consoling her because I was blocking it. We acted until 3:00 a.m. and I said the core, the word must be there. It has to be. And by blocking it, I pushed it through. That was the first time. And Brigitte, in the end, Mrs Merkelová chatted her up and agreed, and that was it. For the second time, please, I have made explicit reference to the conclusions of the European Council on 10 December 2020 in point 14 that gas is a transition fuel that can be used by Member States to achieve the European Union's climate objectives. We've blocked it, we've also explained that... And that's where the crust was. I was at the council explaining to my colleagues what was actually the bark and what was wrong with our forests, when - now I don't remember what year - our forests were still eating CO2, and then unfortunately our predecessors let them eat bark and now emit our forests CO2. That is why it was important for us to push this into those conclusions so that the European Commission and the Union - the Commission would acknowledge our percentage, because of course it has an impact. So on December 10, 2020, point 14, the fight again almost by morning, I pushed for gas to be a transition fuel that can be used by Member States to achieve the European Union's climate objectives and those forests were there. So you can check it all out. That's why I'm always sorry, even though, of course, the newspapers don't write it, because they only write nonsense that happens behind closed doors, and of course, they often lie because it's not true at all. A huge advantage. Prime Minister Fiala will have a huge advantage. He's not gonna agree to anything, and he's gonna be tough, so he's gonna push. And I advocated it, so your resolution, I repeat, is already fulfilled and all these achievements were the result of the active enforcement of the position of the Czech Republic in all preparatory formats, and of course also colleagues Schillerová, Havlíček, Brabec and others fought for the taxonomy that we eventually pushed for. [[15.40 hours]] So we have also promoted these positions at COREPER and at the Council of the EU and at informal conversations and letters to Member States and EU institutions. Yes, even the officials advocated it. The highlight of the diplomatic activity of the Czech Republic in the fight for nuclear and gas recognition as technologies that fall under the sustainability criteria has been a series of initiatives since the end of the summer 2021, as well as the Czech Republic in close cooperation with the nuclear block - France, Slovakia, Hungary, Finland, Slovenia, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia - and the gas - gas group, next to the previously mentioned Malta, Greece and Cyprus - the block, these two blocks, appealed in many European Commission forums as well as to other partners in this matter. In particular, the V4 Finance Ministers' statement of 30 September 2021, which advocates the integration of core and gas under taxonomy, the joint article of the Ministers of the Czech Republic's economy and France, can be mentioned. And we and France were the leaders of the struggle for the taxonomy that we finally pushed through. The Czech Republic, France, Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania and Finland in the main European newspapers of 4 October 2021, and it was a joint link between these ministers of the economy, which fought primarily for nuclear energy. Furthermore, a letter from the head of the cabinet of the President of the European Commission on the initiative of Slovakia with the support of the Czech Republic, France, Poland, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania, Finland, Italy, Bulgaria, Cyprus, Malta, Greece towards the October European Council, which calls for non-discriminatory conditions for core and gas in taxonomy. [[unintelligible]] And No paper - in turn the Czech Republic, France, Bulgaria, Croatia, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Romania and Slovenia, which elaborates which criteria for nuclear and gas energy await these states in the proposal for a second delegated act. In addition, the Czech Republic and other countries have repeatedly pointed out the need to integrate the core and gas into taxonomy both bilaterally at all EU Council meetings - GAC, ECOFIN, TTE of the European Council - as well as at the meetings of all preparatory bodies. Taxonomy is not on the agenda of the European Council on 16 December, because, in short, the President of the European Commission has made it clear to the microphone that the European Commission will resolve this, that it will accept it and that it is expected to happen on 22 December. So the resolution you're proposing here is fulfilled. Of course, it is a process, it is the competence of the European Commission, yes, so the regulation itself is general and does not contain any technical criteria, but it is part of the task for the European Commission to present precise technical criteria by 31 December 2020 in the form of a so-called delegated act, and this has happened. The delegated act was submitted on 21 April 2021, yes, and it was subsequently discussed that the European Commission would issue one more complementary delegated act to classify these areas in terms of sustainability. It should be clearly stated: core and gas, and this is expected to be issued on 22 December 2021. Since these are so-called delegated acts in both cases, they are not presented by a qualified majority in the legislative process. The first delegated act is now being assessed by the Member States, where a number of states express concern about the strictness of the criteria for individual areas, such as for forestry Finland and Sweden. The second delegated act will also be examined by the Member States. Please, we didn't sleep, we're fighting for it. We've been fighting for this for more than two years, it's a clear priority, and, of course, the whole thing, as far as I know, the political spectrum wants a core here, so I just want to, and thank you for the opportunity here to say it and tell the truth, because, of course, in the media, they don't care, they write various disinformations. I repeat once again: the Czech Republic is a leader in the fight to change emission allowances, which are rising uncontrolledly - bad directives, I will speak again. The Czech Republic fought with France and other states for the taxonomy, so it is expected 22. 12. It's gonna happen. So the motion for a resolution is fine, only the resolution should have come sometime in 2018, is fulfilled. I'd be happy if you'd listened to it this way and got the right information. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand you're not suggesting a new point of rank? I wish you a good afternoon and we will now continue with the speech of the Minister in the demise of Karel Havlíček with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, before I make a proposal for the inclusion of one particular point, allow me only to respond very quickly to the Prime Minister and to the motion for a resolution which is in principle okay, but it is a little bit after the Cimrmanov region, it is too late and later than needed, because at this point, it seems, and it may be one of the greatest achievements of the Czech Republic over the last few years, so that 22. 12. Most likely, the taxonomy will be recognised, as we have proposed, as we have been promoting it, especially with France in recent months, it effectively puts off one of the biggest problems that we would face in the coming years for almost one generation, and that is the building of resources, stable resources, which are the main tool for us not to get into the situation that Europe has come to in recent months - because undoubtedly one of the reasons for the energy crisis is that new resources are being built up without abandoning resources existing in a reasonable timetable and replacing resources with stable new ones. The core will serve us for this, but it will take 20 years, perhaps a little less, fifteen, seventeen, but it is essential to build gas resources in the meantime. We have really been extremely active in recent weeks and you may have noticed that the Czech Republic and France have launched a huge media campaign across Europe. We pointed out that if taxonomy is not adopted under the so-called second delegated act according to requirements from which we did not move, such that both core and transitory gas are a sustainable source under certain conditions, so that there will be a serious problem both in terms of energy self-sufficiency and in terms of prices. The long-term objective of maintaining stable resources here can therefore be met. And if it does happen on the 22nd, I repeat, it may be one of the greatest achievements of our government as well. However, allow me now to follow up on Vice Prime Minister Schillerová and point out a point that I would like to propose as point 9, and this is the impact of the budgetary provisional on the promotion of entrepreneurship and the start-up of investment in transport infrastructure. It is my duty to draw attention to what may threaten us - and at this point let's just say exactly what is really at risk if we move in a budget make-up. [[15.50 hours]] At this point, it needs to be realized that we have covido programs in place. Those covido programs follow up on what we've been preparing here over the last two years, and in the finals, even what we paid off, for specific business entities. I would merely recapitulate the fact that support for entrepreneurs at the time of the covid was 190 billion under direct aid and 170 billion under indirect aid. It is CZK 360 billion that we have provided to business entities. Yes, I agree that, especially at the beginning, we may not have been fast enough, we did everything on the march at the beginning, we prepared information systems for this, we matched the optimal form with employers' associations. But the fact is that this support has been paid and the fact is that thanks to this support, we have saved tens of thousands of business entities, without the slightest discussion. These programs were in the gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Regional Development. It was involved in transport, agriculture and some other institutions, such as the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank or some other organizations under specific departments. However, as the individual waves were going on, as individual business programs were activated, we, of course, fine-tuned with business associations the optimal regime of these programmes, culminating in the last wave that we are still going through at the moment, which has weakened a number of business operators again, whether because of certain regime measures that we simply had to do - it was at the request of health professionals, epidemiologists and, frankly, it was done in most European countries - or simply because people were still concerned about visiting certain services, some leisure activities. This, of course, affected their operators, business entities. That is why we have started to prepare specific programmes since the half of October with business entities, but especially with their representatives, associations, which have followed up on those that were most successful. In particular, it was a compensatory bonus. Here I would like to thank both the Ministry of Finance and all Members for their approval within the House. At the same time we prepared Antivirus, its next version. Although it largely corresponds to what has already been provided, it had to be extended, which is support not only for companies but also for employees. And - and I want to get to that - two key programs of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which were tested in the spring of this year, which work very well, to which entrepreneurs have become accustomed and the business unions have modelled them with us in the present form. This is the COVID 2020 programme, 2021 and COVID - Uncovered costs. Absolutely crucial business programs, which if entrepreneurs do not get in the coming days - and when I say days, they can first get after the end of the accounting period, which is from 1 January, ideally from the beginning of January, so that they can draw them - so we get tens of thousands of business entities into considerable problems. They are entrepreneurs who have been limited by the O-N regime, that is, without the possibility of entering those who are only tested. They're businessmen who are limited by opening hours. They are entrepreneurs who have had to limit their activities because they are not visited by customers, for example in the field of culture, for example in the field of sport and logical organizations that organise sports activities or who are operators of sports facilities and the like. They are, of course, hotels, restaurants, fitness centers. But they are also, for example, bus carriers, tour bus carriers that can work at first sight, on the other hand, if schools are limited, if sports and leisure activities are limited, if travel and tourism are significantly restricted, the logical question is who they would drive and, of course, to a very small extent. So even for them, this program is, and I have to say, it's one of the most affected sectors. But there are more of those sectors. They are, of course, small craftsmen, small businessmen who have been affected by the absence of Christmas or Advent markets. For all of these, we have prepared two programmes which, in our view, can cover their costs in a very reasonable way, for a large part of them and their loss of revenue. The COVID 2020 programme, 2021, reflects the fact that if someone has an employee, they can obtain CZK 300 per head or CZK 500 per head per employee per day, provided that the decrease in sales is either 30% or 50% or more. So it's a program that's modified against the spring one, and it's more helpful in this. Probably the most monitored and most important is COVID - Uncovered costs, which we have actually taken very kindly at the moment especially to those who have been critically affected since June and precisely since July 2021. For anyone who has a decrease in sales by more than 30 per cent, it is a cost reimbursement of 40 per cent. For anyone who has a decrease in sales by 50 per cent or more, this is 70% of the cost reimbursement. Most importantly: for the smallest ones, for micro-enterprises, we were able to use the maximumist programme in agreement with the European Commission. When someone proves that they have a proven drop in sales of 80 per cent or more - but I note that it is for those of up to 10 employees - it can be compensated in terms of its costs, up to 90 per cent. But to be precise, it's not up to 90 percent, as someone grabbed my word, it's 90 percent. So it's not 70, 80, or anything else. It is simply entitled to 90% reimbursement of costs, from July 2021 to December 2021. To put it simply, if someone was active in the Christmas market and can't operate, he can't sell his products there and before he made them, such as Christmas decorations or something like that, it's actually worth it. This has been negotiated for several weeks with all the business associations that are active in this area, and I must say that we have agreed - although it has been difficult negotiations - that it is balanced so that it should really be like a lifeline for all who are affected, but also for those who are affected less. Why do I say that? It is imperative that this start to draw from January. Unfortunately, the budgetary provisional is of the nature that it does not allow - and I cannot imagine that entrepreneurs would not have the opportunity for January, February, or even March to have programs that have been responsibly prepared, which are written down, which are already in the form of a visa challenge, but of course we cannot write them as a challenge at the moment, because there is no budget cover for it, so I cannot imagine that entrepreneurs could not draw them. Variant how to do this is more. It is, of course, up to the next government, but it is my duty to draw attention to this and to ask that this be dealt with as acutely as we have had to deal with a similar demand over the last two years and a quarter of a year. Yes, we were not prepared for this budgetaryly, we too had to do it at the last minute, we too had to include new and new programmes. Moreover, we were under pressure from the opposition - and objectively speaking, justified by the pressure of the opposition - which wanted us to be even faster. And even, remember, you told us to give even more resources to entrepreneurs. At this point, everything is ready and I believe that, as we have been criticized by the opposition, the new ruling coalition will take into account that entrepreneurs need these resources and that nothing will be extended. The second area, which is also affected by the budgetary make-up in the area of the economy, is projects in transport infrastructure. It's not just in transport infrastructure, it's in public infrastructure and in public buildings, in public investment. As far as traffic is concerned, that's where it's most visible. Because the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure will have it next year, if nothing major changes - and I believe that the future coalition will deliver what it promised in the pre-election debates, and that it will continue with the enormous pace of transport investment that we have made in recent years, especially in the last two years, I merely note that we have raised by 50 percent - and that the amount of 130.5 billion will be respected. [[16.00 hours]] However, in order to be respected, projects need to be initiated because they are hundreds and hundreds of projects and some of them are running, there should not be a problem even in the budgetary provisional, on the other hand, some of them have to start and have to start from January, February and, of course, March and so on. If we take a break in this, there is a risk that the plan will not come true, and not only that the plan will not come true, it is the numerical issue, the second thing is that constructions will not be completed as planned, because a few months delay is the problem in building investment, the problem is that in February and March, contracts are already being signed quite actively, so that they can start construction from March. This would be a big problem, because it is extremely good that we managed to move expenditure into transport infrastructure, an amount of 131 billion, rounding it up, is more than twice as good as it was ten years ago. I merely note that the budget in 2011 was 61 billion, while the budget in 2021 was 128 billion, and in 2012 it was 66 billion and 2022, exactly 10 years later, it is 131.5 or 132 billion rounded up. As a result, we were able to launch a number of key buildings that have been waiting for years. Between 2011 and 2014, 200 metres of motorways started annually as a result of no construction preparation until 2011. We have been preparing constructions since 2013, 2014 in particular, and thanks to this we were able to gain this growth ever since 2017, 2018 and it culminated in 2021, when we started 70 kilometers of new motorways and when we completed 90 kilometers of motorways, whether completely new, or here is also the modernized D1. That was never historically here. And if it is to be linked to this, it is necessary to start building or start construction from the beginning of next year. It is far from just investment in road construction, of course it is investment in railways, water structures and the like. There are more of these buildings in the railway sector, and it needs to be realised that these investments are not just related to the railway infrastructure, to railway stations that have been built around 117 in the last year, I mean of course they have built up as renovated, which is about twice as much as it was in the previous years, or securing crossings, which is the key thing for increasing road safety and rail safety, where 30 to 50 people die every year, and when we raised it up to 200 crossings a year. I'm just saying that 500 were originally supposed to be by 2027, we pulled it off, and it's gonna be at the end of 2022. So it invests in unprecedented ways in railway infrastructure, in railway stations, in railway safety, in road infrastructure, and resources are provided, and that is important to say, and I believe that regional representatives see it this way at the moment, providing resources for twos and threes. Every year we give CZK 4 billion from 2015, and I only take it from the national budget, with other resources added from European budgets, from European sources. We have already put the 4 billion in the budget last year, which is extremely important for the regions that need the money, and I believe that their pressure will be the same as it was for our government, and I understand that, because, of course, they have to be built in those regions and they can't do without the money, they are strategically important to them. We were under tremendous pressure to provide those resources in advance in terms of putting them in the budget, and not discussing them during the calendar year, so that those regions would learn in the summer that they could, let's say, earn three, four, five billion. It was the four on average. That's why we put it in the budget last year, and the regions knew that they could handle the money, and they had already started preparing their projects, started logically signing and implementing them. Similarly, we have already put it in the budget for 2022, so the budget proposed by us is 4 billion fixed for the regions, and it is clear that if we go to the budget commission, the regions cannot, of course, launch the projects. It would be a shame and I hope that the regions in this will be equally consistent. So it's to the roads and railroads and other parts of the transport infrastructure. Once again, I would like to call for this very much not to gamble with these expenditures, which are extremely important, whether it be to keep entrepreneurs who are affected by covid in certain problems, because entrepreneurs don't care which government has suggested it to them and which gives it to them. Of course, each of them has some preferences in terms of who wants to be there, but the other thing is, if they agree with one government to do so, they expect the other government to follow up. It would have been different if the new government had come up with the idea that it didn't want to pay entrepreneurs anything. I do not believe that this will be the case, and even the fact that the compensation bonus has been approved here, even in a better way for entrepreneurs, because it has been combined and can be used both for tradesmen and the tradesmen can still use the other programs for this compensation bonus, or it was not possible to combine it before, so I believe that the same helpfulness will also be in COVID 2021, COVID - Uncovered costs, but then it is purely that it must be managed quickly. Everything is ready. All you have to do is challenge. And as for transport constructions and transport infrastructure, if we had slept in this, and if we hadn't managed to invest CZK 131 billion next year, but it's not just about the number, it's about it being the buildings that are planned and the ones where the projects have to start, so I think it would be an extremely unfortunate step forward for any new government, because in this case it would have come back to all of us, and at a time when we need to invest, at a time when the Czech National Bank is making loans more expensive, at a time when we need to maintain a healthy level of investment, we would have done exactly the opposite of making it less. I believe this will not happen, and thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u15	Thank you, Minister. I'd just like to ask you to give me a draft of a point in writing so that we don't delay. Thank you. Now it is signed up for the proposal of the Minister in the resignation of Klára Dostálová. Madam Secretary, please. Just to remind you, Mr. Richard Brabec, Minister Metnar, Minister Adam Vojtěch, Mr. Aleš Juchelka, will then prepare for the resignation, and then I will be signed in. Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for the inclusion of item number 10, namely the effects of the provisional on housing promotion and subsidy programmes. We've all heard from all kinds of experts at the time of the covid, we've heard it through coalitions, oppositions, and so on that the right step is to invest in the crisis. The greater sadness in me is that the budgetary provisional is precisely against this proposal. What we all wanted, because they really don't understand the budgetary make-up and investment. What we're going to finance within the resorts is just traffic, and given that it's going to be one-twelfth, then I'm going to get to the numbers as it would look at the Ministry of Regional Development, and I believe it's going to trigger this bitter smile on your face, because it's clear that the only victims of the budget commissionory within the Ministry of Regional Development will be municipalities, they'll be cities, they'll be regions, and they'll be a non-profit sector, which, of course, is very intensively drawing on the Ministry of Local Development's grant funds. [[16.10 hours]] To take a picture of how it is actually at the Ministry of Regional Development, it is Chapter 17, where more than 90 percent of all expenditures are subsidies that are provided either from the European Union's resources or from the national budget and drawers within these programmes at the Ministry of Regional Development are municipalities, are cities, are regions and it is a non-profit sector. Of course, they're schools, kindergartens and so on. For a better understanding of the situation in which the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry for Regional Development's subsidy programmes will find itself in the budget commission, I might try to recapitulate what it is. We've always tried to accommodate all the mayors, and they've always been right about asking us to administer in the winter months. That is why the Ministry of Regional Development is launching grant programmes in October, early October, so that applicants have time to prepare their projects. During December and mid-January, it is administered so that the decision can be signed during February. It's not gonna happen. Although we have increased - and I would like to thank you for this, because I have managed to increase the Ministry of Regional Development's budget even this year - so that we can have money available immediately for recipients right after the New Year. But basically, we're in a big trap by making the budget commission because by negotiating the money so that we can sign the decision as quickly as possible, it fell into unused spending. And what will happen to unused expenditure in the budget make-up? Well, you can't draw them. This means only an idea of the Ministry's subsidy programmes, whether they are European resources, again, which are in unused expenditure, because they are, of course, advance payments, so it is more than CZK 28 billion. 28 billion crowns! This money, of course, serves to invest in municipalities and regions, to invest in local roads, to invest in transport, in the roads of the second and third classes, in terminals, in bike paths, in schools, in kindergartens, in homes of children and young people, in - I don't know - the classroom, that is, basic art schools, into monuments, that is, into culture. There will be no such thing, because no official can sign an uncovered decision. This means that it will be expected to wait for three months before the budget is approved. We are somewhere in March, only then all the applicants, only when they have it black and white that they received the subsidy, they start to tender, they start to tender for two, three, four months, well, and the construction season starts in September and October. Well, they're gonna be really grateful. In addition, of course, we need to realise that we are here during the period when we managed to negotiate the so-called National Recovery Plan, but the National Recovery Plan - and Minister Havlíček has already mentioned it - has very limited deadlines. There really is a need to prepare the terms very quickly. And what I'm happy for the Ministry is that they've managed to negotiate the resources for the brownfields. A huge problem in cities, municipalities and regions. For example, we will finance the revitalization of Terezín, the revitalization of the military fortress Josefov. However, both mayors of these cities asked us for help with the project preparation. We had the money ready - unfortunately, the mayors will have to wait until after the budget commission, because they cannot be signed again. Of course, these cities are in a big trap, and I repeat it again, that the previous governments really went crazy when the billion-dollar assets put in the management of small cities that can never be enough budget for that. As part of the draft budget of the Ministry for Regional Development, money for the digitization of building management is also included in the National Recovery Plan. These aren't small resources, we're talking about less than 2 billion crowns here, and I think digitalization really should be such a flagship for all of us. That's what we want in the 21st century, what we all want to achieve and prove. Once again, of course, selection procedures are under way to meet the deadlines laid down by law, that is to say, until mid-July 2023, and now at the beginning we will be at least three to four months late. I wonder how poor colleagues will deal with this at the Ministry. It should be noted that, compared to 2021, it is precisely all the funds that are budgeted for the Ministry's subsidy programmes, whether European or national, that are in unused expenditure. Unused expenditure - I repeat it again - means that it cannot be used in the budgetary provisional, and all applicants, for example within the European funds, will have to pre-finance their projects themselves if they do not want to stop those projects. However, it has always been our government's attempt that mayors do not have to take large loans from banks so that they do not have to prefinance so much that ongoing funding actually works. Unfortunately, the first months will not be possible and the first invoices will not be paid until the Ministry has approved the budget. The main activities of the Ministry of Regional Development include regional development or, for example, promotion of tourism. There will be no funding for these agendas either. And if we look at the pitiful, pitiful looking tourism after the covide era, for example, today I received a letter from the Association of Hotels and Restaurants asking too much to extend the vouchers to the spa. The more I regret that the Ministry has the money, we managed to arrange a temporary framework until 30 June, but unfortunately, we have a budget provisional. This means that the first decision, if the new government ever ensures the extension of COVID - Spa, will be at the end of March, at the beginning of April. Actually, the public support, the temporary framework is until 30 June. So how many months are left for our spa to pump? We all know math - about two months. I am very sorry that we have managed to negotiate support for sports infrastructure with cities and municipalities, we have approved the programme by the government, everyone is expecting its announcement, but of course there will be no such thing in the provisional budget because we do not know whether or not the resources will remain there. Support for the reconstruction of public buildings, one of the programs that is of great interest. We even negotiated with the Ministry of Finance to expand this not only for municipalities to 3,000 inhabitants, but also for municipalities to 10,000 inhabitants. At the same time, we have a programme that is through the State Fund to support investments for the reconstruction of brownfields. There are also statutory cities that, of course, call for the Ministry that it is unfair that the subsidy programs are only for the small ones, that even statutory cities have their dilapidated buildings and need to draw. Well, they can't, they can, of course, only since the middle of the year, lose one construction season. It's very unpleasant, of course. At the same time, European funds are bound by the so-called N+3 rule. Here I would just like to say that because of the fact that our government has really pumped so well, we are overdrawn for 2022. This means that there is a rule of N+3 today, even for 2022, that most programmes are implemented except for the Prague Operational Programme and, of course, 85 percent still is Business and Innovation, but also there, of course, it will be difficult for colleagues to catch up if they have a three-month slide at the start. The Ministry of Regional Development also includes the Mountain Service. We're having a winter season, we all want something to happen to us so the paramedics can take care of us with the best technique. Unfortunately, it is linked to the subsidy programme of the Ministry of Regional Development, so even the technique for Mountain Service for winter months will not be possible to be taken, cannot be signed contract. That means they'll get the new machines when spring comes. Well, I'm sure that's worth it. As far as the total volume is concerned, except, of course, regional development and tourism, which actually gets so much done, is within the competence of the Ministry of Regional Development and housing support. How sad it is to find out that what young people actually wrote to us - we had a questionnaire survey: they all asked the state to increase government loans. We complied, we did a new program, we increased from 2 million to a family house up to 3.5 million, at the apartment to 3 million. We also have a cooperative share, so that even Prague's applicants, Prague's young people can benefit from cooperative construction. We raised the limits for the reconstruction of our apartment from 600,000 to 750,000 and gave them, of course, a longer maturity from 25 years to 35 years. Everyone is waiting for the date of 3 January, and unfortunately, I have to tell everyone that on 3 January, colleagues from the State Fund will be happy to advise them, but that is all. Contracts can only be concluded with them after the budget has been approved, because it is necessary to realise that the State Budget is also linked to the State Investment Support Fund budget. [[16.20 hours]] When we look at the State Investment Support Fund, it's not just our own housing. I firmly believe that until at least one twelfth, when I tell you the numbers, the tornado limits will be reached. We help people after the tornado, we help individuals to rebuild their homes. We help municipalities, regions, cities affected in that territory to deliver their projects. They will submit the projects, but they can only get decisions after the budget has been approved. Indeed, budgetary make-up and subsidies are things that are mutually exclusive. And I would like to ask again and appeal to everyone whether there would really be a better way to approve the budget and to make an amendment. Of course, I understand the ambition of the new coalition and so on, but in the budgetary provisional, those who are not at all responsible for this will really pay for it and who, on the contrary, are trying to live up to the commitment that we want to invest out of the crisis. As far as the video programs are concerned, I am, of course, constantly being approached by travel agents, travel agencies, because arrival tourism is simply passé. There is no arrival tourism in the Czech Republic because of the traffic lights of course. Travel agencies need help, even if we save some resources in unused spending to help them, there is nothing we can do in the context of provisionals. And now it's just a smiley look for you, a bitter smiley look at how it is. You can draw one twelfth of this year's budget commission. This year, if, of course, I do not take European funds, because they are in unused expenditure, I will not take state funding, which is in unused expenditure, but I will take purely the state budget as it was prepared, are CZK 2.5 billion, CZK 2.5 billion within the budget of the Ministry for Local Development, one twelfth is CZK 108 million, sorry - CZK 215 million to say exactly. When we look at how much the Ministry has to spend on salaries, because, as I said at the beginning, we're giving more than 90 percent in investment, that means everything else, that means cybersecurity security, all the IT systems, whether it's a monitoring system, a national electronic tool, and so on, all these systems, so the Ministry needs about CZK 1 billion to operate. All these other things in those 28 billion are investments, they're grant funds. 1 billion is about 100 million crowns, less than 100 million crowns. So if you subtract it, then for the investments, if I take the 215 versus what we need to run, there's 100 million crowns left. I don't think it's a message that will please the communities that will please the cities and please the regions. Please reconsider, it's a shame. We just got a pretty good start, the Czech Republic has now improved its draw. We're in 11th place, we're really doing very well. We are doing very well with the preparation of the new programming period, even we were very commended within the European Commission, because we are among those states in the framework of the top that are ready, the Partnership Agreement is already in formal dialogue, which means we are really expecting the approval of European programmes as soon as possible so that we can start drawing. And now, I don't know if I'm gonna order the ministry to keep my colleagues from trying so hard, because they can't do anything in a budget commission, and it's actually gonna be enough to announce those programs in May, June, because they can't actually conclude any contracts in a budget commission anyway. I'm so sorry I have to finish my performance with words that I've been better. I hope that we will learn from this and try at least if our proposals do not pass today so that the budgetary provisional is really as short as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u17	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. I would like to ask you to bring me a draft point in writing. Thank you. The Minister will prepare himself for the resignation of Richard Brabec with priority rights for the draft programme. And before there's a speaker's desk, I'll read an apology. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes between 15 and 18.00 for reasons of work. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u18	Thanks for the word. Madam President, dear colleagues, I will be more brief because it is possible to follow up very well on what my colleagues have said, whether the Vice Prime Minister or the Vice Prime Minister or now the Minister, because the same can be applied to the environment in pale blue or pink, or what colour you choose. From today's programme, as I understand it, the proposal to delete the point concerning the State Environmental Fund and its budget, with an argument that was also on the Committee on the Environment, needed to be discussed by the new government, because I rather consider the specific comments made to the committee to be representative, because they were clearly explained there. I believe that they were not the right reason why the budget of the State Environmental Fund was not approved. There was a clear argument that the new government wanted to adopt it in connection with the state budget. And here we have to say that on the one hand, the new government has the right to do so, but on the other hand, the risks that have already been mentioned here in other chapters need to be taken into account. And what I'm saying is, of course, even in terms of the environment and our investments, it's not a bun on the shop, or it's nothing that can be easily overlooked. It will probably not surprise you, and I have already mentioned this several times here that we have managed to negotiate for the Department of the Environment and also for the State Fund of the Environment from European money absolutely record amounts, i.e. I will pass on the new Minister's budget in the coming days really in astronomical amounts, which go primarily to municipalities, towns and municipalities, and it must be said that, although it will actually take, say, a few months, I would say in large quotation marks only a few months, it has absolutely concrete impacts, because for example, from the expenditure of the State Fund of the Environment, which is in the budget for next year, it is around 30 billion. Specifically, it should be CZK 33.6 billion of the State Environmental Fund expenditure for next year. There are a number of chapters and parts that are threatened by the budgetary commission. For example, these are at least hundreds of millions of CZK per sewerage and water supply for dozens of municipalities where interim payments are at risk, the announcement of calls from the Modernization Fund is at risk, it has already fallen here today, when the Modernization Fund will be the main source of money for low-emission energy, low-emission heating, industry and other areas. Also, and not least, money from the National Recovery Plan, which accounts for more than CZK 9 billion for the next period, is at risk. The main components of the National Recovery Plan are the chapter Renovation of Buildings and Air Protection, which means that it is money that should finance the New Green Savings Programme in the future as well as boiler subsidies. This means that the real flagship that tens of thousands of people are waiting for, tens of thousands of our citizens, so that they can exchange their old boiler, when a very successful programme of boiler subsidies will continue precisely from the National Recovery Plan, and of course also thousands of concrete actions to heat up, to reduce the energy performance of houses, whether residential or family, these are the investments which, of course, currently high energy prices are even more important than ever, so this money and its drawing will be clearly at risk right within the budget makeshift. And that's something you can't miss and you can't not say. [[16.30 hours]] So it's not an alibi, it's not an excuse. This is about the new government realizing, in this case, of course, the House, where the coalition has a majority, that it is now not just some harrassment here or a thunderbolt of weapons or just some rhetoric, but that these are specific impacts on thousands and perhaps tens of thousands of people whose financing projects - and again I say especially for cities, municipalities and citizens - are at risk of the programme not being approved, that the budget will not be approved and that, of course, it will only be possible to draw it, as has already been said by colleagues and colleagues, within one twelfth, and some of these new challenges cannot be launched at all. If it were in some past years, if we were just talking about tens of millions of crowns in quotation marks, it might be relatively marginal. But it is at this time that record money that our government has managed to negotiate in the framework of European funding, i.e. whether it is the Modernization Fund or the Operational Programme Environment, such as boiler subsidies or national funds, that has specific implications. So I want to point that out, and it needs to be said here with full seriousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Minister. I'm just gonna make sure that you suggested a new point, or did you just say what you wanted to say? [[The Minister agrees.]] Very good, thank you. The President Andrej Babiš apologizes for today's work. And now the Minister has signed up for the resignation of Lubomír Metnar. You have the floor, Minister, and Minister Adam Vojtěch will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot respond to this debate, which will be the impact of the provisional budget on the Ministry of Defence's department on the military, namely the defence of this country. Some things have, of course, been said here, but I would like to emphasise them again and accentuate that, in the case of budgetary commissions, the impossibility of awarding a public contract or concluding contracts will occur, especially for large projects implemented by the Ministry of Defence's department in the context of the development of its capabilities. As has already been said, the various departments in the period of the budgetary commission will receive one twelfth of the budget initially approved each month under the rules. It is not possible to start large projects, public contracts, in the budgetary provisional because when they are launched it is necessary to have cover for the whole project. For large projects in the Ministry of Defence environment, this may be an amount higher than one twelfth of the old budget after deduction of the mandatorial expenses, so the coverage would not be sufficient in a given month and it will not be possible to enter into or conclude a contract for them - so the same problem for colleagues from other ministries as for the Ministry of Defence resort in connection with defence. In the Ministry of Defence environment, there will therefore be significant delays with large projects, as these can only be started after the new budget has been approved, i.e. after the fall of the provisional budget. After that, however, there will be another part, and I would also like to emphasise the so-called administrative part, when the data for the budgetary provisional period will have to be uploaded into the system first and then further steps can be taken. I can't do this without it. And it's going to be a period when the data won't be online, because they won't be in a system where they're going to have to fill in hard. The question is to what extent it is possible to continue the unfinished but ongoing projects during the period of the budgetary provisional. For these projects, negotiations with suppliers need to be linked to clear funding parameters. At a time when the budgetary provisional will apply, the form of the new budget cannot be predicted, so it will not be possible to take any other significant steps in already ongoing projects. So, as I'm saying, it's going to have these impacts on the defense department, on the military, and ultimately defense, and quickly acquire the capabilities that we've committed ourselves to within the alliance. Now, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a slightly different perspective when I would comment with my several years of experience at the Ministry of Defence's Resort on possible cuts or possible cuts in the Ministry of Defence's budget. In view of the good economic situation, I have had the Ministry of Defence's budget drawn up as a maximum for investment in recent years. There was a need to catch up on the deficit from past years. In view of the increasing trajectory of budgets, including the budgetary perspective, the budget for 2022 was also drawn up until 2024. If there was a need to shorten the budget of 2022 from the existing CZK 93.5 billion, this would result in the destabilisation of all investment plans. Given that many investment projects are multi-annual, one's budget cuts fundamentally affect the following years' plans. It is the destruction of a base that depends on the reality of the plans for subsequent years, or would create a high level of risk when drawing up these multiannual plans. It has to be said that it is not possible to substantially reduce the mandatorial expenditure. It's clear to all, we have to pay these people, we have to pay them for the work they're doing. Likewise, the area of other current expenditures is almost at the minimum level at the Ministry of Defence to ensure the necessary training of troops, the operational capacity of technology or, for example, the financing of so much necessary health care at the moment through a contribution to military hospitals. Any cuts or cuts would have to be made mainly in the area of investment. In the army, in addition to the Ministry of Defence's Ministry of Defence's investment plan for 2022, which amounts to CZK 31,3 billion, there are already more than 20 billion under contractual obligations. We would have to cancel all or part of the investments that are unnegotiated, and this would, of course, have dire consequences for further developments and for plans based on strategic documents that have been approved. And I don't have to talk long here, it would be - a connecting technique that is so necessary within the framework of interoperability within the allies, a technical evaluation of pandurs, means of command and control, well a whole series of projects would simply have to either partially or completely cancel. [[16.40 hours]] At the same time, budget cuts at this time can lead to potentially ineffective expenditures. This would be both a strategic investment and a normal restoration of assets. At the same time, some investments may be tied up in time, and in such a short time it will not be possible to resynchronise these investments, as is currently set up in these plans. I mean, in nominal terms, a decline in 2022 by any reduction would mean a drop below 2021, with a GDP ratio of 1.41 percent in 2021, and in the event of a reduction, you can imagine what that would mean, what a signal would be sent to our allies, when, at a time when we are judged to be the seventh best country with the fastest-growing defense budget, what a signal would be to our partners, to our allies. I also want to say that it is a big question, or it would be a big question to continue recruiting soldiers at a time when the military has the greatest trust of citizens, where it helps wherever it is needed, and when there is a huge interest in service in the military. So, ladies and gentlemen, I thought it was necessary to tell you and draw your attention to the risks from the point of view of the Ministry of Defence and Defence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Minister. Minister Adam Vojtěch is now registered with priority rights and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, I would also like to comment on the subject of the provisional budget and the impact of this step on the health department. You must know that the Ministry of Health at this time is the Ministry, which is most exposed when it comes to resolving the crisis associated with the covid-19 pandemic. We have tried to maximize the funds that go to Czech health - if we look at the figures that are from four years ago, when 322 billion went to health in 2017, this year it is already over 550 billion crowns that go to Czech health, i.e. in four years 228,5 billion extra crowns. [[time]] I think it's a very clear signal about the preference of the health department itself. Of course, a whole series of expenditures are also coming from the state budget, and it is the money that is intended to address this crisis, and where it could indeed be that some of the essential things - such as the purchase of vaccines - could be at risk. The Czech Republic has ordered vaccines for the next period. The vaccines will occur in the coming months. Financial commitments in this direction are around CZK 900 million per month, invoices with a maturity of 30 days, and I must say that the manufacturers are very strict in this regard, that is, any delay in payment for vaccines that occurs in the Czech Republic could have quite fatal consequences that the producers would actually supply the vaccine with delays, which, given the situation in which we find ourselves, when we really need to inoculate everyone, whether in terms of primary vaccination or strengthening doses, could cause major problems in the organisation and logistics of the whole system. This is really something that needs to be seen in the context of the expenditure that awaits us next year. The Ministry of Health has received a total of CZK 23 billion in the state budget that has been proposed, which is actually going to the health department itself, and from this very large part is money for the purchase of vaccines. So here I'd just like to ask that it doesn't really happen that there will be a delay in the payments for vaccines, when the invoices actually have a maturity of 30 days and the maturity is very, very strict. Other matters relating to payments linked to this crisis concern financing of the Smart Quarantine project. These are often very ad hoc expenditures associated, for example, with the strengthening of tracking, meaning the involvement of other operators or the solution of sequencing. We have a sequencing system where you know that we have an omicron option here, where we are planning to significantly increase the number of sequential samples at the moment, which is the money coming from the state budget, and we can expect that the omicron option will actually be in the top priority of the next few weeks in terms of covid positive sample sequencing, and the sequencing centers will undoubtedly need funding. Here, too, I would really like to ask that any provisional or cuts do not have an impact on the system of financing sequencing centres, because it could actually retaliate if sufficient samples were not sequencing, that the Omicron variant could be transported without us knowing about this. That's another thing that's very important. Another area is the support of paramedics. This year we approved vouchers for the medical spa, CZK 8,000 per medic. It was used by paramedics from hospitals, where they cared and continue to care for covido patients. This programme ends at the end of the year. If necessary, and I think it will be necessary to support the paramedics again, a new program must be written. A new program for spa, it is not possible to list for health professionals within the framework of the budgetary commission. So once again, please, no matter how much we think of our paramedics, who are actually exhausted by another wave of covid, they have to take care of patients in intensive care units, the work is very demanding. The Medical Spa program ends at the end of the year, health professionals expect it to be rewritten next year, and if there is a delay, I think it would be very negatively perceived that they will not get to this rehabilitation care that I think they deserve very much. So even here, I'd like to ask that maximum attention be paid to this. We're communicating with the union, we're communicating with the paramedics, and they're expecting the program to be rewritten so that those who haven't made it to the spa get to them in the next year. Other things that are very important are investments. We have also tried to support investment in health care within the state budget, but also within the European funds. Next year, national money will cost CZK 8 billion for investment. It starts with React, React-EU, which is a program where there are 22 billion crowns in health care. I think you know very well, for the instrumental equipment, hospitals will draw these resources. There is a very binding and strict deadline for the exhaustion of the funds by the end of 2023, which means a very tight schedule. In this case, too, it must be borne in mind that the Ministry of Health is the one who issues the decision to grant the subsidy. The Ministry of Health cannot issue a decision to grant a subsidy in a budgetary commission, it would be against the law. So once again, it is necessary to think about not delaying these investments, which relate to the purchase of instruments and the like. I think our health care needs investment, it's absolutely crucial. We have tried to support these investments, and delay in this regard would certainly not be for the benefit of the cause. [[16.50 hours]] Other things are residential places. They are also paid from the state budget. There is a subsidy for the education of young doctors. Even here there could be problems, if these funds could not be spent, funds could not be increased to residential places that are crucial for paying for the specialization education of young doctors. For example, in primary care, the education of future practitioners really depends on residential places. There are many things that have to be financed. Among other things, the payment for state insured persons increases significantly, which you know very well, by CZK 14 billion next year. I am glad that it succeeded because it is another pillow for health care that is plagued by the crisis associated with pandemic covid-19. Here too, it will undoubtedly be necessary to think that additional funds for health care will have to be spent. I think it is indisputable that it will have to be decided on a further increase in the payment of state insured persons due to the costs we have in relation to the covid, and it is not just the vaccines. It is, of course, continuing to test to a rather significant extent. Some 90,000 to 100,000 people are tested every day, between 90,000 and 100,000 PCR tests, which, of course, are huge costs for health insurance companies. New covid medications are coming in. These are also things that will have to be paid, whether they are monoclonal antibodies, where we talk about hundreds of millions of crowns, billions of crowns that go to purchase monoclonal antibodies, as well as new antivirals that are already going to the Czech Republic. The first antiviral molnupiravir comes in this week. And in the following period, just in the first quarter of next year, another antiviral medicine should come from Pfizer, which seems to be very effective. Again, it will be additional costs that are linked to the resolution of the covid-19 crisis. So I just want to point out in this regard that the Ministry of Health, which is responsible for the solution, and it is primarily the Ministry of Health, the resolution of this crisis, together with, of course, health insurance companies, with hospitals, has a very significant cost to this connection. And I very much ask that this be taken into account so as not to endanger the purchase of vaccines, so as not to jeopardise the financing of the Smart Quarantine project, so as not to jeopardise the financing of the route, so as not to jeopardise the financing of the purchase of medicines and the like. These are all fundamental things that must be borne in mind, if the budgetary provisional is approved, namely if any cuts are to be made in this department. On the contrary, I think the Health Department deserves maximum support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Minister. Mr Aleš Juchelka has now signed up for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u24	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. I have a proposal for a point on the impact of the budgetary provisional in the social field, and I would like to propose it as a 9th point on this 4th meeting before item 10, which I will conclude with. If I take it a little bit from wide, we are constantly convinced in the media that it will be saved from this state budget of CZK 78 billion, that the deficit will somehow decrease, but on the other hand, I have not heard any future minister say in any conversation: "This will be my resort, I - such as Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová - say that I will voluntarily give up 10 billion from my budget, or colleague Gazdík on education, that he will say: "Yes, this amount can be deleted from mine. I haven't heard that before. On the contrary, I hear that all future ministers will fight for their ministries. For example, when I was listening to an interview with the future Minister of Science, Research and Innovation, Helena Langšádlová, she said that, on the contrary, the future Prime Minister of Fiala has the promised full amount and maybe the budget for science, research and innovation will increase. So maybe in a little while, the future finance minister will be here, too, or I can see behind me the economic expert of ODS Honza Skopeček, that he will explain all this beautifully to us, how the future government means it, because words and actions really go very far. We have heard before the elections, and it may save ourselves that it will be released if the five-wheelers win and put together the government, 13 percent of the officials, which is about 60,000 jobs. But on the other hand, the three ministries themselves make it seem like they don't mess around. On the one hand, we'll release the officials, but on the other hand, we'll have three extra ministries. When we talk about the provisional budget, it is likely that civil servants' salaries will be frozen, which will not be able to be raised in any way for three months. On the other hand, we do not want to freeze Members' salaries here in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure we haven't wanted that since January. [[We don't want that!]] So now that I return a little bit to the social area that is threatening us there, on the other hand, I have to say that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is well prepared, especially with regard to the first two months, January and February, it is ready to increase energy prices and other challenges relating to social policy. I think that the government - the one who is still sitting behind me - has treated well precisely that it will reflect energy prices as they rise, as I said, in January and February with various measures. Every month, however, the ministries will have to ask one twelfth of their not only mandatorial expenses precisely to argue each month with the Ministry of Finance. And, of course, there is no risk of raising the pensions that we have increased in terms of valorisation or beyond valorisation. That's what I'd like to assure all seniors. The financing of social services is not at risk either, because at the beginning of each year it is always covered by the borrowing of the region and the regional authorities. But the problem is that, for example, money from the state budget is in the regions, and it is more than CZK 19 billion, it will appear in March, April, but at this point, thanks to the budget makeshift, the regions can expect it sometime in July. So how will this money be dealt with here under the budget make-up budget in the regional budgets? Well, of course I'd like that answer, which is why I'm opening this point right here. The time is turbulent, and I am very glad that the government has managed to find solutions within the framework of state social support in the context of increased normative housing costs since 2022, when the housing allowance will be the amount that will take into account the increase in energy. It's not gonna be such a problem with the housing supplement, because that's where it's always counted in place and in the usual time. In the last quarter of 2021, energy prices, in particular gas and electricity, have risen sharply, which is likely to continue at the beginning of next year. A particularly big problem will be for households that have contracts with energy suppliers without any long-term fixation. The announced jumping increase in household energy costs cannot be addressed by the government's regulation for the annual normative costs, because this is due during that year to prices that are always supplied by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but it will have to be, and this is already being prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, a young, small novelty that will address the state's social support. And here's the problem where, for example, we're actually going to approve this amendment to state social support. After all, we have today and tomorrow's last House day this year, maybe sometime next January, and we have to go through de facto, if it is not a legislative emergency law, some legislative circle, so we could somehow bail out this increase in energy prices to citizens here in the middle of the year. So what is the plan of the emerging coalition for, for example, this legislative path for state social support? The House won't be here till the end of the year. [[17,00 hours]] In general, what about energy prices, I ask, and do you have a vision, for example, to strengthen the extraordinary immediate assistance that should be one of the tools where citizens can ask for help from the labour offices in raising energy prices? We also have standards, fortunately it will not touch certain standards, such as Antivirus, which was approved during the last month, but is at most 1.5 billion in Antivirus. But if we're in the middle of some kind of covid crisis, we're going to have to back up some way the wages of those who use Antivirus, so when we're out of CZK 1.5 billion, it's over, and there won't be any more help. Such a program cannot be supplemented, restored, re-set, simply and simply we cannot help these people. Does the emerging coalition have a plan? That is what I would like to hear, therefore, Madam President, I propose to include a new point, namely the impact of the budgetary provisional on the social area, and as I said, this is a 9-point point right here at this 4th ongoing meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening, thank you Mr Juchelek for his speech. I have noted the new point on which I am going to vote. The next enrollment is Mrs Kovářová. Madam Vice-President, you have the floor. Then I just want to ask for order: I'm registering Ondřej Benešík's application. I want to ask if... No, you're not reporting for a debate. Thank you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we have here on the table a proposal from the Minister in resignation to discuss her budget plan for 2022. It's an extremely bad idea. Let's reject it. There are a number of reasons. The main one is absolutely simple - the budget plan for next year is extremely bad. We have heard and we will probably hear a number of arguments about why to accept the draft state budget from the Ministry of Finance workshop and Minister Alena Schillerová. [[Noise in the hall.]] They're all as bad or even worse than the design itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u27	I'm sorry, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to ask you, if you have a need to deal with something, to leave you in the lobby so that the Vice-President can move forward in peace with her proposal. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. All proposals are as bad or even worse than the draft budget itself. I'll sum them up briefly. Firstly, we have heard here, and we may yet hear that the budgetary provisional is irresponsible. Secondly, it is said that this is the best draft budget for next year that can be made. Thirdly, we need a budget that will lead us out of the crisis, and the Minister's proposal in demise is supposedly just like that. I mean, about the first one. We lived with the commission in 1999 and 2000. Nothing infinitely dramatic happened. Of course it's not a good signal to the markets, which is why we need to communicate well, why we're going into the provisionals. Our aim is to prepare a more economical and economically responsible budget. The markets will understand and accept it. The other argument. I'll just say a few numbers. 2020: 367 billion. 2021: over 400 billion, maybe 450 billion. And 2022: a deficit of 377 billion. If we accept the Ministry of Finance's proposal, it will mean 1 trillion and almost 200 billion deficits in three years. Yes, of course, we've had bad times, but that means a new debt to every single citizen of our country over CZK 100,000. You just can't go on like this. And the third argument. There's no way another furious spending will lead us out of the crisis. It will lead us out of the crisis when we replace micromanagement with a rational and good policy-based strategy when we offer people a reduction in administrative burdens, good and fair communication when we confidently lean on their abilities and their senses when we achieve change in political culture and in the social atmosphere. That's the way out of the crisis. And finally, a few words on the markets. In recent years, under the leadership of Andrej Babiš and Alena Schillerová, we have arrested a truly extraordinary debt axe into the body of our society. And what is the result? Let's get this straight. Poor GDP growth, which is far from replacing the devastating decline in 2020. Huge inflation, currently at 6 percent and perhaps 8 percent at the end of the year. And no one knows what it's gonna look like. Last year alone, and this year, people's savings have lost over a tenth of their purchasing power. This cannot be continued. Expensive is the government debt service that threatens to suffocate even the little signs of growth that we may see somewhere. Just open a page with the result of the issue of government bonds. In January we were somewhere at 0.9 to 1 percent, in December we are at 2.5 to 2.6 percent, and this is a huge increase in debt. This simply cannot be continued. We cannot have a deficit of 377 billion for next year. What kind of signal would that send to the markets? It'll signal that we're going to continue spending money we don't have. And what will be the answer to the markets? Further inflation, further increases in service of our already large sovereign debt, deepening imbalances and crisis. It is therefore necessary not only to reject the 377 billion deficit, but to put it out of the way. It is therefore necessary to prepare a deficit of at least CZK 300 billion, even at the cost of several months of commission. Three months of provisional with a vision of savings will do much less damage than the budget proposed by Alena Schillerová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. I want to ask if there was a proposal for the program? Thank you. Just, coworkers and colleagues, for the record. Those of you who spoke today, albeit with priority rights, so the beginning of the meeting is intended to make proposals for adjusting the meeting fall. This is not a discussion. So, for the record, even though they gave priority rights, Andrej Babiš, Richard Brabec, Lubomír Metnar, Adam Vojtěch and the Vice-President did not propose anything. I want to lead you to order so that you do not abuse the Rules of Procedure and that, if you want to speak, you have spoken properly in the debate and did not abuse the beginning of the meeting to present your views here, that is the debate. Thank you. And now I'm going to pick up the first item or, respectively, given that no one's logged in, we're going to get to the agenda, and I'm going to read the individual proposals I'm going to vote on. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, and I'll make sure they're present in the hall and ready for the vote. [[17.10 hours]] I'm registering your application for check-out. I'll check you all out and apply for a re-registration with your cards. I will gradually begin to read the individual points that govern today's draft programme. The first point is the point that was expressed on the Gremium and on which there was a consensus. The Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies proposes to include a new item on the agenda, it is House document 139, it is the Proposal for annual remuneration for the work of members of the Supervisory Board and this new item to include in the Report block, proposals and other points. I will continue to engage and wait a while for the rest of the Members and Members to arrive in the hall. I would now put to the vote on the first point, as has been said from Gremium, and it is the Draft annual remuneration for the activities of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Grant Agency, House document 139. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. It is a vote with order number 2, 186 Members and Members registered, for proposal 187, against 1. I note that the proposal of the Gremium has been approved and point The draft annual remuneration for the activities of the members of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic has been included in the News block, proposals and other points. Now I will read the proposals that were made here at the beginning, at the beginning of the meeting, and I will ask the petitioner to correct me if I do not read correctly how they have read their points. The first proposal was made by Tomio Okamura and sounds Acceleration, inflation and the threat of the economic crisis in the Czech Republic. It is a new point, and if it is voted, we will vote on its firm inclusion. Initiating vote. I ask: Who is in favour of suggesting that he press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 3, followed by 191 Members of Parliament, for 20, against 99. This proposal was rejected. We will therefore go to the second proposal, also from Tomio Okamura, and it is a new point called Emergency Measures and their impact on the protection of the health of citizens of the Czech Republic. It's a new point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this point? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 4, followed by 191 Members of Parliament, for 20, against 79. This proposal was rejected. The third point from Tomio Okamura, and it is the point of the Call to the Government of the Czech Republic on the attempt by Commissioner Helena Dalliová to cancel Christmas. It's a new point. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 5, 191 Members and Members are registered, for 22, against 76. This point has not been accepted. I'm sorry, colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, I'm going to ask for silence so that others understand. Point four. It's a point presented by Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, and this point is... it is an item on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022. It's a new point - inclusion on the program. Initiating vote. I wonder who's in favour of the proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 6, followed by 191 Members of Parliament, for proposal 87, against 101. This proposal was also rejected. Then we have some proposals from Mr Marek Benda. The first proposal is to delete item number 8, it is the House press 65 - Consent to the ratification of the Treaty between the Czech Republic and the Republic of Kosovo. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 7, followed by 191 Members of Parliament, for 124, against 1. That means we agreed to take point 8 out of today's hearing. The next proposal is that we remove item number 9 from the agenda of this meeting, it is the House's press 59 - The draft budget of the SFŽP. Initiating vote. I wonder who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 8, 192 Members and Members registered, for 124, against 65. This proposal has been approved and deleted from the programme item 9. And the third proposal by Marek Benda is to place a new point. I'll read it first, and if the proposal passes, we'll give it a solid classification. There is a proposal to include a new point, which is the resolution on the necessary role of nuclear energy in decarbonisation of the economy. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of this proposal for this item to be added to the programme? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 9, 193 Members and Members registered, for proposal 174, against 18. This proposal has been adopted and this item is included in the agenda for today's negotiations. And the second vote is a proposal for this item to be placed as the first item in today's negotiations. Initiating vote. I ask, who is in favour of proposing that this point be the first to attend today's meeting? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 10; 193 Members and Members are registered, for 173, against 19. This proposal was placed as the first item in this meeting. As I said, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš suggested nothing, and Minister Karel Havlíček suggested a new point on the inclusion of this meeting - the impact of the budgetary commission on business. I read the item. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 11, 193 Members and Members registered, for 87, against 79. This point was rejected. Mr Martin Baxa jumped into my factual comment here, but I do not see him reporting for the debate. Thank you. The next item on which I am going to vote is the proposal by Minister Dostálová, and this is the impact of the budgetary provisional on the subsidy programmes. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda for this meeting? Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 12, 193 Members and Members registered, for 87, against 79. This proposal was rejected. [[17.20 hours]] Minister Brabec did not suggest anything, Minister Lubomír Metnar also proposed nothing and Minister Vojtěch Adam didn't suggest anything either. The next item on which I am going to vote is Mr Aleš Juchelka's proposal to include a point on the agenda of the meeting which he called the impact of the budgetary provisional on the social area. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 13, 193 Members and Members registered, for proposal 87, against 73. This proposal was rejected. As I have my remarks in front of me, we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made. No one disputes this, in which case I will now vote on the draft agenda for this meeting as a whole with the amendments that we have adopted. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the draft programme? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? In the vote with order number 14, 193 Members and Members, in favour of proposal 170, against no one. I am of the opinion that we have agreed to the proposal for this meeting. But I have a comment on the vote. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. I voted against the number nine vote. I've got a pro on the high. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u31	Okay. Only statements for the screen record without questioning the vote. Okay, thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for voting number 4, I voted against, but there has been a pro, I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-000-000.u33	Again for the tape screen. Okay, thank you. We have dealt with the comments on the vote and will then proceed to the agenda for today's meeting. We were the first to approve a point called
