ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u1	64. Government bill amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended / House print 639/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and Mr Dominik Feri to take up positions at the rapporteur's table, which they have just done. Under the authority of the government, the criminal code will be introduced by Madam Justice Minister Marie Benešová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of this bill - this is a government bill - is to allow the criminal sanctions of those involved in the activities of non-state armed groups aimed at working in armed conflict in another state in a way that poses a serious risk not only to the state where the conflict is taking place but also to the security of the Czech Republic. During their participation in the group, these persons will acquire a number of military practices at risk of their use after their subsequent return to the Czech Republic. A security risk may also be the tendency of these people to form or join different radical or extremist groups or to gain their followers in combat. The draft law introduces a new deed affecting certain forms of action by persons participating in the activities of non-State armed groups aimed at acting in armed conflict taking place in the territory of another State. In addition to engaging in combat activity itself, the provision and admission of training as well as travelling with the intention of engaging in the combat activity of such a group is also affected. The armed group is not an organizational part of the army or armed forces of a foreign state nor is it subject to the leadership of such a state, so it is not possible to strike this act as a service in foreign armed forces. The draft law also specifies the formulation of a crime of support and promotion of terrorism in order to make it clear that the provision or acceptance of training for the commission of a terrorist offence also applies to training relating to the production or use of materials which, by their nature, are similar to explosives, weapons or dangerous substances. The draft law was drawn up on the basis of the conclusions of the analysis of 28 January last year, entitled Evaluation of the possibility of criminal sanctions on the activities of foreign terrorist fighters and was drawn up on the basis of a national security audit. I am asking for the support of this law and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u3	Good morning, dear colleagues. I would like the rapporteur to take the floor for first reading, Mr Dominik Feri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the government has prepared for us a short three-point amendment introducing a new crime of participation in a non-state armed group. The Ministry responds to the change in the nature of armed conflicts, when the Czech criminal law in the provision of Section 322 of the Criminal Code remembers the illegal service in armed forces of the Czech Republic recognized by another state. At present, however, we come across a situation where Czech citizens are fighting on the side of entities that Czech diplomacy does not recognise as a foreign state. He may be a fighter at Donbas who fights against the Ukrainian government in the colors of the Donetsk People's Republic, or a Czech citizen who supports the fight of Daesh in Africa or the Middle East. The legislation so far knows participation in a terrorist group, but here the prosecution has to prove the terrorist act of such a group. The new reality fills the gap between these crimes so that it is possible to prosecute Czech citizens who return from various places of conflict. The minority part of the law extends the factual nature of the support and promotion of terrorism so that it can be prosecuted not only by persons who do not directly provide terrorists with things usable for terrorism or information about them, but also by materials of a similar nature. [[Will it?]] The bill was sent on 8 November 2019 and I recommend that the House refer it to the committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have no one to report to. Yes, this is Mr. Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u6	Thank you, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, the Minister has summed things up in her opening speech as I have prepared them. She was talking about that time - but it wasn't last year, but it wasn't last spring - when the government acted in 2019, because this material arrived in the Chamber of Deputies by the end of 2019, because I wrote to him my report for the club already 25. 11. 2019. That means the time lag is quite long. Although this report mentions, in particular, the introduction of a new fact requiring participation and action in non-state armed groups, where the explanatory memorandum mentions only ISIS, but the reason may be completely different. And I think the rapporteur has mentioned him now in his intelligence report. It is also participation in other war conflicts, especially in Donbas. From my point of view, however, he proposes excesses, because even when the time has passed since the discussion and insertion into the system and we are in 2021, you just need to open up Google or enter there and you will find that people who have been involved in war conflicts such as Donbas or somewhere else can prosecute the Czech justice system under existing law. It can, because several of these people have already been affected, and I see no reason to give another new deed. It's always just a reaction to something that we're trying to achieve, but it's always the right to one particular thing. I understand that this government may have a problem with some things. In the long term, we have also discussed how our people are affected, who have joined the French Foreign Legion and operate anywhere in North Africa or anywhere else, and we know what actions the Foreign Legion or other similar group is involved in. But in no way has this mattered much within the Czech criminal law. So I see excesses here, and as such, I propose that you reject this law at first reading, although I understand that you will have a completely different opinion, but I had to tell you this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u7	Thank you. Is Mrs Válková reporting with a factual remark?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u8	I'll try to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u9	So I'll put you in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to draw attention to one thing that has either escaped me acoustically or has not really been mentioned yet. There is also an amendment to the institute of effective regret. As you know, we recently approved third reading and effective remorse for illegal arming. And now, in the new facts of participation in a non-state armed group aimed at acting in armed conflict, effective regret would also be extended. What would that mean? That if the person had either prevented the harmful outcome in time, he would have informed, which we very much need in these cases, corrected it by his actions, it would have ceased. It's not a crime at all. There is no criminal responsibility. He can't prosecute, he can't stand trial, so it's also of great precautionary importance. So clearly here for and I don't see any duplication here. With regard to what Mr Ondráček, through you, Mr Vice-President, has said, I am of the opinion that we are to facilitate the work of law enforcement authorities, and we are making it easier in this regard. Because what definitely did wrinkles, and not only on the foreheads of police officers and prosecutors, but also the judges that I discussed with some of them, was precisely how to apply the existing facts of criminal offences, which are best suited to the sanctions for those acts which are described here in a new factual way precisely, Section 321a. The policeman will take 321, either subsuming the signs of the facts, the actions, under those signs of the facts, or not. And I don't want to say it, but it's done and it's calm. Otherwise, the D.A.'s giving him back, giving him advice. So that the Czech criminal justice has dealt with it, I'm sure we'll find that on Google. But how much unnecessary time it took, we won't find it. So clearly: I think whoever raises his hand for this doesn't have to worry about approving duplicates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u11	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u12	No, co-worker, we're not gonna have sex. It's just that we all have an opinion, and I think that's right. That is why we are in Parliament. I fully agree that we are to facilitate the work of law enforcement and justice authorities. But on the other hand, I also don't think we should hold their hand. We also have to give them the opportunity to make separate decisions and not tie them up with precise definitions and precise definitions so that flexibility is there. And now we are clearly showing that in the meantime, when the government began to discuss it, when it put it into the system and brought it here to the Chamber of Deputies, it is clear that the courts were able to deal with it for more than 14 months. We have a number of convictions here that can handle this. So let's not say that today it's necessary for an authority active in criminal proceedings, police, prosecutors, or then the court has to have a lead on how to do it. They're able to do it. And as for that effective regret, I can already see how it will somehow be verified, proving effective regret when someone comes from a point of conflict where no one dares to go, and saying, yeah, I may have shot ten people on either side or on the other side, but I sincerely regret it. Or deny that something like this has happened. Or she'll be giving others and others... Or it'll be enough to send 50,000 to some orphanage. I don't think that's quite right. If anyone engages in these matters and the law enforcement authorities, the courts consider that this is an infringement, the possibility of penalising them is sufficient under the criminal law. It's my legal opinion. Of course, you can have another one. You're a coalition, you're declaring it, I'm not against it. I merely said that I want this opinion to be heard here in the Chamber of Deputies, because that is what we are Members of, so that we can speak here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-005-064.u13	Thank you, too. I do not see anyone else enrolled in the general debate, either electronically or from the point of view, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. There's no interest in final words. We will vote on Mr Ondráček's proposal, which proposes rejecting the proposal. I'm gonna go, I'm gonna wait a minute. We will vote on the rejection of this proposal. I've started the vote, I'm asking, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting order number 258, 92 Members registered, for 6, against 18. The motion was denied. [[11.10 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I can't see. I have begun the vote and I ask, who, for the commandment of this press, is the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee? Who's against it? In voting order number 259, 92 Members signed up, for 75, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? I do not see, thank you, I am ending the first reading of this press and I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
