ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u1	523. Government Information on the Pandemic Law I ask that the Minister of Health take the floor and then speak to the plaintiff of this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u2	Good evening for the third time in a row, ladies and gentlemen, I... and honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr President. I have to learn, but I promise you, quickly. [[addressing Members]] Thank you for the opportunity Mr Feri opened yesterday and gave me the opportunity to speak here on health issues in general and the actions I have done in the last seven days. I am in office for seven days, so the Prime Minister has put me in office, and today, when there is such a turbulent time, I have the feeling that this is quite an opportunity for balance. And that's why I think it's a good thing I'm here. I have already highlighted my priorities in health work and among the most important things I would like to mention here today is the fight against covid and the associated vaccination and, of course, careful relaxation. I've declared that we don't want to make our decisions just based on how anyone feels, but we want to work with expert groups. This is probably the most important which everyone knows in that week, perhaps even before my arrival, but at least that week, the MESES group, which is composed of experts both on epidemiology, infectology, vaccination and at the same time lawyers, not only from the Czech Republic, but there are experts working abroad, in Britain or the United States of America. We had an emergency here by Sunday, which was replaced from the point of view of executives by the pandemic law, and it had to respond. I had the opportunity to get acquainted with an extraordinary measure, which on Tuesday, which means the last day in my office, signed by my predecessor. This extraordinary measure was discussed by the government, approved actually on the same day and also immediately issued, so it was Tuesday after Easter. In addition to the general issues relating to the fight against pandemics, two parameters have also emerged in this emergency measure. What I think is decisive, and I don't think it's just me, but it's what the experts who make epidemiological decisions, for example, and especially antiepidemic decisions, think that meeting people is the main element of protection, and if we manage to separate those who may be infected from those who are not infected, the epidemic will simply drop significantly. That's what the statistics are for today, because we have a lot of experience with an epidemic of this type of covido infection, basically a year, so data can be processed quite well. So the reduction in the number of people who meet is significantly more important than any other measure, and it is clearly part of the fight against pandemics. Therefore, when the MESES group looked at this extraordinary measure and looked at it with their professional eyes, sometime in the second half of last week they began to question the fact that we could loosen up so quickly, in other words, that we could allow not two people to meet inside the premises and two people outside, as it was all the time when an emergency was declared, but that we would extend it to 10 inside and 20 outside. We all understood that, of course, it is logical that people want to meet, but epidemiologists clearly said that they would not take this problem on their conscience and that the situation is so fragile that the epidemic situation could get worse very quickly again. I, of course, was still in the hospital on Tuesday in the intensive care unit, and I would hate to see what I saw there all the time the pandemic that followed us last year, even this year, that you would simply find relatives there for your father's things from your family and so on. So I hate to imagine the deterioration, and if we were to have a small risk, but here it was great that the pandemic could get worse again, that we could break the positive trend that we've been seeing here in the last few weeks, I certainly wouldn't want to experience it as Minister of Health. Therefore, after the press conference, where the original version was presented, and we were given an analysis of this situation with some animations and models of how the situation could deteriorate, if we allowed such massive relaxation in a situation where, of course, for logical reasons, we also wanted to offer children to get into schools - and we succeeded and we realize that the fact that we had done a system, that both preschoolers in kindergartens could come to school, and then those lower grades of first grade, so we put in motion 400,000 children who are in the rotation system, that means a different group will come again next week, and when we realize that those children usually have parents there, it's a really significant epidemiological risk not only that the children are in school, but that they moved away from their parents. And I think you've noticed that this week in Prague and certainly in other cities is a lot worse than we used to in the pandemic, and that is a signal that we've just moved people among ourselves and that we've somehow increased epidemiological risk. So, on Saturday, in cooperation with Dr. Smejkal's epidemiology group, we considered it appropriate to correct this problem and go back to the situation of the movement of people, here she was, and we were used to it by Sunday, so that we would not unnecessarily put two types of risks into the epidemiological charge. [[18.40 hours]] So it was necessary to revise the original emergency measure that my predecessor issued, and on Saturday after a number of consultations with colleagues in the Czech Republic and abroad, we decided to issue new emergency measures, which some of the relaxations left to the original state, as it was until Sunday, for this week until further notice. Of course, this caused a bit of an unhappy situation, and I and the whole Sunday have dealt specifically with not only citizens, but also sports associations, where they were quite rightly prepared to have trainings, and perhaps even matches in some competitions. But that's the problem, because we're trying to separate the groups from each other in the schools, the classes shouldn't meet, and then they'll mix up the organized amateur sport again in the afternoon, so what we'll keep quiet in the schools in the morning would get a lot worse in the afternoon, because we'll be mixing the schools epidemiologically. So at least we figured out a way to improve the interpretation of the situation for athletes, because meeting two on the field doesn't mean there can only be two people in the whole club. That is why, with the representatives of the sports unions, we have come up with such more complex recommendations, which may have been perceived by someone as very complicated, perhaps even smiling, as the new minister invents various complicated situations. On the other hand, it was the athletes who thought very much about how to enable training, for example, for football players or half of the football club, so that those children who sat at home at the monitors all year, so that they could at least train in pairs that are separated from each other by some defined boundary and distance. So we've managed to make an interpretation that makes it possible for those couples to still be present, but at some distance, there may be another couple who, under the guidance of a coach who is somewhere far away, can train. I think - and I've seen videos - that it works quite well and that all athletes have dealt with it as much as possible, even this model allows them to play tennis, so it is not completely restrictive. Of course some sports just can't play, you can't play a game, but we don't want to - if someone was playing rugby, there's a very tight contact, plus everything is without a drape, so epidemiologically really serious. So it was this situation that led us to avoid causing unnecessary deterioration in the epidemiological situation. Since - and that's actually related to vaccination and our preferences... We need to realise that testing is important on the one hand, and on the other hand, there is a much more important issue, and this is really an active fight against pandemics. Our goal is to continue to expand the possibilities, especially the rate of vaccination. You give the virus an opportunity to mutate for a long time and eventually ruin your entire effort by doing a slightly different structure and thereby reducing the effectiveness of the vaccines. We've been through this in part, with the mutations. Fortunately, the mutations that are in the field so far are so insignificant from this point of view that they do not significantly reduce the effectiveness of the vaccines, the spike protein against which the vaccines are created is very well set up, so the mutations are prepared not to affect the effectiveness of the particular vaccination. So our goal is to get a lot of shots, and we're going to do the best we can. I've got some questions from Mr. Feri, so if I may freely follow up... [[Member Feri answers off the microphone.]] Okay, fine. I don't know this place, so I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u3	Minister, thank you for the introductory word on this material, and I will now ask that Mr Dominik Feri take the floor on this point, who, if he agrees, will also become rapporteur. He's okay with it, so that's what's gonna happen. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Minister, thank you for coming today, and I would like to say first what motivated us to propose this point. First of all, the transition from the emergency regime to the pandemic law is not as insignificant as it might seem, it has far-reaching conventions, whether it is the restriction or scope of the measures, but also, for example, the compensation for the measures. In his opening speech, the Minister of Health - and before that, the purpose of today's meeting is not to film the Minister on the grill, but it is really to be informative, so don't expect any resolution to be voted on. But I must say that what the Minister mentioned is to the extent that the key measure has been approved - the previous Minister has issued the truth, but I do believe that he simply cannot lose personnel in exchange and cannot be held responsible for it by a citizen, the public. This means that the fact that some personal exchange has taken place is a political reality, but it does not mean that it excuses some chaos, some confusion, some additional adjustments to measures and some disappointment, legitimate expectations. The fact that it is supposed to be really informative today and that we have tried to gather some suggestions and, of course, from our experts, such as the AntiCovid team, also indicates how the minister did not expect any sneakyness, the questions were delivered to him in advance, and I think he will answer it in writing and then provide it. And to put it, it's critical in our opinion - and I want to hit the legal side of the matter here, the medical one that can be affected by my colleagues - is the question of the measure that concerns meeting. When we recapitulate it, the law, the pandemic law, as we named it here, how he settled in public opinion, we created here quite recently, and in his provision in Section 2 letter. (e) it states that the Ministry should prohibit or restrict the conduct of public or private events involving the accumulation of persons in one place. Of course, it is a pure legislative text, and what you can imagine under it depends on the interpretation itself. The Ministry stated in the latest version of the measure that it prohibited federal, dance, traditional and similar events and other gatherings, festivities, pilgrimages, parades, tastings, celebrations and other public or private events involving the accumulation of persons in one place, with participation exceeding at the same time two persons. Well, that in itself is very debatable and very contradictory precisely because the normal life simply fits in here depending on what angle you're looking at it from. For example, in my legal opinion, this does not affect family events. Is it really that when your vaccinated mother, father, or grandparents visit you and finally meet for health care measures, it is an event for which the accumulation of persons of a private nature occurs? [[18.50 hours]] In my opinion, it is a private action that this provision affects, for example, when you do something called a closed society. You're just gonna book some equipment, or you're gonna have a corporate party. I'd understand that. But does this really affect, for example, family meetings? Or a more specific example of meeting your friends in the park or on the street? Okay, two or three days of squabbling through the media lawyers, the minister denied that this was the case. He said that you can't meet in more than two people in the park, but it doesn't seem like it, or, in fact, the authentic interpretation of the Ministry is like that. But last night, and I don't know if you've noticed, the Police of the Czech Republic announced on their Twitter that the Czech Police are clear on the issue of clustering of persons in the number of two in public and in private. Extraordinary measures by the Ministry of Health tie restrictions only to mass actions. The movement of persons on the street, random disorganized meetings cannot be covered by this measure. Both the Pandemic Law and the Public Health Act cannot regulate and restrict the free movement of persons across borders, i.e. their number. The police can't and won't even direct their control activity in this direction. And that's one of the reasons why we're here today, and why we're talking about it because the minister here says, "We think you can't meet in a park in more than two people, at least that's the last statement I've noticed in the media, and against that, the police that's supposed to enforce these measures say, "Well, we're looking at it differently. And take it that, as we sit here, we watch it, we live in it 24 hours a day seven days a week, but how does someone who has everyday problems come to that - living, health, concern for their loved ones - and yet to address whether the proper interpretation of the police or the interpretation of the Ministry is? That is something that we should build here today for sure and in which the Minister should clearly say what is paying and not paying. And I'm gonna go to the partial questions. For example, has this emergency measure already been challenged by the Supreme Administrative Court under the pandemic law, which is given jurisdiction in relation to the review? If so, has the Ministry of Health already given a statement on this matter? What happens: It happens that someone will attack it at the Supreme Administrative Court, and if the Supreme Administrative Court accepts it, then, of course, it has a convention that the measure will be repealed, or the Supreme Administrative Court states that it was against the law. Well, there are, for example, conventions in terms of liability for damages, of course, for illegal measures. Did the Ministry modify the measure in the light of that statement by the Police of the Czech Republic? It is simply not sustainable for the central body of the state administration, the Ministry of Health, to say anything other than the Police of the Czech Republic. That's not sustainable. Did the Department of Health deal with the police? So what is it that these people are supposed to do, and what are we going to live in for the next few weeks? And now on to the particular thing I believe will then appear in the media, such specific questions. Can the following events be held? First, sitting or walking in the park in more than two people with a) family of multiple households, for b) friends. Secondly, stay at the cottage in more than two people with a) family from more households and b) friends. Meeting at home in more than two people with a) families from more households, for b) friends. And, of course, what drained the media's most attention, but probably not to satisfy those involved, and that's sports. That means, can more than two people meet in public when they're friends or when they're family and sports? Specifically, can you go jogging with more people, like friends? Can you ride your bike with more people? I don't know, I just don't know, and I don't think anyone in this room knows except the Minister, who can give some interpretation, which the Police of the Czech Republic will then deny. So these are the questions I've already sent to the Minister this morning, and I believe he's going to give an answer here. This is one thing that concerns specific measures. The next is a plan to relax. As you know, about a month and a half ago, we introduced our idea of how to go back to normal, how to release gradually. We have also identified specific indicators, such as the seven-day incidence as determined by the Kochův Institute in Germany, and others in such a way as to be precisely linked to something. Not with specific data, but with some waves, when we're going back to normal. Minister Blatný promised that he would adjust to the so-called PES and that we would get him to Easter. I don't know about you guys, but I didn't get anything at all, I just got a proposal that turned out to be invincible today, because the Minister of Health said forget the "dog." Okay, but so what? How are we going to get back to normal? What's next for us? And please, I don't want to be accused of wanting specific dates, that I might want the minister to say, "Well, on May 1st, we'll open the restaurant gardens and then we'll allow 30 people to take action from - I don't know - half of May, no. But what, then, will be the indicator that allows people to navigate? Just society and the economy aren't on the key. Some areas of human life can be triggered quickly from almost day to day, but some - you simply need preparation there and it will cause, I think, positive responses when there will be some guidance from the Ministry of Health and from the government, when we will be able to return to some specific activity. That means, Minister, what is the specific idea of the form of a relaxing system? Is there going to be a modified PES? Or, for example, just some general, general wave system? If you google, for example, how it is in Northern Ireland, that's the wave system, the abstract parameters of how we're going to go back. And then I have some questions, specific questions from the citizens, which, I think, the Minister can shed some light on. For example - and that's one thing that just isn't from day to day - imagine that you want to get married, that you want to get married. I was written by people who had already postponed the wedding three times, and they don't know if at the end of May or at the end of June they will be able to invite more than 15 people. He just doesn't know. The minister doesn't have a crystal ball either, but at least he could shed some light on what it's gonna look like, if it's a priority, he doesn't have a priority on what people have to count on. Specific services: for example, a segment that falls completely on the mouth and those people are completely exhausted, they need fitness centers, restaurants and more, clothing stores. When can they open? I know it may be trivial here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary, but if he writes me a senior that he's going to graduating and doesn't have a suit in which he could graduate, he just illustrates the situation, and I can't tell him anything. Furthermore, I would also like to know which years that will not be able to return to school by the end of the school year. That's still an abstract concept, too, but we don't know when it's going to be. When will practical teaching be restored? When will there be an extension of the opportunity to meet? So when do we finally get to the 10 or 20, and what's the concept? And a thing that is at least very sensitive to my generation and which, unfortunately, is not communicated, so it is when people under the age of 30 get prospectively to be vaccinated. I do not, in turn, mean that the Minister will say: 1 July, but if he had at least broadly indicated when, according to... in some more specific idea, it would be possible to start the registration system. What's the next step? Will it be like in Slovakia that we will go and allow registration for 50, 45, 40? Hasn't it been clearly communicated, either, or is it gonna be bulky? Priority groups are of absolute importance. People over the age of 80, we've heard data on vaccinations, crisis infrastructure, people with chronic disease, but we also have to think that there are people who are working age, they're also interested in vaccinations, and they'd like to know when they're gonna get to them. So these are questions for the Minister of Health. We have until nine o'clock, and if that's not enough, I think it would be appropriate for the minister to send it to us in writing. To the Minister of Finance: I very much appreciate the fact that he is here, Madam Secretary, thank you. This is important because the pandemic law contains a special adjustment for compensation for the measures. The Minister at the meeting we attended during the preparation mentioned that it would be about 50 billion a year... 50 billion a month, sorry, which carries a great deal - that, Madam Secretary, is what you said - which carries a great deal of administrative burdens, because the requests, reasonable or unfounded, will be large. Therefore, I would like to ask whether everything is ready, that is, some information system, how it will be managed, and, of course, the forms themselves and some methodical plan, the methodological instruction for what the applicants for damages should contain, what facts they should claim, and what evidence they should identify for those factual statements. I thank you very much and look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u5	I also thank you and open the general debate and have the priority right to sign up: Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mrs Jana Černochová and Minister Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the pandemic law and the pandemic framework replace an emergency situation and, as such, of course, they change a number of things at least from a legal point of view. I would like to take a closer look at the situation in our schools in my speech. We are all glad that children, pupils and students are starting to return to school. However, the basis on which this happens and on which pupils, students as conditions for presentation, are also tested continues to be based on a not-so-perfect law on public health protection. I am referring to the fact that the pandemic law and the pandemic framework, in this case, only paradoxically, envisages universities, which, by no means, in the coming weeks and months, seemingly are not on the agenda as we have the information. This, of course, carries with it a number of legal questions. I think it is very important to say that the way children, pupils and students return to school should be primarily predictable. I would say that this order from our Members and Members, but I think that even experts, teachers, directors, students, parents, pupils, are going on for the whole of that one year to fight pandemics. I would like to take a closer look at the situation that I consider to be an urgent, senior situation. The point is, since Monday, April 19th, the practical parts of math begin. The situation is, however, that at least three dates of our graduates' return to schools, not even the final years of the schools, be it the date of March 1st, then April 12th and then April 19th. Therefore, neither of these terms has been fulfilled and the practice is not ongoing. I will ask the Minister here if he would be so kind and in the direction of our students and our principals and teachers of the final years and of the senior years did not comment on how he sees the restoration of at least the practice in schools. Why do I ask that? As I have already mentioned, regardless of the fact that this term is not certain at this time and to some extent it is not in sight, the practical parts of the exams begin on Monday. Once again, they're starting. Yet no other rules have changed and changed. This is very important to me, because if we performed here in the past few weeks, it was very important for us whether the adjustments made to the maths that occurred as a result of the covid, almost a year out of teaching, and especially the practice in secondary schools and schools, so we had an interest in making sure that the practical parts of terms and content would be adjusted according to this fact, and we were assured here that this was the case. Unfortunately, my information from schools is such that summary information about how the school directors used the deadline for practical parts of the exams or the final exams, or whether - if they have not been moved up and, as I say, starting on Monday - the contents of these practical parts have been modified, this information is not yet available. We didn't even get them as a school committee. More and more and more often, students and students are coming to us, and I think they're right to ask them to have this information. I have responded so that this week I have asked our captains and captains as founders of secondary schools to do so - regardless of how many other serious tasks our captains and captains have to do at the moment - that information has not been collected in such a way as to make it clear whether we are honestly prepared for the revised graduations and final exams, and we can therefore be at peace, whether we can say this or not, there has not been a shift in these terms, there has not been an adjustment to the content of the practical parts, and then, honourable colleagues, I think it would be fair to face it and say clearly how we are going to deal with it. I would like to commend our captains and captains, because most of them responded to me in turn and announced that they would provide this information. I think that we should have this information for a fair settlement with graduation exams and final exams this year, and then we should follow it as Members and Members and legislators. In this context, I would also like to take advantage of the fact that the House plenary has repeatedly addressed the issue of math adjustments in a situation where the epidemiological situation and the pandemic framework at the moment does not allow the return of students and secondary school students to schools, the choice of a didactic test in the case of medical disciplines, that is to say, those students and students who have been deployed in the first line, either voluntarily or in the framework of a work assignment, or also on the basis of a normal contract of employment. Here I would also like to say to you, colleagues, that according to my information, what we have long asked for on the school committee will happen, namely the equalisation of what seems logical, but it was not so, long-distance studies, combined studies and daily studies of these medical disciplines, where all these types will be able to choose between a didactic test or an evaluation based on the average of stamps. But let me say from the perspective of secondary schools, seniors and apprentices of the final years of secondary schools and schools that this is probably the only little good news in the matter. So I am closing the window on secondary schools, Minister of Health, so - please see how you have an idea of the evolution of the epidemiological situation to gradually restore the possibility of practical teaching at our schools and secondary schools, especially in order to ensure that the pandemic law is being fulfilled. The second thing I would like to focus on is what colleagues here have repeated in terms of testing in schools and children's return, pupils, students to schools. I will not repeat what has been said here, because the Minister of Health will certainly use the situation to answer some of these questions on this point. However, I want to say that from the point of view of testing, it is certainly appropriate to say that if testing is to continue, it should therefore be really gentle, it should be proportionate, it should correspond to the fact that it is time-limited testing, if we at the same time release other parts of trade, services, work, because of course it is a major intervention towards children. My previous speakers here recalled that while the children are tested twice a week, and we arrived at this rather quickly, to this setting, adult employees, employees in operations, in businesses and in factories are tested less times. This, too, must be said to be taken into account. There is only one thing I would like to mention in the testing, and that will be the end of it, not to be long, but practical and to use the presence of the Minister of Health and his options for answers. The question is how will it continue to approach whether some of the children, I point out for objective reasons, can not be tested, so I wonder how they see it, because I have registered that for the specific educational needs of some children, and it may be a matter of special schools, which has also been mentioned here by fellow speakers, he has published his opinion that these children can either continue to participate in the presentation teaching if such reasons exist, and I, as a lawyer, want to say that, even in all other cases, it is necessary to ensure the right of education in any form of distance education, i.e. in a situation where the child is not tested or the parent does not allow his testing. The reason for this is that the right to education is, of course, something that we must guarantee in all respects, and that should also be the case in the practice of schools. [[19.10 hours]] Here I would like to thank our directors, our teachers, our teachers, because that's exactly how they're progressing, I've been communicating with them all along. We have also processed some legal opinions so that they ensure the safety of children, parents and teachers, and at the same time that we can be sure that relationships will not be disrupted - and that is probably the case in every school. Therefore, I thank them for providing distance education for children who have not undergone testing for any reason and who are trying to ensure their education of adequate quality. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention and thank the Minister of Health for being here because these are sensitive issues concerning parents, children, pupils, students and schools, and we are really bombarded as Members and Members of the requests that I have formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u7	Thank you. At this point, Mrs Jana Černochová will speak with priority rights, which I am giving the floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam Secretary. Allow me, therefore, to open a chapter which has already been partially opened during the discussion of the previous point, but the Minister did not have the opportunity to comment on this. It's about testing. Minister, I want to ask why we bother children with antigen tests that have no meaningful value, no relevance. I'm sure you or your colleagues have also registered articles that bilanced Monday's testing. Let me get this straight. In Prague there were 15 positive children from 35 729 tested pupils, in the Moravian-Silesian Region there were also 15 children from 36 000 tested pupils, in the South Moravian Region there were 12 children from 35 870 pupils, in the Zlín Region there were 21 children from 17 150 pupils. It's about ten times less capture than normal antigenic population testing. Petr Smejkal, head of the advisory group at the Ministry of Health, said: "From the beginning we said that pupils should be tested using PCR testing. Tests can capture rather positive individuals with symptoms that have virus more even at the edge of the nose, those without symptoms that need to be isolated in time so that they do not unwittingly spread the virus anymore, but not so much." The state bought two types of tests for schools. In Bohemia they received sets from the company LEPU, Moravia from the company Singclean. Both sets are from China, both types of tests are taken by children by their nose swab. For example, scientists from Pakistan reported in a specialist journal that children have only 20 percent sensitivity to PCR tests. That means they're picking up one positive kid while the PCR test captures four children. You yourself, Minister of Health, said yesterday that you were not surprised by the small seizure of positive cases, and so I would like to ask you what you, as Minister of Health, will, of course, do in cooperation with the Minister of Education, because the report that these antigen tests are not working is not new. Seven already. 4. it was found that Bioinova tested the sensitivity of nine antigen tests, which can be obtained on the Czech market and it turned out that there are large differences between them, that the lowest sensitivity has those that the state paradoxically decided to use in schools. I am the mayor of the Prague 2 district, which is adjacent to your previous assignment at Vinohrady Hospital. We are set up by 10 primary and 7 kindergarten schools at various dedicated workplaces, so I really have a personal experience mediated by the director of our primary schools. My parents are telling me why we're torturing children with this test that's not effective, which doesn't actually prove anything that your predecessors may have thought would happen. It is not happening, and it is logical that this should change. I would like to ask you on behalf of us mayors, not only represented in this Chamber of Deputies, and I think that most of us agree on this, whether we are from any side, but also some of our colleagues in the capital of Prague who have approached you - Mayor Portlík from Prague 9, Councilwoman Kubíková from Prague 6, actually the mayor and many politicians, not only from our capital city, have asked you to be applied in those schools, if at all, PCR tests, saliva tests, which are non-invasive, which will not cause any more trauma to these children. Of course, I remember my experience when we had jaundice at primary school and went to regular testing as second-class pupils, if we were also infected by chance. I know how it affected children several times a week, how it affected me, how it affected my parents, when, in fact, their child is either being touched by another person or, in fact, by a small child, it is meant to affect itself. I think it is a unique opportunity, Minister, to show the general public that you are an expert in this department, that you are indeed a person who thinks about these things in context, and you want our education to get back on its feet in some way. If we were to use PCR tests, we don't have to divide children, pupils into stages, everyone could enter schools, we could, and now I don't want to invent it for Minister Plaga, but maybe I'll sacrifice Monday that it would take place everywhere on Monday, it would be tested once a week, so we would actually invest the same funds as when the children are tested twice a week, but at the cost of the children being traumatized, that they are traumatized parents of children and educators. And the result is that it doesn't actually prove anything. [[19.20 hours]] I don't think the price difference between those PCR tests is that big. We managed to buy PCR tests from saliva for 58 crowns without VAT. We have handed out several dozen of these tests to each of our schools and kindergartens, at least for children who have some trauma, some medical problem or even psychic, so that the testing can happen. And it would certainly be appreciated not only by the children, parents, but also by the founders of the schools. And maybe if the problem were financial, someone would be able to participate in some of these listed self-governing units. But like I said, it wouldn't cost much. If two bad tests or one good test, it's at the same price, but for a much shorter period of time, without traumatising, without harassing even teachers, not just children. At the moment, Minister, it is essential that the payment decree should be changed and that the State should contribute, as I said, to PCR tests, at least as much as it contributes to antigen tests. Because we may agree on that, PCR tests are far more accurate, and therefore going back to schools will be much safer. So let me introduce you, on behalf of the Civic Democrat Club, to our position and to our request to you... [[She's turning to Secretary Schiller, who's debating with Minister Arenberger.]] Madam Secretary, I'm talking to the Minister, and I'd like to - that's fine, but save it for another time and let's go out. [[The secretary says it was on the subject.]] It's awkward. I already feel like you've been sitting on me, that every time I talk, your colleagues come here to tell you something and you can talk. So please have the minister pay attention to me. Thank you. On behalf of the ODS club, I will tell you, Minister, an opinion or our position, and I can therefore convey not only the position of Members of the club, but also the colleagues from the municipal policy who are asking me to explain to you, as Members, what problems these antigen tests are causing, and ask you to act as an expert in this regard and ensure that the testing would take place in the coming days, which are indeed more relevant in some way and have better explanatory value. So I'm asking you politely, we're asking the government to consider all the possibilities for the full return of all children and pupils to kindergarten, primary schools, Katka Valachová would definitely fill me in, even those high schoolers. Furthermore, as a government representative, we would ask you to allow and ensure testing for the presence of COVID-19 virus by PCR tests from saliva in schools using a method called sample pool. Furthermore, we ask you to reconsider the method of testing and to allow the founders - the founders, i.e. either to self-government, I will now not distinguish who sets up what they are, whether they are municipalities or regions - but to allow school founders to make sure that the method of testing children and pupils for the presence of the COVID-19 virus is on them, including their responsibility for saying: These tests are expensive, cheap, bad, good. Of course, it would always have to be, Minister, the tests that are listed in the regulation, or in the decree, so that certification is guaranteed, that they are tests that are fine. None of us want to test our kids for tests that aren't licensed. I'm sure we all understand that in this spirit. Of course, if you were to go this way, it would be appropriate, therefore, to ensure the financing of these tests, because as self-government, we are able, ready, to help you in some way and perhaps to help you, but it cannot all go behind us. Because, of course, you can say, "Buy it and test whatever you want." I can't, because the community won't get the money out of it. The municipality will not be compensated by the fact that it is carried out through the payment decree and through the insurance company. So actually what we did on the 2nd, that because of the fear of not having any tears and problems in the schools, we bought something - not something, but we bought the PCR tests from the saliva - so that the educators could also provide for these children who were afraid of it, their ability to enter the school. So I would imagine that we would get at least a few hundred of these tests to each school as part of the change in your thinking that you, too, had to do statistics after the first test, and you know how many of those kids had a positive incidence in quotes, or how many children tested positive for antigen in those statistics. And I'm sure it would be appropriate to rethink it as soon as possible, because we'll have another test tomorrow. I'm sure you're not, with all due respect, superman enough to make a decision today after a few hours when you're in office, and tomorrow it was true, but at least try to make it different in the coming weeks. I'm really, really interrogating myself for this. I know it costs some money, but let's save it in places where it has some effect, but please, nicely, let's not spare on our children because it'll come back negatively. It will negatively return to the fact that these schools may have to close again, because these antigen tests with this low degree of weight actually prove absolutely nothing, and none of us want that. Parents, children and we as founders and as Members were hoping and appealing all the time, asking the relevant ministers to finally open schools. Now that we've opened it, let's not really let the covid spread it so that we don't catch it in time with bad tests, inconclusive tests, where the actual percentage of weight is this low. Let us invest more money in this and try to keep children in schools for as long as possible. Thank you for listening. Thank you for the fact that the Minister is certainly ready to answer some questions and introduce us to the vision he has. I absolutely don't blame the Minister for causing this situation. He's actually the Minister for a few hours. But on the other hand, at this point, we need to talk about what's going to happen in the next few days and weeks, so that we don't underestimate what we're all hoping to do as soon as possible, and that's bringing the kids back to school. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u9	Good evening, honourable Members. This was Mrs Černochová, who spoke for the ODS. Now with the priority right of the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government Alena Schillerová, Mr Arenberger will prepare himself. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Member, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to contribute to the pandemic law, too. But I'm gonna stick to the part about compensation. Well, I mean, before I start, Mr. Ambassador, I don't even suspect you made that up, but we were looking at how much $50 billion a month, I would have to go drown in the Vltava River if it were meant to be. [[Feri]] I'm saying I'm not going, okay? But I really couldn't say that. I also asked my deputy, who was sitting next to me in those meetings, even he doesn't remember. I was wondering if it came from the workshop and some of your MPs, for example, in relation to the compensation law that lies here. It's really a number-- take 50 billion a month times 12, we don't even have a budget for that. So I certainly don't think I said that in that context. I don't suspect you, I think it was some kind of noise. Well, I'll just say it for the introduction. I don't suspect you of course you made it up, no way. But I think it was some kind of misunderstanding. Now, let's go to the part about why I'm performing today. The so-called pandemic law, or precisely Act No. 94/2021 Coll., on emergency measures for the epidemic of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain related laws, provides in its Section 9, the obligation of the State to compensate for damage caused to any legal or natural person means not only to entrepreneurs but basically to anyone during the state of pandemic emergency. I will also note that this situation applies by law from the date of application of the pandemic law and can be terminated or renewed by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies in causal connection with exceptional measures under the pandemic law or exceptional measures under the Public Health Protection Act, the purpose of which is to manage the COVID-19 epidemic. Thus, the pandemic law explicitly states that there the amended compensation scheme applies only to damage caused by emergency measures issued either under the pandemic law or under the Public Health Act, and in addition to those measures in the second row of those measures, provided that their purpose is to manage the COVID-19 epidemic. Therefore, the compensation scheme under the pandemic law will not result in direct damage to the causal link with the crisis measures under the crisis law. Typical example for use of argument and contrario. Of course, this does not mean that there would be no compensation for such cases, but it is in the crisis law, not in the pandemic law. The limitation of the compensation scheme under the pandemic law to the types of emergency measures cited is all logical. At the same time, it does not apply that the compensation scheme under the pandemic law could not be applied in the event of a declared emergency situation, on the contrary. You can remember that under the emergency situation already on 1 March 2021, emergency measures were issued by the Ministry of Health MZDR 47828/2020-16/MIN/KAN, which concerns mandatory testing of employees, which was issued according to the pandemic law. Thus, the declared emergency situation does not preclude the application of the pandemic law for the issue of measures which it considers can be taken. The emergency situation at that moment only extends the range of possible measures to those which do not allow us to issue the pandemic law, such as restrictions on movement. On the contrary, in an emergency-free situation, there are measures, including, for example, those restricting operations, issued under the pandemic law or the Public Health Protection Act, and if damage is caused to them, its replacement is governed by the pandemic law. [[Status]] Currently from 12 April onwards, the government is putting the pandemic law fully into practice, under immediate judicial control. In the various paragraphs of Section 9 of the pandemic Act, the other conditions for entitlement to compensation are specified. The law states, first, what is subject to compensation, namely, that the real damage is paid, that is, what has diminished the property sphere of the victim. The law also contains a negative definition when it states that, on the contrary, the cost of purchasing washing, cleaning or disinfection products is not considered as damage. The injured person must prove that the damage was really caused by the measures mentioned, i.e. measures under the pandemic law or measures under the Public Health Protection Act, and also that the damage could not be prevented. The amount of all subsidies, return financial assistance and other aid granted to mitigate the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic or the effects of emergency measures shall be deducted from any claim for damages by law. As regards the procedure for the application of the damage, the application is made by law to the Ministry of Finance within 12 months of the date when the injured party became aware of the damage, but no later than three years after its inception. The law specifies exactly what all the formalities must include in the claim for damages. The Ministry of Finance - and now I come to your question - has prepared a manual form for damaged subjects. At the moment, after internal commentary proceedings and after such a shortened or not complete inter-ministerial commentary procedure, we were more likely to communicate with the MIT, MPSV and the Ministry of Agriculture because of the subsidies granted to have links there, and is ready for publication at the moment. It hasn't been published yet, I admit it, but because there are basically some last comments from these departments. Now let me comment on your question, Mr Feri, on the possible reserve of the state budget of the Czech Republic for damages under the pandemic law. I think we've already explained the 50 billion, I hope, so given that only 11 April ended the emergency situation during which the government acted dominantly under the crisis law, it is no surprise that the Ministry of Finance has not yet registered any claim for damages under the pandemic law on that date. And because the pandemic law is activated at a time when I already firmly believe and expect the opening of the economy, the loosening of anti-epidemic measures and the reduction of the unforced effects on businesses and businesses, without wanting to interfere with the competence of my honored colleague, the Minister of Health, I dare say that the costs should gradually be reduced, the more so if the state of the pandemic emergency does not take too long. If the opposite is true, which we certainly do not want in this hall or anywhere else, then I believe that the focus of the budgetary impact will lie mainly in the budget of 2022, because the damage must first arise, then be proven and then assessed as justified. The Ministry of Finance, as I'm sure you know, has six months to do this, which doesn't mean it's going to let the deadline go any longer, but there may be some clarification, or there may not be a full request, so that's why there's a six-month period that the Ministry will of course try not to use to the maximum possible extent. Therefore, we will have to take into account the potential effects arising from the application of the law when preparing the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2022. I suppose by then we'll have some experience with the requests submitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u11	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Even before the speech by the Minister of Health, with a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u12	Thank you very much for your answers. About the 50 billion - it was actually said. It was a meeting on February 18th in room 106 from 9 a.m. But I think you probably thought at the time, and it may have been noise, but from both sides, it was the total impact of the hard lockdown and the relationship to the pandemic law, very probably. You mentioned how the law was designed, that what was provided would count. I understand that there have not yet been any claims for damages under this law, but let us take into account that the measures under this law work three days before the testing has worked, but they work three days before, and this has the pure nature of some kind of feedback, which means those people will ask back. And that's why I'm interested in when the form will be published, and also if there's any estimation of how many of these requests you're expecting, for example, if you're going to inspire yourself to handle those requests by the Ministry of the Interior, I mean in the sense of technical, not the approach, because the Interior Ministry's request for a crisis law was very low, unfortunately it went on a warpath with those people who sought damages and wanted to sue them. So if you could zoom in on this, when the form will be available and when there will be some methodological guidance available, so that it will really be any small businessman who considers that the help he received was not sufficient, and under the pandemic law he is entitled to greater damages, so when and where he will be able to learn this information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u13	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, but you have raised a factual remark from the Vice Prime Minister. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. I'm also measuring your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u14	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The form is basically a matter of days. We're working on some technical stuff. We don't want it to be sewn with a hot needle again. Of course, the form isn't binding. When someone puts it off the form - you know it's some kind of clue that we want to help right now, we want to help methodically. I want to draw attention to this, which is why I took it - you remember it when we discussed it, in the end the Constitutional Act was passed - I took it precisely because the Ministry of Finance - and it is not usually known because everyone perceives only the budget or taxes, or most people, but there is still a very important section of legal, which, among other things, makes arbitration for all departments, does damages - that is, there is a qualified legal team that moves in this area, represents in court. This will primarily concern itself with these things, and I, of course, according to the idea with the relevant deputy of this section, according to the cases under attack on this matter, will deal with whether the union can handle it, can handle it, or strengthen it within the section, so we are ready for it. Of course, we'll put it all on the Ministry of Finance's website, on my social media, and we'll make it public. It's a common practice that we do with every thing we put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u15	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and now Minister of Health Arenberger. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u16	Mr President, Mr proposer, Madam Vice Prime Minister, honourable Members, I have made a few comments and prepared answers to the questions that have been raised here. I would like to start by saying that from watching our gradual steps in the situation, and let's imagine - you get on the ministry, you get on a train, you see that it's going in some direction, and I'm talking about this extraordinary measure, and you find that the train is going in a blind dorm, so you have two options: either to pretend that it's okay or to stop it and to transfer it to a train that goes on. And I chose the second option, which means that I have issued a new emergency measure that was flawless, at least according to our lawyers, and which has maintained the safety that the epidemiologists have recommended. So, professionally, I think it's perfectly okay. If it's legal, I can't judge it as a doctor. From my point of view, I assume that the pandemic law that we have here is to fight the pandemic and has been voted by this House across the political spectrum, so I assume that this House has thought about giving us the tools to work with the pandemic. The basic element, as I said at the beginning, is the restriction of meeting potentially infectious people, and that's all of us here, and that's all those people who might be listening to us right now. We have to try to separate those risky contacts. And you're also telling me that the pandemic law doesn't allow this - so your lawyers, in cooperation with our immunologists, need to think about how to fix this. After all, we don't want to raise an emergency just because we can't agree to unblock the pandemic. So that's my medical perspective, of course connected to the opinions of lawyers. If you ask me if I consulted with the police, of course, I consulted with Vice Prime Minister Hamáček and Home Secretary and he told me that in this case the Ministry of the Interior, and so he personally in the government, respects the decision of the Ministry of Health. The way I see it, he understands the situation as critical as it is. Now, let's just remember that these numbers, as far as new cases are concerned with hospitalized in intensive care units, are in this situation the worst we've had in the fall, so it's not for any fun. We really need to realise here that, of course, the legal side is essential, but from the health point of view of all of us, it is crucial that we fight the pandemic, the virus, and I expect your full support for our citizens. Let's go to the next question - if it was attacked by a court of law. We haven't heard about it yet. I was talking about the fact that we received a pre-trial call for the previous emergency measure, and I was also told why - because there was not enough reason to restrict citizens as a ministry. I'm talking about the extraordinary arrangement my predecessor made. Here for this extraordinary measure, which I issued on Saturday, for what I have information, the Supreme Administrative Court has not yet been addressed. And there's no way I can imagine a lawyer making a decision in this situation and pushing us to completely disperse the situation and increase the extreme risk of having to make a lockdown again. But, of course, don't expect me to interpret the law, the interpretation of the law is up to someone else, not even lawyers. You know, two lawyers have three opinions, so we have to wait there for a definite position. In light of the statements of the Police of the Czech Republic, did the Ministry modify the interpretation of individual provisions? Not yet. We also assume that the interpretation of the Police of the Czech Republic is practically in line with our idea of how this should work. We can talk academically about whether the fact that the police can't intervene in my apartment, in my apartment, if I invite a few friends there - I think it's perfectly okay. I wouldn't be happy if a commando and a few of my friends broke into my apartment just because we don't have drapes and there's one more of us there than some of my extraordinary measures are supposed to be. But I think what we've done is a signal to all of us that it's ideal not to cause this kind of situation at home. So I'm saying again, the situation isn't good, and only the biggest Furians would have a party at home. So please don't do that and don't wait for the police to come or come. Think with your head and decide completely freely, but decide as we have done in the past year. And I think most of us know perfectly how to protect ourselves. I mean, look, no MP's gonna touch the microphone, but he's squeezing it with his elbow like that. So we know all the procedures we need to protect ourselves and our surroundings. It's just a signal: Keep doing it, and you'll protect your health, both yourself and your loved ones, as well as your wide surroundings. [[19.50 hours]] The question is whether to take the following events: sitting or walking in the park in more than two people with participation: (a) families from multiple households and (b) friends. I think I've already answered my question here. Here are the events in the public space in the park, or the inspection authorities, I suppose they have to judge the suspicions of a forbidden mass action based on how people behave, and they're going to assess whether it's a group of people who go in one direction, they have nothing to do with each other, and they happen to be closer than, like, two meters, or if there's a picnic in the meadow where a bunch of friends sit and they're basically doing an illegal mass action. But let's leave it to the Police of the Czech Republic. I think they know exactly what to do, and I don't think it's our job to instruct them to do that either. Next question: stay at the cottage in more than two people with a) family from multiple households and b) friends. As I was saying, private action - try not to do it, and if you do it, I can imagine that it probably doesn't hurt you inside, but really don't. It's useless and protect your health. That's what we're here for as the Department of Health, but if you interfere with your health, we're trying to get it back. Notice, there was such a joke on Twitter that one monkey went after four and the other one stepped on her feet, and the back monkey says to the front one, "What are you doing?" And the front one said, "Arenberger said we should walk in two." I wrote that the Department of Health or Health will put you on your feet. It's a joke, but on the other hand, we try to get you on your feet, but sometimes we don't have to succeed. After all, the biological subject is a risk, so if you catch the virus, it can hurt you, it can leave you permanent consequences, it can endanger your life, so follow it and do not ask questions that are legal, but primarily ask questions that are medical. Meeting at home in more than two people with a) family and b) friends. I think the same applies to the previous question, if you can do the same at the cottage, so I think I completely replied that it is the same and there is no difference between the apartment and the cottage. Sports in more than two people with a) family from multiple households, b) friends plus variant, if for example it is a collective run in a park or a collective ride on bikes. I think you're asking me hard questions, but I'm still gonna try to answer them. Primarily, again, what I said before, protect yourself. But if you really don't have another option, let's take it apart. Ten people playing football together on an outdoor field, five to five, it's gonna be a forbidden private mass action. For people running or riding bicycles, it is harder to judge at mass action. If they don't have close contact with each other, they shouldn't normally view it as a mass action. I don't want to advise, but I suppose if you're riding a bike, even a cop should be on a bike to explain it to you that you're not supposed to do it in a larger group, but once again I think there's a simple rule: let's think about thinking about not getting infected. Now we're talking about a release plan. What is the specific idea in the form of a relaxing system? Will it be a modified system of PES, or a wave system like Germany, England, or Northern Ireland? PES, which was so glorified and then so criticized on Thursday after he escaped from the Ministry's trash and got into the media in an entirely unprocessed form, was quite much discussed and I think it's completely unnecessary, but that's normal, that's what we encounter commonly, and in the last seven days that I'm the Minister of Health, there's already been a few of these kicks in the media, and I take it as a normal folklore, which maybe some less read media need to be read more, so I'm not doing anything about it. But let's talk seriously about how we're going to proceed. Basically, we will use the elements that were in the "dog" and we will even be very happy to use the elements that are in the opposition proposal, and we will put the individual packages that will be placed in order of gradual steps as they will unfold, but we will proceed according to how colleagues abroad also proceed. In fact, abroad, for example, in the United States, I consulted the MESES Group that we would be based on data, i.e. on data on an epidemic that has individual elements, but we would not state any dates. So dates yes, dates no. The order will be known, we're working on it in cooperation with epidemiologists, but I don't want to tell you any date, and it has two logics. I don't want to make any exaggerated hopes that we can do something exactly in 14 days, because we don't have an enemy against each other who's a mechanical machine, but it's a pretty intelligent virus that's capable of mutating and playing with us a little bit. There are a number of other variable factors, as I say - three cyclists, four cyclists, two cyclists, depending on whether we allow the virus to spread between us or not. If we're smart and tell him not to spread between us, maybe we'll have a nice holiday. Now, if we're gonna be naughty, we're just gonna keep wearing respirators on vacation, we're gonna be warm, we're gonna be cursing, we're gonna have rashes on our faces, and we're gonna be cursing at the Department of Health that it came up wrong. But I guess that's normal, we take it that way. I'm just pointing out that it's up to us if we succeed. Of course, vaccinations and all that we can do will continue to be done, but you will help us a lot if you protect yourself. So not the PES, but the packages do. When will this system of opposition be given to comments? When will he be introduced to the public? We are preparing this system together with epidemiologists. I would be happy to consult him with the opposition, and even today I spoke with Dr. Dostál, who is the shadow minister of the Pirát, and I told him that my idea is - because the epidemic, according to me, runs without any political ambition, whether or not there will be elections and whether there is a electoral struggle or not - that we need all the smart people to help us in this situation, and I would very much like to say this, and I would like it here with full seriousness, if you decide, you who are shadow ministers on each side to contact me, and I will be happy to sit down with you and look at what good and bad ideas you have, we will discuss them and we will fight the epidemic together. As I say, health and health are important to all of us, and it should not be an instrument of political struggle, so we are very happy to consult with you. And even before the question came up, I thought of this solution. Other specific questions from citizens - when is the estimated opening of fitness centers? Like I said, dates, not dates. This also applies to other questions. When will there be an opening of the restaurants' gardens, their indoors? When will there be an opening of clothing and other services? Which school years will not be able to go back to the presentation mode by the end of the school year? When will practical teaching be restored? Maybe there's a swallow in there because we talked about it. But I'll tell you again, it's one of the nearest package arrangements, but I'm sure I won't tell you if it's going to be today, tomorrow, in 14 days or a month. [[20.00 hours]] When will there be an extension of the possibility of meeting, how many people could meet in the next wave? I guess we can all meet if the court tells us to, but I hope he doesn't tell us that we have it written and, above all, justified that the lawyers will understand. And how will the next start of vaccination registrations take place? That was actually a general question. We'll proceed with registration until there's enough vaccine to get you to your doctor, and he'll inject you with the vaccine. Will it be treated as an age group in Slovakia? Yes, so far, we will follow the age groups in particular, unless there is a small priority group, such as crisis infrastructure and so on. Will there be a wider start of registrations? When can you expect to start registrations for people under 30 years of age? It's still true what I said before. In what period can you expect a reservation of the date? You guys are so inquisitive, but that's the same thing as coming to the doctor, he's gonna do your hip joint, and you know you're gonna be sent to rehab in five days. So you're like, "Okay, I'm going to rehab in five days, but in five days, you have an infection, and you're staying in the hospital for another 14 days. That's exactly what's happening here with the virus. You just can't say everything in medicine for a specific person at 100 percent. You can make some average somewhere, some group, but what's good for you. This is the same as when a person makes nothing in one village and the other 100,000, they both have an average of 50,000, but that doesn't help you with a particular patient. School attendance is, of course, a priority for us, so it should be at first. What's the deal with weddings, if you can invite more than 15 people, or you can't. Again, it certainly will succeed sometime in the future. And the way the police here look at it, I've already talked about it, that they can't interfere. I think that's her problem, and I'm sure she'll be interfering where she sees that the intervention is needed. Testing in schools, how it will continue. We started and started with antigen tests because it's the easiest. It's the easiest for users, so it's the easiest for logistics. There's nothing you can do about the PCR test at school, you need a top-of-the-line lab to process it, and from those 400,000 students who stick a stick up their noses, you need to get it to some lab. It's not that simple, and we don't want to start at this point, like this week, a system that doesn't work. So let's assume that without antigen tests, we can't do it, they will, and they will be permanent. We certainly need to look for the ones that are the best quality, that is clear, but on the other hand we will think very much about PCR tests - they are more accurate, they are more comfortable for children, but it is more complicated. Between us, I haven't seen a PCR test for CZK 59 yet. I can imagine that this could be an expensive collection set, but what goes on in the lab is in the hundreds of crowns if one really has the method extremely cheap, but sometimes it's close to a thousand. But I'd be happy to learn if there are PCR tests for 59 crowns, so I'm sure we'll use them, because that would be practically as expensive as those antigen tests, and that would be great. But count the logistics and everything else involved. What about the final years when school practice will be renewed, what about practical maths? What I said here is true: dates yes, but dates no. Information regarding the evolution of the epidemiological situation. We consulted with the Ministry of Education. I am in contact with the Minister of Education more or less several times a day, consulting various things that are needed for our decision-making. I also go to school facilities a little bit to see if PCR tests work, how difficult these kids are. [[antigenic?]] On Monday morning, I visited this kindergarten here in Prague at 7:00 a.m. and I talked to little Péťa there, who explained to me that the antigen testing was no problem at all, that he would brush his teeth at home in the morning and then clean his nose in kindergarten, that it was perfectly normal. Then, of course, the PCR test is a little more complicated, but I just ran into those kids who liked it, he was this little chemist who played with it, and it was pretty easy, no one was crying, no one had nose blood, and all the tests worked. Maybe it was because I was there as a minister, maybe I'll run around some schools like this, that it'll work in other schools. Testing - of course, PCR is gentle. You ask why we test antigen tests twice a week in schools and kindergartens and in competitions only once a week. Of course, twice a week is better, but it's also double the cost, and industry has something to say about it. Otherwise, of course, twice a week is safer, and we want to ensure the safety of our children at school and offer them. As is the case with children who have a problem with the removal of material from the nose or mouth and whether they can or cannot be provided with distance teaching. Of course, if a child resists and doesn't want to take a test for some reason, we just won't force him to do it just to be in school. She can go to distance classes, except under the circumstances that are set up right now, parents can't have caregivers. On the other hand, if a physician writes a certificate for children, for example, for autistic children, but also for other reasons that are from the health indication that the child cannot take material, then it is possible that the parents will also receive a caregiver. So it's being treated, it's in another extraordinary measure that we've released, I think yesterday, and it's available on our website at the Ministry. As we should consider: testing is of course essential to identify infected individuals. On the other hand, we clearly prefer to invest in vaccination, because vaccination is what protects us against viral infection, and that is really our first priority. Another priority is the protection of patients at risk at the start of the disease, where there are today monoclonal antibodies that allow the suppression of viral infections so that they do not attack important organs, such as lungs, and so that the patient who is at risk does not get unnecessarily hospitalized or ungodly to an intensive care unit. So if you're a risky patient, be sure to ask your physician to write a recommendation to you at the center where you can get a biological drug. It's an infusion hour that's running, you'll spend another hour there in the break room, you're leaving as an outpatient home, and you have a huge chance of never seeing the hospital again in this disease. [[20.10 hours]] As far as the antigen test results are concerned, I'm sure we'll keep an eye on it. We even have a perfect electronic system for this, like PCR testing or results or everything that's related to covid, so we follow antigen testing in the same way. It's an academic debate so far, but let's think about why the antigen tests in the schools that were conducted on Monday are so little positive. I mean, we didn't find out what was going on in the school team, but, by any chance, the kids were infected at home. And, of course, when he was a lockdown, they didn't get sick at home, they just sat at home, and if there wasn't someone infected, of course, they couldn't catch it. So the tests we did on Monday tell us they don't have covid at home. What happens tomorrow may be a little bit more interesting from an epidemiological point of view, and we can certainly say something seriously next week about whether what we do in schools reflects reality or whether we need to keep looking for something else. That PCR tests are... [[Mr Michalek comes to the speaker and addresses him off the microphone.]] Oh... I can, okay? I've been talking for a long time. But there were questions, so I'm just answering them. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Yeah, okay. So that's another thing. As for the tests, that's what I'm talking about. Child trauma, that's what I was talking about. And, folks, I won't bother you anymore. I see I've really talked longer -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u17	Mr. Minister, go ahead, I will interrupt the meeting at 21.00 in any case, because the time reserved for the House's meeting will run out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u18	Okay. But I like pirát, so I'm sure I'll respect that. And if there are any more questions, I'm sure...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u19	There are several other applications for the debate at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u20	Okay, let's go, I don't want to build the House. So, in the meantime, I'm sure I'd be happy to keep answering questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u21	Thank you. First, there are factual points. Mr Kasal, then Mr Dominik Feri, then Mrs Černochová, is the first to sign up. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would have expressed myself as a paramedic this time. For my colleagues, there is a contradiction between health and law. I'm gonna start by saying that unlike most of you paramedics, we've had those respirators on our mouths for over a year now, and at a time when maybe a lot of you didn't have to wear them in the summer, so we had to keep them at work all the time. It pisses us off, too. I understand and understand the position, the legal position, but I'm going to be absolutely specific right now, and I'm going to complete what has been said here. If there's no contact, there's no transmission. And in a moment, you're here to discuss whether the coronavirus will distinguish between family contact or relatives, whether there'll be two or if there'll be another contact, whether or not the coronavirus will behave at the cabin or in the apartment or elsewhere, for us paramedics it is, I understand that you're all asking, but for us paramedics, that's a completely incomprehensible question from this point of view. Because I'm saying again, the basic premise is, there's no contact, there's no transmission. And I'm saying this with all the seriousness that it bothers me, too, how long it takes, but if we can't stand it, we're going to be dealing with another wave and another wave before the whole Republic is vaccinated. And it doesn't concern the Republic, we can bring something if we go abroad. So it's really about thinking about it. And I'm done, I see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u23	You still have 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u24	I see. Looks like it fell out. And just an example: children meet, they meet in families. In the last week, we've brought three drunks to the hospital over two perm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u25	Thank you. Now, Mr Feri, then Mrs Černochová, then another factual one. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u26	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, briefly for the introduction to my colleague, the paramedic. I totally understand that, and I call on people to behave responsibly. But on the other hand, we have to accept that we are legislators, and we promised to keep the constitution and the laws. The Minister promised as a minister, he also made a promise, and that is a legal point of view, it simply cannot be resigned, we simply have to keep that in the democratic rule of law and the health aspect and the legal aspect can be in harmony, it may not be in conflict. To the Minister. Minister, I'm sorry, you say you want data, not dates, but you didn't even give the data. Unfortunately, you didn't say, like fitness centers, weddings over 15 people will be in the third wave, which happens when the seven-day incidence of 100,000 people is below 100 or something. You didn't say it. We haven't learned anything here, but nothing at all. I just wanted, like, a framework idea of when these things could get on. Don't be mad at me, but that's the deafening emptiness of the government's actions that the government just doesn't have a plan. All governments to the west have a plan, all of them, they just know what they're gonna loosen up. For example, in Northern Ireland, it only says what's in which package, but they just have a plan. The government has no plan. A month and a half here we say the government doesn't have a plan, there's nothing, there's nothing written, nothing on paper. Now you guys... dates, dates. It's not even the data. It's frustrating just like that. That's what you really want to put yourself in the position of someone who has a restaurant, falls on their mouths, is completely exhausted, or has a gym, and doesn't even know it's gonna be in the third wave, the second wave, because the Prime Minister can just switch people, but he can't put something on the paper, something concrete that we can grab. I'm sorry, Minister, but we haven't learned anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u27	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, Mrs Valachová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only in response to the Minister. For one thing, I would like to thank him for partly answering my questions, but just explaining the 58 crowns without VAT is for the saliva antigen test that we bought because the schools didn't just want to rely on the nose ones, as I described, that a number of parents approached us with this request to at least this possibility. But Prague 9, perhaps also Prague 6, did not satisfy those antigen tests and started the full-time PCR testing, which therefore refers to Article 17 of the emergency measure and the way Prague 9 chooses is non-invasive, the test is performed from saliva, which the child takes home to the test tube provided by the school and the sample is examined by a registered health service provider. The result is known the same day and the test in case of positivity also reveals the mutation of the virus. The test not only does not require the presence of parents at school, it is not unpleasant for the child, but also irritates the mucous membranes of the nose and actually the only problem with it is that there is no partial compensation of the urban part. So this is actually what the mayor of Prague 9 is writing to you, so we can make recommendations, or I can contact him and ask him to send you specific companies that do it for them. Let's just all try together to make more alternatives to how to test these kids. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u29	Thank you. Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Valachová is now registered for a point of fact, then Mr Výborný, then two more factual ones. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I really want to respond very quickly to the Minister of Health's reply, because he said that unfortunately he does not know how to return to practice and to secondary schools or something like that. And, in fact, I understand that this seems to be an epidemiology for a day, an hour cannot be said, but on the other hand, colleagues and, in particular, Minister of Health, I ask you, as Minister of Health in the face of this fact, to deal with the current graduates and apprentices of the final years. Because if we do not allow them to prepare for the course we planned and to enter the schools for the renewal of practice and other steps that were part of the plan, then it should be clear from the government as a collective body whether if seniors do not have the chance to have enough time to prepare, so whether we do not really have to think about allowing official graduation, at least in that practical part, even if it means amending the school law. [[20.20 hours]] That's what I think is fair, because we all care about the quality of education and about, of course, the weight of the exams, but on the other hand, we can't look like an ostrich, that we don't see that the situation has evolved, and we can't break the staff above the success of students and students. Only, colleagues, I would remind you that last year we discussed here quite seriously official graduations in a situation where the blackout was 14 days and actually our seniors and apprentices of the final years were fully prepared for the previous years. That is why there has also been an increase in the competence of the Minister of Education. [[Time.]] It's just a reminder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Výborný, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, I'm sorry, I'm really not entirely wise about your performance. Some things have not been mentioned at all, so I would like to repeat some of the questions raised by KDU-ČSL, a colleague of Mr Marian Jurečka. For example, children's groups, which could not resume their activities at this time, were involved in their operation. In small villages and cities, this is often the only option, the only chance for parents and families, and that approach should, in my opinion, be the same as for kindergartens. So that's one question I'm asking you to please respond to. Furthermore, I would ask that we use true data not only towards us but also to the public. You were talking about putting 400,000 children in motion on Monday. That's not true! Because the first degree - together we have about 800,000 pupils and only half of the first degree on Monday went because there is this rotation, so we can't really get into those numbers for such a dramatic number of 400,000, it's less. It's just about putting really true, relevant data into the debate, into the discussion. And one more thing about schools, very crucial and important. I think the information that you want to invest as a state in vaccination is clear to us, we've been talking about this for a year, and that's right. We support this, and the faster the vaccination, the faster these debates will pass, which we have here every week. But as to what your government, which you jumped into this week or last week, considers priority, and in agreement with us, with our opinion and AntiCovid team, which we have as a coalition of the SOLU, is the priority of returning children, the gradual safe return of children to schools. And here really please consider the method of testing children, because PCR testing, I assume most... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Well, unfortunately, this... If I do, I'll check in again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u33	Okay. Mr Kaňkovský now, then Mr Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u34	Good evening, Minister, colleagues. I'll follow up on the previous speakers. Of course, there would be many questions about the current situation. I will follow up on the discussion on today's health committee, where I have raised some questions, and I will say them here in plenary. Situation in the spa: The situation in the spa at this time is illogical for operators, but also for patients. At this point, you insist that only patients who use it or who have it so-called an insurance company can be provided, that is to say, they must have at least part of the public health insurance care paid. Why can't they be in a spa at this point, even self-sailants, if they're in medical care, but like self-sailants? That doesn't make sense either from an epidemiological point of view or from another point of view. That means, that needs to be explained, people don't understand. Then I think it is necessary for all other steps to be truly predictable. A colleague named Dominik Feri has already said this, but also some others. What is lacking at this moment in further management of the pandemic is predictability and also some forward planning. We have some things coming up that need to be dealt with, and we don't have an algorithm on how to deal with children's summer activities, for example, summer camps are coming up. Today, on the Health Committee, we discussed really gambling with the way in which children today cannot engage in physical activities. This is a huge gamble, and as a medic, I know it hasn't been any different for a long time, but now we have to find a way to restore the mobility and sports of children. Otherwise, as my colleague Kasal said on the health committee, the increase in obesity, the physical condition of children - a catastrophic condition. That means we need to work with the Department of Health and the Department of Health and the Ministry of Education on this. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u35	Thank you, and now Mr Kasal, at this point in time with a final point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll turn to my colleague, Feri. You said in your speech, "We are the legislators." Yes, but we are human, and again I say, is there any difference between how the coronavirus will affect the legislator or as a human? It's not. I also perform politely, also with humility, as you said you performed politely, but then you said, but it's legal. And that's the big difference, because I'm saying again, I don't want to raise the health aspect here, but I'm just saying, there are basic parameters of when the transmission is. Yes, I agree with you, let's make a deal, but it usually seems to me that the legal opinion then throws in an axe like that, it can't be that the deal isn't there at all from this point of view. And there's the important thing, because of course it's a challenge out. If the minister here said that the two people didn't, and be reasonable until he was vaccinated, then in another way, we can't say it. In another way, we can't make it happen, because I trust people as much as you do that they'll be reasonable, but they have to be told that way. And if they have any legal decisions, they'll say, "But the lawyer said it like that! And then we paramedics call them "Don't do it," it's not gonna be like that. In the highest wave, when she was in my district, the lady said during the holidays if the daughter can go to the mountains. I said, what's he gonna do with angina? Well, there's five more dads out there with kids from all over the country. That's the reality!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u37	Thank you. And there are two factual points - Mr Výborný will finish, I suppose, his question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u38	Thank you. I'd be happy to finish it, Minister. The question was directed to PCR tests in schools. Please tell yourself, will you do everything you can to get those conclusive PCR tests to the schools? You and our epidemiologists, with whom we consult these things, repeatedly say that there is a sufficient longer frequency of testing if it is PCR tests and at the same time it will be really conclusive. If you're saying that the low numbers from Monday are given by the kids coming from home, please consider nicely that the parents are coming to work. And indeed, families, like businesses, were - once again, epidemiologists say - among the most risky groups. So there's something really wrong here, and I think it's the quality, the weight of those antigenic junks that are in school today. Let's go to PCR tests and that'll help get back to school. And then I'll ask you - I'll tell you a sweet secret. You must really begin to be absolutely clear and understandable towards the public. A colleague of Feri, a colleague of Kaňkovský, said so. Just if you don't start telling people, if the situation is like this and this, we're gonna let the schools in second grade high school spin, if that happens, and we're gonna open retail, one-on-one services, we're gonna make sure that summer camps for children can run, we're gonna let the kids go into the countryside, because the scout squad in the woods is at zero or absolutely minimum risk, and so on. If you don't do this the way they do in Northern Ireland, Britain, Bavaria, you will, unfortunately, end up just like all your predecessors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u39	Thank you. I must call on us to respond, in fact, primarily to the debate, and not to other factual points, so that we sometimes get back into the debate. Now, Mr. Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u40	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President, I fully understand Mr Kasal's view. But all I have to say is that we here can accept a law that says, "You're only gonna hang out with your family, you're gonna go straight home from work, and you're not gonna see anyone else." That would probably be absolutely crucial for managing the pandemic, but it would also be unconstitutional. This is simply a dimension that we must perceive at all times, and we must respect the rule of law. I don't think the lawyers are attacking it, at least I'm not, on the grounds that they'd like it to loosen up here. No, our interest is exactly the same: to manage the pandemic, but to keep the law and to make the rules absolutely clear. That's why we're asking because the police are gonna say something and the Ministry is gonna say something else. Then who's supposed to know? We're asking here because I'm going to follow up on a specific example of whether the police are gonna run into five people who are gonna be throwing frisbee at the park at 50 feet. Is it or isn't it? The minister says, "Don't do it, act responsible." Yes, I agree, I say so too. But simply the interpretation of the Ministry should be clearer than not to do it or be responsible. He should be very specific. Finally, when it was mentioned that we should encourage a health view more. Of course, on the other hand, I remember the negotiations on the pandemic law, when there was a great interest in not having to have an emergency, of course, also on our part, but also on the part of the Prime Minister, who said, "Let's write the pandemic law, let's prepare it so we don't have to have an emergency." And I repeat the experience, I asked the former Minister of Health MUDr. Blatný: Will it be enough for you that you will not be able to limit the free movement of people to master the pandemic? It was February, the numbers were much higher than they are now. He said, "Yes." That means we can beg for something that allows us to do something and doesn't allow us to do something else, but it's the result of what the government wanted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u41	Thank you. There was an application for a check-out, so I checked you out. You can re-subscribe with your cards. Mr Brázdil is reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u42	Thank you for the floor. You, Mr President, may already know what for. I would now like to object to your procedure as you run this meeting, because you have directly challenged: Mr Volný will now complete the technical process. [[right: Excellent]] No way. Technical is because it's technical like mine. It's an objection to your progress. So it's either technical or it's not meant to be finished. Once again, you've made it possible and you've urged Mr. Volný to go finish something. [[Excellent.]] I object, and I would like to vote on it, but there will be little of us, so I would probably end this meeting. But we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u43	Okay, that was an objection to my previous procedure. I'm sorry about that, of course. If there is a request for a vote, I shall call the Members. [[Gong.]] There's an application with priority rights, I assume it's gonna be counterproposal or something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u44	You've developed an information meeting, an information point for the public. You don't want the public to know what the rules are supposed to look like. For another half hour, the minister could have told us something, answered our questions, but you set it up. The YES movement does not want to communicate with the public. Unbelievable. Unbelievable! Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u45	Thank you. I rang the bell. I suppose the Members are coming, and maybe we can still fill that number. Vice-President, with priority rights as well. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm looking at the numbers that are in the O.R., and ANO wins here, ANO sits here listening to the Minister. You don't have a lot of people here, Mr President, so I'd like to forgive the impertinence a little in your place. We sit here honestly, we have no problem, and Mr Brázdil's remark, through Mr President, is absolutely relevant at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u47	I'm completely aware of the objection, I wasn't exactly perfect, for which I apologize. Now, we'll probably wait a little longer to see if we're gonna get our numbers filled. Mr Michálek also reports with priority rights, so I will give you my word and then I will have to interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u48	Look, last year's performances, they're designed for counterproposals. A lot of people here have been waiting for the debate while we were discussing with factual remarks, so I guess we'll have to finish this some other time to get the order for those who were enrolled in the debate and waiting for those two hours to finish the discussion with factual remarks. I would remind you that this is called factual remarks, not technical remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-016-523.u49	Yes, the content of the factual note is either to respond to the debate or to make a procedural proposal in it. According to the voting system, 24 of us are present in the hall. I'll ask you to check again if you're logged in. That is not enough for us to vote. So Mr Brázdil insists on his objection, so I have no choice but to call a break until - I don't know - 20.37, for three minutes, if the treaty meets here. If not, then I would be forced to interrupt the hearing. Thank you, everyone who's stuck with us. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 20.35 to 20.37 hours.]] The honourable Member, honourable Members, Mr Minister, is 20.37, so we will continue the meeting, which I interrupted before the vote on the opposition to my presidency, which would probably have forced me to take turns, although I do not know who. However, there is not enough of us to vote and continue the negotiations. All I have to say is that Mr Válek, Mrs Aulická and Mr Michálek, were still enrolled in the debate. I have no choice but to interrupt the negotiations on this point because we cannot act because we cannot vote, there is not enough of us. The meeting will continue tomorrow, that is, on Thursday, when we have answers to the written interpelation at the beginning, and 15 minutes after the answers to the written interpelation will be included in the 93rd meeting. At 2:30 p.m., oral questioning continues. We will decide on how the next points will continue, if necessary, within the framework of the vote on the agenda. I thank the Minister very much and thank all those who took part in the House's meeting. I'm interrupting the meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow.
