ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u1	247. Members of Monika Červíčková, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Válková Válkova and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities (notary order), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /German press 793/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 793/1. I thank Mrs Monika Červíčková for taking her seat at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask the same rapporteur for first reading, Mr Stanislav Grospič, to move to the rapporteur's table. And now I think it is enough peace, my colleague, for you to state the 793 press for the plaintiffs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I present the parliamentary proposal, which is presented under the number of the House press 793 and concerns the amendment of the notarial order. I submit this proposal together with other ANO colleagues, representatives of ČSSD, ODS and TOP 09. However, I believe that it will also find support for most of you, because if it is adopted it will bring to many entrepreneurs modern and safe tools usable for some areas of business. The central point of this amendment is the digitization of the process of setting up companies, as it will enable a business company of any kind to be established completely online. In this remote way it will be possible to solve other necessary actions during their active operation. I do not need to mention that any extension of the possibility of a distance solution of similar administrative actions is particularly desirable at this time. It will certainly be greatly appreciated by entrepreneurs from among our handicapped citizens, whom this form of digitization can make their business much easier. While the present method still requires the physical presence of the applicant in the notary office, our proposal envisages the possibility that the notary will verify the necessary data with the institutions concerned, which are the basic registers and information systems of the public administration, completely without the physical presence of the applicant, with whom he will deal with everything through a secure video transfer. The last step is the online registration of the company in the business register. In addition, the procedure would apply both to the creation of limited liability companies and to all other types of companies. [[10.20 hours]] A notary entry will be made using official licenses equipped with a chip, which, according to European legislation, will be necessary for all of us in the foreseeable future. According to European legislation, it is possible to further modify the electronic signature of video conferencing and NFC readers on the mobile phone. You can find the details of the process in the explanatory memorandum that is part of this press. In case of good preparation of all necessary documents and documents by the client, it will be possible to set up, for example, a limited liability company within one hour, without physical presence. To this end, the Notary Chamber has created its own secure online channel to verify the identity of clients, allowing it to prevent more purposeful creation of entities. The proposed system stresses legal certainty, safe identification and eliminates the possibility of using modified or falsified identity documents. Moreover, this part of the amendment meets the requirements of the European Parliament's Digitalisation Directive. Another - and, in my opinion, equally important - part of this amendment is aimed at greater protection against theft of companies, which unfortunately happens mainly thanks to relatively easy forgery of the verification clause in force. Therefore, this amendment introduces a register of verified signatures in electronic form. On the special website, it will be possible to determine whether the power of attorney is genuine according to the name and date of birth mentioned in the signature verification clause. This will increase not only the safety of transfers in companies but also in the real estate register. This electronic record will be functional within notaries' offices, but in no way limit other means of verifying signatures such as the Czech Post, Czech POINT etc., where electronic records are not implemented. A higher level of security for the verification of the power of attorney can be seen as a certain above-standard and is up to every citizen, entrepreneur, for which type of verification he decides. The third amendment introduced by this amendment concerns an agenda and apostil, namely improving their availability. Currently it is possible to obtain an apostil for the notary document, which is a clause of the authentic documents proving the signature and stamp of the notary on the document for the purpose of their use abroad, only in Prague at the Ministry of Justice. This agenda shall be handled by the Office at the time of official hours in the Ministry's building or may be applied for by correspondence, in which case a period of one month shall be in force. Many companies deal with this relatively difficult availability through intermediaries, which is associated with relatively high financial costs. On the other hand, the amendment envisages issuing apostilles by regional notary chambers, which will make life much easier for the business public who uses these services. It will thus be brought significantly closer to all regions and will certainly reduce the costs associated with obtaining apostil. In conclusion, I would like to say that a team consisting of representatives of the Notary Chamber and the Ministry of Justice cooperated on this parliamentary proposal. He was further consulted with representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade who also expressed their support for the amendment. He was also discussed with the Ministry of Justice, with whom we are preparing an amendment, which will balance the comments they have made in the context of the comments procedure. The government discussed this amendment in April of this year and gave it a positive opinion. The proposed legislation has an impact on public budgets only in the part concerning the designation of the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic as an additional apostile body, namely the impact on the state budget can be assumed. The proposed legislation will not have an impact on other public budgets. In the case of the establishment of a new registration of verified signatures and a collection of documents, as well as the technical implementation of the writing of a notary entry in electronic form without the physical presence of participants or other persons, the legalisation of the electronic signature and other modifications foreseen by this draft law, the technical implementation will be carried out by the modification of the information system of the Notary Chamber, which it will finance in full from its own resources. This solution has been discussed with the Notary Chamber and it agrees with it. In this section, the proposed legislation will therefore have no impact on the public budget. As I have already said, a detailed explanatory note is inserted into the system and is, of course, fully at your disposal. I believe that the simplification of at least some business activities and the extension of tools to higher business security are of interest to all of us. The higher degree of digitization of the business sphere is undoubtedly very desirable. Therefore, I would like to ask you for the support of this amendment and its release for further reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u3	Thank you, Mrs Monika Červíčková, for being a plaintiff's representative. I will now ask Mr Stanislav Grospič, who is the rapporteur for the first reading, to present his intelligence report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, I would therefore like to take up my report and say that a group of Members is presented with a bill amending Act No. 358/1992 Coll., on notaries and their activities, the so-called notary order, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended. The submitted law proposes to establish a new register of verified descriptions and a collection of documents led by the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic and these systems will include data on legalizations carried out by notaries, notary entries written with notaries. In order to increase legal certainty, it is then proposed to establish a public remote access to such systems, where the authenticity of the verification clause and notarial registration can be verified. In addition, the possibility of writing a notary entry in electronic form, together with proof of the identity of participants and other persons without their physical presence, is proposed using means for remote identification and authentication and the possibility of legalising electronic signature by a notary. Pursuant to Article 6 of the Convention of 5 October 1961 on the abolition of the requirement for the verification of foreign public documents published by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 45/1999 Coll., the Convention on Apostile, the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic is entrusted with an apostilation agenda of public documents, which it has drawn up, issued or verified by a notary, so-called notary documents. It is proposed to discuss data in the register of pledges, existing lists and records, as well as newly established, register verified signatures and document collections with basic registers, through an agenda information system which plans to build the Notary Chamber of the Czech Republic at its expense. [[Connecting?]] With this agenda information system, notaries will also be able to use data from the agenda information systems to which they are entitled pursuant to § 9a to § 109f of the notary order. The scope of the data used is extended so that the processes envisaged by the bill can be implemented, for example for identifying a natural person without his physical presence through videoconferencing. Furthermore, the petitioner proposed the legislation necessary to make the notary activity more effective and to adapt the legislation to the needs of practice. As regards the proposed changes in the Act on Administrative Fees, it is proposed to increase the administrative fee from CZK 100 to CZK 300 for the legalization of judicial authentic instruments, including execution and notary, intended for use abroad in the form of an apostolic clause. This fee was first fixed in 1998 and has not been adjusted since that year and thus does not reflect the increase in costs associated with the apostolic agenda and no longer reflects the actual amount of costs associated with this operation. In addition, it is proposed that the fee for verification of the signature be explicitly anchored for use abroad. This will increase the administrative fee from CZK 30 to CZK 100 for verifying the official signature or official stamp on the document or on its copy for use abroad in the form of a legalization clause. The amount of this administrative fee has not been changed since its introduction in 1994, nor does it reflect the increase in the costs associated with the legalisation agenda and no longer reflects the actual amount of costs associated with that operation. Finally, it is also proposed to increase the consular administrative fee from CZK 100 to CZK 300 for verifying the prints of official stamps and official signatures on Czech documents or documents by marking the legalization clause, including the verification of Czech public documents intended for use abroad in the form of an indication of apostolic clause. In this case, too, the increase is justified by the increase in costs associated with the legalization and apostolic agenda, since it no longer reflects the real amount of costs associated with these actions. [[10.30 hours]] Overall position as rapporteur: I would like to say that it is not clear for the proposal to be tabled why such an adjustment must take place. The reasoned report does not elaborate any further, does not explain in any way how the practice so far is inadequate and what reasons actually lead to such a change. It is also not clear what reasons lead to an increase of one of the items of the administrative fee from CZK 100 to CZK 300. Nor does the explanatory report contain this fact and does it not explain to a sufficient extent. The proposal also suffers from significant legislative technical deficiencies. The Government has given a favourable opinion on the draft law submitted. However, it made him subject to the recommendation that the text of the draft law be drawn up in the framework of the next legislative process according to the comments. The government also points out that the proposal allows the notary to draw up a public document in electronic form, with the fact that the notary can verify the identity of the client remotely. However, it considers this to be a contradiction with the Act on certain measures against the legalisation and proceeds of crime and the financing of terrorism pursuant to Act No. 253/2008 Coll., which states in Section 10 when a public document must also be considered to be a public document drawn up by a notary for the purposes of mediation and identification. Furthermore, the Government draws attention to the non-compliance of the draft section 64a of the Notary Order, which allows proof of the identity of persons remotely with the Electronic Identification Act and Act No. 250/2017 Coll., which states in its provision § 2 that, where a legal regulation or enforcement requires proof of identity, identification can only be demonstrated using electronic identification by means of a qualified electronic identification system. The government then also finally draws attention to the unclear regime of administrative fees and also draws attention to the shortcomings of the legislative technical nature. Despite these comments, although I was originally determined to speak in the next debate and to propose a return to the law for recasting, I would recommend that we allow the passage through the eight quite fundamental and fundamental reservations of the government which it interpreted in its opinion to this law to be made possible through this law to first reading. However, I am not inclined to what may happen here in the debate, which is a reduction in the deadline for 30 days. That's how many news reports he's got.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u5	I thank the rapporteur and record his application for the debate that I am opening. Mr. Jan Chvojka was the first to apply with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u6	[[Entering Into Speech]] . Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I didn't even apply with priority rights, but since you've already called me, I've come. I apologize to my colleague Válková. I also signed this press. For the ČSSD club we can say that of course we also support the important and important novel of the notary order. In principle, the press has already been mentioned in substance by both the petitioners' representative and the rapporteur's colleague. This means: I will not repeat the individualities of the press, it is only necessary to say and summarize that not only last year - but it seems that this year too unfortunately will be exactly the same - it has shown us that online communication is now, unfortunately, absolutely necessary at this time. No one knows for sure how the pandemic situation will develop. It is good what is happening now, the lockdown, to use it for digitization, to try to learn more to communicate with citizens through a digitized form, and not only to go everywhere with papers and meet at various general meetings or elsewhere. I must say that this is the next step and one of the things where the pandemic has shown that such things through electronic platforms can modernize the country and speed things up. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, our economy is losing significantly, and I think we can support it in some way by supporting the development of the economy. We will relieve entrepreneurs and thus simplify the start for new entrepreneurs. Therefore, it will certainly have clear support for us and we look forward to hearing in the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u7	Thank you, Mr Jan Chvojka. Now a Member of Helena Válková and registered Stanislav Grospič. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, the information presented to you by this press has already been heard here, this proposal for a novel of the notary order, both from a professional point of view, which has been fully handled by the lead promoter, Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Mrs. Červíčková, and I want to thank her for the initiative and thank her for that, because it was basically such an electoral task. I must say, because we promised it, as far as I know, already in the first term, which went into the second term, and there was a need for someone to activate this task and, in close cooperation with the Notary Chamber and the Ministry of Justice, eventually brought it into the form that is presented to us. There was also information of a political nature, as this press will now welcome, if we really transform it into an approved amendment, our public. So in my performance, I'm going to limit myself to three areas. The first is to add what didn't come out here, or it sounded so vaguely that I didn't catch it. There is also an amendment to Section 14 of the Notary Order, which allows for a more flexible replacement of a notary who has been removed or has died, when the notary chamber will establish for the time when the notary office is vacant, the so-called alternate. Of course, it has also been done to the present day in a way that did not leave the notary office completely relaxed in the sense that notary activity would not be carried out, but sometimes there have been delays. Now it's hard to determine how it's going to proceed. I will not tire you of it, it is in the press, but it is, in my opinion, an important organisational change, which in such cases, which unfortunately also receives an appeal - the death of a notary - will ensure that the public has access to those activities, or activities, notary acts, at a shorter time than it has been. Then again, I want to underline what has already been said here. It is a very desirable change in the apostilation agenda, when the apostilation service, that is, actually, the verification of the documents to be used abroad, would be decentralized. And that is a pretty big breakthrough in the current centrally managed - and I must say, as the former Minister of Justice - the bureaucratic agenda that the Ministry of Justice was in charge of with all the responsibilities involved. And I believe that we will finally be among all the other neighbouring countries, where the notary authorities will handle this quite well, as far as I know. I don't know if all Europeans can confirm that here, but certainly many of them, and finally, within this amendment, the notary chamber, the notary, will be able to verify the document. [[10.40 hours]] And I think that the supervision carried out by the Notary Chamber on whether the verification agenda will run well over individual notaries - and, of course, the Ministry of Justice, which may also intervene in certain cases - is sufficient. Moreover, we know that the Notary Chamber has never failed the public in the past, as it has ever done in other areas of justice in a broader sense. So we have no reason to believe that there might be any development that might lead us to regret that we have decentralized the apostolic service. So, as far as I'm concerned, it's a supplement. Otherwise, all the most important things have been said here, both from the rapporteur's mouth, which pointed out what I wanted to point out, that at second reading we will still have work to do with this amendment because, even if I am a co-president, I am not hiding that I have not been involved in the work as much as I would have had to. So I know that, within the Constitutional and Legal Committee, the changes that the Government, or the Ministry of Justice, points out, need to be worked up and arranged in some ways with the Notary Chamber. So there's work to be done, but it's definitely not to be returned. This is what I think that we would really set demands on this press too high, unlike others, where it would be for a return, and we are letting them into second reading. And I also intercede for myself here at the counter to send this amendment to the second reading, thereby fulfilling our commitments from the past period. Those of us who are here know that we have promised to the public that even with the help of electronization, we will be able to move faster in this area, that we will submit the corresponding amendment to them, and it will only happen now. The press was submitted about a year ago. I'm guessing March? About a year ago, 2020. So he's been here a long time, and it's high time he went through the whole legislative process - approved him today and moved him to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u9	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now with the rapporteur's priority right, then the appellant's. [[There's a Mrs. Wormbear coming to the counter.]] Madame, I must abide by the Rules of Procedure. If the rapporteur prefers you in your performance, then... Yes? In that case, Mrs Monika Červíčková for the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u10	Thank you for your kindness. I would just like to repeat once more, although I have already basically said this in my explanatory report, but to make it one more time. We, of course, are aware as submitters that there are certain, I do not want to say directly shortcomings, but there is room for work, especially in view of the Government's comments. And since the government has already discussed this press in April of last year, we have been working on this for quite a long time and we are really ready to present settlement and preparation of these comments so that it is acceptable for all these ministries, and especially for you, for Members. So let me just say that we are really ready to put forward a good amendment that will address the government's comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u11	Thank you, Mrs Monika Červíčková. Now, the rapporteur in his speech. I mean, not as a rapporteur, but as a Member. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I would like to mention here more of the comments that the government has put in its position that it will not be quite easy to deal with here. That's why I've been talking here that the 30-day deadline that may sound like a shorter period here seems too - I understand that there's an interest in this law going through as quickly as possible - on the other hand, it seems too short. First, the Government points out that, although it generally agrees with the draft law, it considers it innovative, it nevertheless points out that in the next legislative process it will be necessary to clarify the relationship between the draft law and Law No. 253/2008 Coll., on certain measures against the legalization of proceeds from crime and the financing of terrorism, which I consider to be a very serious matter. The Government further notes that the proposal for a newly supplemented provision of Section 64a of the Notary Order to prove the identity of persons at a distance should be brought into line with the regulation of Section 2 of Act No. 250/2017 Coll., on electronic identification, which states that if a legal regulation or enforcement requires proof of identity, it is possible to prove identity using this electronic identification only through a qualified electronic identification system. It then goes on to elaborate that, from 1 January 2021, Law No. 49/2020 Coll. adjusted by means of electronic identification with a high level of guarantee within a qualified system, but the law does not reflect this because it has a relatively older date of the draft. He's been lying here since March - sometimes we've even talked to the translator - last year. Thirdly, in the proposal submitted, it absents an assessment of the compliance of the proposed legislation with European Union law. The explanatory memorandum to the bill lacks an assessment of the compatibility of the proposed regulation with, inter alia, Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data. Fourthly, the proposed first sentence in § 35a para. 2 of the notary order seems redundant to the government, because what data can be used from the basic registers is already being modified in part 10 of the notary order. So it is also necessary to deal with this, because the government is proposing to delete this provision here, but it is only possible to do so by an amendment. The Government also points out that the "place of residence' is not an institute, which is generally known, especially in relation to the one regulated in Law No. 133/2000 Coll., on population records, and I think it is essential, and birth numbers. This is a matter that should also be dealt with by this amendment to the Notary Act, because it would be more appropriate to indicate, for example, the place of permanent residence or other residence in the Czech Republic, for example, the address of residence outside the territory of the Czech Republic. Sixthly, the government is accusing that it would be good to take account of the fact that certain data to be used by a notary under the proposed legislation from the basic register will not be included in the basic registers until 1 February 2022. So this is a serious fact and it is a newly inserted data in Section 109a of the Notary Order, so there would also be a need to reconcile these things. The seventh government then, in the draft law presented - the administrative fee regime is not fully clarified by the government. Which I believe, too, because there is not enough justification in the explanatory memorandum. And I pointed it out in my intelligence report. Finally, the bill contains some shortcomings of a legislative technical nature and it is recommended to revise its text in that direction. This applies in particular to § 64a para. The application of the standard reference to a Regulation of the European Union may, for example, be recommended in such a way that, in accordance with a directly applicable European Union regulation governing electronic identification in the case specified in a footnote, the full name of the relevant Regulation of the European Union. [[10.50 hours]] So I just wanted to point out that the government's complaints are of a serious nature. I do not underestimate them, and I believe that in the second reading they will be corrected and taken into account so that this law can then pass through the third reading and can be adopted by the Chamber of Deputies without being returned to us by the Senate with the fact that we did not accept certain serious shortcomings and reservations, and ended up outside, in the den of history, and was not actually even accepted at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u13	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič for his speech. Mrs Helena Válková in the debate will still respond to the factual remark. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just very briefly. Now, just a moment ago, we have passed a law here, which, in terms of the potential opportunities to intervene in the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, is much more significant and, say, riskier, for seven days of the Military Intelligence Act, and here we are talking about 30 days. What seems at first glance to be a very comprehensive list of the most serious or fundamental shortcomings, in fact - I am applying for the job and I am quite happy to do it in part, of course, in cooperation with other colleagues and colleagues - it is not so difficult to remove it. Even the government is already saying how to proceed, and it recommends the procedure. So if we consider him and we choose the procedure - and in the meantime the petitioner also said that consultations are ongoing, and the legislation is prepared for this at the Ministry of Justice - we will be sufficient for 30 days. So if the 30 days sound, so in order to actually succeed in the press - and in the Senate, one never knows - I myself experienced this yesterday with a relatively easy press, amendments to the Code of Law on Administrative Procedure, so it is never certain that it will not return back to you - so also at the end of our term of office, and we are slowly coming into it, I also propose 30 days. Or they'll be proposed by the petitioner herself. And I'm for them. I'm with them on this law. That can be handled. And I think I already have experience when it can't be done and when it can be done. Here, as a lawyer, I'm saying that in those 30 days it's gonna be okay, it's gonna be okay without a lot of trouble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u15	Yes, I am, and the rapporteur also, a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion. Deputy plaintiff, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u16	Thank you. I would very much like to propose a reduced period of 30 days to discuss, because I really - I don't want to say for sure, but I'm almost certain that we will satisfy all the requirements to satisfy those comments. But in particular, I am absolutely convinced that we need to digitize and we need to make life easier for our entrepreneurs. So much for supporting the reduction of the deadline to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-004-247.u17	Okay, thank you. I ask who else to debate because I no longer register any further applications for the debate. If no one, I am done with the debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words - the plaintiff, the rapporteur? It's not like that. The application for repayment or refusal was not submitted. The rapporteur, is that correct? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] We can therefore proceed with the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. I will, therefore, continue to engage so that colleagues and colleagues have a chance to take part in the vote on this matter. We will decide on the commandment to the guarantee constitutionally-legal committee in the vote number 256, which I will begin. I'm asking, who, for the commandment of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, is a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 256, 89 present, for 75, against no one. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Is the motion for a commandment to a committee other than constitutionally-legal? It's not like that. In that case, in the debate, there was a proposal to shorten the deadline for discussion by 30 days. We're gonna decide the number 257 vote that I started, and I'm asking... [[Member of the War off microphone: 30 days.]] It's the same thing. About 30 days, i.e. 30 days, versus a legal 60-day deadline. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 257, from 89 in favour of 64, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been directed to the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you to the representatives of the appellants, thank you to the rapporteur and end with paragraph 247. We'll continue with the first readings, and that's point number.
