ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order) and on the amendment of other laws, as amended, and some other laws /German press 545/ - second reading We suspended this item on Tuesday 27 October 2020 at the 62nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and adjourned it by resolution No. 1322 to the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The item was interrupted in the general debate. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Social Policy Committee. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints from 545/1 to 6. At the same time, this press was delivered to you by the House document 7155, which contains the wording of the proposed Act concerning the processing of amendments by the constitutionally-legal committee. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the plaintiff, Mrs Marie Benešová, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Marek Výborný - who will be changed for Mr Jan Chvojka, which I will leave to vote on as a change to the rapporteur. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? [[Question from the O.R. about what's being voted on.]] Change of rapporteur. Who's against it? In the vote order number 3, 89 Members signed up for 72, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. So I will ask the rapporteur of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Mr Marek Výborný, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Marek Výborný is the first to be logged in. Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I will only allow myself, at the beginning of my speech, to fulfil partly the reporting role. Although you have described it quite cleverly here, I merely recall the situation in which we are in, which is not quite common on the House's premises, because the House's press 545, the amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Enforcement Order, which has already been distributed to Members on 9 July 2019, is undergoing a rather long and detailed discussion and a resolution has been adopted in the framework of negotiations at the Constitutional and Legal Committee after the first reading, which the honourable House has then confirmed, namely that this House's press will continue to be discussed in the wording of amendments approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee. [[17.20 hours]] For this reason, the House document 7155 was created, which is available to all of you and where we have also set the appropriate deadline for you, as Members, to be able to prepare your amendments to this House document, which is at this time the carrier of the House press 545. That is why the second reading was also interrupted at the meeting on October 27, 2020, so you can see that the space here has actually been created exclusively for each Member. And I am happy as rapporteur as well as chairman of the subcommittee on the issue of enforcement, insolvency and debt relief that we are returning to this today. I would ask very much that we also be able to complete this second reading today. For this reason, Mr Vice-President, I would like to make a procedural motion for us to vote today on this matter or within this meeting after 19 o'clock. Thank you for letting us vote on this. As I say again, it's the government's press. I've already described the reasons, I won't go back to that when I'm on the agenda. And it would be appropriate for us today to actually be able to complete the second reading in print 545, to move it to the constitutionally-legal committee. As chairman of the subcommittee, I am also prepared to convene him, if we would then prepare not only the question of voting procedure, but also the opinion on individual amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so that we can bring the legislative process to an end during the coming months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have registered your procedural request for a vote and a meeting after 19 o'clock until this press has been discussed. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of negotiating after 19 o'clock until this press is negotiated here? Who's against it? Voting order number 4, 74 Members registered, for 30, against 1. The motion was denied. We are continuing the general debate. Mr Marek Výborný will continue his speech in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor. I don't fully understand, I confess. So either we have ambition to deal with these things - a government proposal - or we don't. Since everyone saw who actually voted in favour of bringing the House press 545 back to committee and finishing it, let everyone take a picture of it. At this very moment, in order not to delay the negotiations too much, and if possible to move the House press forward, I will keep the key debate on the amendments before the third reading here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Very briefly, I will just go over the amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. So I am really missing out on what I had prepared for some more extensive performance that I consider important. But let us go to the various amendments. I've loaded several of them into the system, and I'll log on to them. I'll take it one step at a time. The big issue often seems to be that only territoriality is dealt with when it is said execution. I'd warn you about that. The House document 7155 already contains a number of provisions that have been approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which are important and key, and I am pleased to do so. We can already do a lot of help. What the constitutionally-legal committee has supported is, for example, a "graceful summer." A folklore proposal that we want to address just the past, or the debts that we've brought from the past. What went through the constitutionally-legal committee is simple. In the event that the debtor has a debt to any public institution and they are specifically listed in the amendment, it will be given an exclusive opportunity, but not a one-off, not a long-term, transitional provision only for half a year from the effectiveness of the law. There will be three months of room for the debtor to prepare for the situation. And then he'll have three months to pay - because what we said is true, debts should be paid - to pay off the entire principal of his debt, but it will be on the Margo State, the state public institution, to forgive all the accessories, that is, interest, penalty, penalties, fines and so on. That is what we already have in the House document 7155 today. I will then apply to the amendment, where this instrument, where I propose to apply this procedure also to private debts, for private relations, where, of course - because we are aware that we are interfering in private relations - exactly in the spirit of what the Civil Code already contains today, which defines the moral amount of principal accessories at the level of its amount, that is, at 100%, we are based here on model one plus one. That means: you have three months or six months to pay the principal you owe, and no more than once for accessories, interest, penalties, periodic penalty payments, etc. - if you haven't already done so by chance, because very often the principal is overpaid today - and if you do so, the debt, the execution will actually be stopped without us knowing it in any way, and the Minister knows it, has burdened the courts. We really need to see the legitimate demands of the courts here, and we are really dealing with them. And even the bailiff doesn't come in short, because as with my colleague Patrik Nacher, we're putting a stop to futile bailouts - and he's going to sign up for it, so I'm not going to get much divorce here - so we're counting on the executioner to be paid an amount of CZK 750, flat-rate as the costs of the execution proceedings. We're coming out of the data provided by the Executor Chamber, which is talking about 740. We rounded it to 750, and we consider it perfectly appropriate. I just want to point out that the "graceful summer" does not apply logically, correctly and fairly to claims which, by their nature, are sanctioned, educational or fulfilling general prevention, that is to say, penalties for cash, property penalties, compensation for damage to health, or things related to the recovery of maintenance and so on. Of course, there is no way to apply this favor in the form of a "merciful summer. " So that's one amendment. The second amendment - I have already indicated it here: territoriality, territorial jurisdiction of executors, spoke of it by President Okamura, everyone is talking about it because he believes that execution is only territoriality. It's not true. However, I believe that some form of local jurisdiction of executors would really be desirable and would benefit. I think you know me pretty well over the last three and a half years, that I'm always trying to balance and find some consensus and compromise. That is why we come up with a so-called consumer territory that is based on the principle that if you enforce a debt from an entrepreneur, a businessman, a natural or legal person, then you have an exclusive option to choose your executor freely, because often it is also more demanding, more complex, etc. But if it is a non-business person, then it will actually go with the circuit circle, as it is perceived within the regional local jurisdiction of the executors, in order to ensure the concentration of the management and at the same time to ensure that the executioner is close to the debtor. It is the principle of consumer territoriality, which I will read in two versions - in one pure form and in the other, where we are aware that we might actually damage some creditors here. This concerns, for example, housing cooperatives, SVJ administrators and the like. In that case, we also propose for these situations the possibility for these creditors to really be free to choose their executor. It's two versions. I will present them in detail then, before the third reading vote, where I suppose there will be more time than there is today. Another amendment to which I will apply with permission concerns the presentation of an overall enforcement obligation in the central enforcement register. It is a very minor change where, in this amendment, which is submitted by the government, the clearly taxatically established data will be kept in the central register of executions. Among other things, there will also be a compulsory registration of the total amount of cash recovery, but it is justified in the government's draft without the costs of execution and costs. [[17.30 hours]] I am convinced that this provision will significantly distort the data that will be available in Central Enforcement Records in this way, and will de facto be unusable both for analytical purposes and for a clear idea of what debts are being enforced in our country, because at this time there would only be principal debts - we already know that there are about 300 billion crowns, but we would get information about interest, interest on late payments, periodic penalty payments, etc. Thus, we believe that this minor change is for the benefit of the matter so that Central Evidence of Enforcement really fulfills the purpose and purpose it has to have. Furthermore, one of the small items that I would like to read on behalf of my colleague Patrik Nacher at the moment, which we are putting forward together, is an amendment which makes it compulsory to issue an electronic file - again explained in detail in the amendment itself, and I will return to this before the third reading. The next amendment concerns the stopping of futile bailouts, which we also serve together with my colleague Patrik Nacher. It's kind of a continuous vessel with the "graceful summer," but unlike the "graceful summer," which is one-time, here we are heading for the future. I am convinced that this is the right step that saves all parties who will be in execution proceedings, including executors. Of course, it will require some cooperation from the state, which is indisputable, but I believe that this is the right step. Since we discussed it with all the actors including the Ministry of Finance, the Czech Banking Association, etc., we have also reached some minor adjustments, which we complement with this amendment together with Patrik Nacher in the amendment already approved by the Constitutional Legal Committee. It's important that these things really fit and work. And the last thing - again, together with my colleague Patrik Nacher, we would like to propose a change in the effectiveness of the law, which, in view of the original state of the press, when the so-called snowman and the very complicated process were envisaged, was proposed with a delay of 18 months from the announcement of the law. We believe that this is completely unwarranted today, and that is why we are proposing efficiency from 1 January 2022, with the exception of some provisions, as the government press has already mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, therefore, very briefly, amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention and I would very much ask all the performers - although I know I can't afford it, because we are in the House and everyone here can talk as long as they want - but let's try to manage second reading by 19 o'clock so that we can get to the finals and vote on things that are very important. Thank you so much for your kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u5	Thank you. Have a good night. Let's keep going. Now, Mrs Ožanová, Mr Navrkal will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me state the reasons for my amendment 7331. This is a summary of technical and factual adjustments already consolidated in print 545. 1. The consolidated version of 545, House document 7155, does not consistently release concentration legislation from the original press 545. It is therefore necessary to amend the Civil Code of Procedure - dismissing the inadmissibility of appeals relating to the reimbursement of the judicial executor and related to concentration, amendment of the enforcement order, provisions relating to the state supervision of other activities of the judicial executor related to concentration, amendment of § 37 para. 5 order of execution, number of paragraph after amendment made by House document 7155 concerning the merger of enforcement procedures by law. A change in the legislation which has responded to the introduction of concentration is being launched. Further action will be taken in accordance with the legislation in force. 2. Amendment of the Code of Civil Procedure contained in press 545 concerning the procedure for enforcement of the decision on severance payments was already included in Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the Coronavirus on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and civil order, as amended. They must be deleted from House document 545. 3. A transitional provision for Section 265a of the Code of Civil Procedure, inserted in the consolidated version - counting on the principal - interest, is hereby introduced. 4. In addition to the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of the original printing 545 concerning the rules governing the exclusion of judicial executors for biases which are unrelated to concentration are added. 5. Amendment to Section 35 para. 6 contained in the consolidated version - possibility to submit, at the same time as the execution proposal, a proposal for a declaration of enforceability or recognition so as to comply with § 43a para. 2 enforcement orders, consolidated. 6. In addition to the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of the original press 545 relating to the register of executions not related to concentration, in particular the explicit inclusion of the fact that data from the RZE are provided to the Ministry of Justice and to the judicial bailiff, the addition of data on the designation of execution court in the RZE, the addition of amendments to the legal regulation of execution of execution clause entered in the RZE, which is related to the decision on declaration of enforceability or recognition, the registration of data on the amount of advance on the costs of execution in the RZE. Following this, in Section 43a - the mandate of the judicial executor by the management of execution - the references to the RZE legislation related to automatic registration in the RZE by EŽOPEX - are amended by the application of the judicial executor for the mandate. The principle is that if EŽOPEX is automatically registered in the RZE, it is an entry made by the court - § 43a of the order of execution, in other cases the judicial executor - § 35b para. 2 execution orders. Both of these provisions together must affect all data entered in the RZE. 7. In the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of original printing 545 relating to incorrect reference in the provisions of the enforcement order governing the procedure shall be added where the performance is subject to compliance with the condition or mutual obligation. Whether the condition or the mutual obligation has been fulfilled or whether the time has been demonstrated must be demonstrated by the competent authority before the execution mandate is issued - the proposal in the original press 545 and the amendment, not until the notification of the initiation of the execution is given, i.e. after the delegation has been issued - the valid text. The incorrect reference is also corrected in § 44 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) order of execution - details of notification of the commencement of execution. This is a reference to Section 37 of the Enforcement Order. The reference is to refer to the paragraphs governing the merger of execution procedures, no longer valid after the addition of the other paragraphs to § 37 by printing 545. [[17.40 hours]] 8. In the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of the original printing 545 relating to the court's decision on the application for a declaration of enforceability or recognition shall be added. It's not related to the concentration. This provision is necessary in order to link the decision of the court on these applications with the authorisation of the judicial executor to conduct the execution and to establish procedural procedures relating to the decision on the application for a declaration of enforceability or recognition. 9. In the legal regulation of the amendment of the judicial executor, the incorrect reference to Section 35b (1) of the order of execution, the data entered in the RZE, is corrected and the repealed provisions of the original printing 545 are added concerning the reimbursement of the costs of execution incurred in connection with the modification of the judicial executor by the agreement in the event that it was preceded by the appointment of a new judicial executor to a vacant executor's office in a running execution procedure. It has nothing to do with concentration. 10. In addition to the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of the original printing 545 relating to the simplified cessation of execution for lack of property shall be added. The suspension decision could be used for tax depreciation purposes. 11. The provisions of the Enforcement Order relating to execution are amended by the establishment of an executor's mortgage on real estate, a change of reference, following the House's press 7155. 12. In addition to the consolidated version, the repealed provisions of the original printing 545 concerning the further activities of the judicial executor in a section that does not relate to concentration shall be added. It is a clarification of the wording of the authorisation of a judicial executor. 13. The legal regulation of the central enforcement record is added, it is laid down that the data on the entitled person is only provided mandatory from the same enforcement procedure and that the data on the cash recovery is regularly updated. The need for changes resulted from the settlement of comments in the amendment of the Central Enforcement Register. 14. The repealed provisions of the original printing 545 relating to the reserve powers shall be added to the consolidated version at the expense of execution. 15. The transitional provision on the enforcement order, which governs the provisions which apply in proceedings initiated before the date of entry into force, is amended and the transitional provision relating to the decision to appeal against decisions of the Chamber issued in administrative proceedings is added. This decision was supplemented by a consolidated version in print 545. Ladies and gentlemen, I will then sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, and with a factual remark, Mr Hrnčíř is reporting. I will point out that factual remarks serve to respond to the previous speaker or to present a procedural proposal. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will just briefly comment on the issue and on what has been said here. In the SPD, we have long tried to help people in debt traps. Therefore, in the area of execution we support the principle of one debtor, one local executor, which means that all executions against the debtor will be dealt with only one executor and the principle of territoriality, i.e. that the execution will be led by the executioner, who is assigned evenly and closest to the place of permanent residence of the debtor. This principle removes the corruption environment and ensures the independence of judicial executors, unlike the current enforcement order, which does not contain any anti-corruption policy and motivates executioners and creditors to corruption and clientelism. It is necessary to strengthen the position of both legitimate creditors and honest debtors. I am a co-president of the amendment to the order of execution to bring these changes. The state should also not parasite people's misfortunes and burden executions of 21 percent of value added tax, but the government is still deaf to solve this problem. We also welcome the amendment of the insolvency law in any direction that will help to dedebt our citizens, of course, in monitoring dishonest intent, so that this institute cannot be abused, because the aim of this law must first of all be to get citizens out of debt traps and return them from the grey economy back to the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u9	Ambassador, I don't know what the point was, or the reaction to the previous speakers. Now, Mr Nacher, then Mrs Ožanová, with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u10	I apologise, I have a factual point, because Mr President said so, on a colleague of the Hrnčíř, by your means, because the factual point really serves to respond to a fellow Member who spoke before him, not as if he was ahead of the front. I wouldn't wait here either... theoretically, and I have to wait here, I have something prepared, I will shorten it in some way, but I will also not apply to the factual one, so I would really like to respect the factual ones and I would ask the President to do the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u11	Okay, in that case, I'm going to point out that a factual remark should not even respond to factual remarks, but I understand that. Mrs. Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, unfortunately, I have to respond. I just didn't understand what was in my technical things, what was the point of Mr. Hrnčíř, because I had technical and factual comments on the 545 press, and I didn't understand which point Mr. Hrnčíř was expressing and whether he could tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, and now Mr Navrkal, who is duly enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to present here an amendment to which I would like to sign up in a detailed debate, but since we have very limited time and the list of speakers is still long, you will all have to read it in the House document where the justification is. So I would also use my word here to ask all the other speakers to discuss this today, if they have reduced the possibility as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. I will ask Mr Kolářík if he is interested in speaking in a general debate which is intended for a general debate on the proposal or its consequences. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll try to be as brief as I can, because we don't have much time, and my colleagues have a lot of admissions. I would like to say that this 545 is one of the most dramatic that I have seen here in the House during this parliamentary term. It has been interrupted several times both in plenary and in committees, there have been no deadlines, but we have it at second reading. Therefore, I thank all those who supported the emergency meeting and who supported the approval of this programme, because even if these are government proposals, it almost seems that the government is putting it on display and it is not a priority for them, it does not want to deal with it, but it will not be for everyone and for the whole government. I do not want to delay, which is why I will now focus on the amendments that I have prepared for this. I'll take it one step at a time. The first is the so-called open data that did not pass on the committee. I've talked about them many times, it's a known thing. This is the provision of data from central enforcement records in some anonymous but clear structure regarding the age, regarding the territory where the executions are, to the total number, principal, average, median cash recovery and so on. You can see in the House document, which is 7393. The second of my amendments, which I have named myself as the protection of maintenance, which is under House document 7391, is doing a simple thing: when the enforcement payment of alimony is being enforced today, for a person who receives an execution, that is to say, five times the annual alimony is being enforced. If I compare it to some numbers, so if someone has three children, they pay 3,000 each, so in case of execution, he is going to get 540,000 plus, of course, the reward of the executor, which is not possible at the beginning in any way. This guy is automatically registered, he doesn't have a chance, he doesn't get a loan, he doesn't get anything, he's just being liquidated like that because of the alimony he owes. I think it should be enforced less, which is why we're only putting in that year - that there's going to be 27,000 plus the reward of the executor, so that the debtor has the opportunity to reflect and pay it now, and he didn't get the big amount right at the beginning, which automatically knocks him out for good. [[17.50 hours]] The third amendment is the so-called covid reward, I named myself, and it is House document 7382. This concerns the remuneration for staff members and members of the components of the integrated rescue system who carry out some exceptional or particularly important work or service tasks, and they are ordered to do some work in connection with the mitigation or fight against the pandemic of the covid, and this reward is in fact confiscated as well. So I consider it immoral, but at the same time I understand that debts are to be paid, so I suggest that at least half of the fee be paid to the debtor so that he has a reward for extraordinary activities, but half of it goes down and sent to the creditors to pay the debt. Another amendment is the House document 7407, my internal name: adhesion benefits. This is quite similar to the previous amendment. My point is that we have, for example, a lot of pensioners who take an extra pension to alleviate some of the injustices caused by the Communist regime or are appreciated for participating in the national struggle for the creation and liberation of Czechoslovakia. They are also confiscated from these pension supplements. I think that if, in history, these people have done such a heroic thing for us and put their lives in the fight against the communist regime and for the emergence of Czechoslovakia, I think that this contribution should not be enforced. It's a slight change in the entire battery of print 545 again. It's really a marginary. Another amendment - House document 7406 - is trying to introduce a bailout fee because we have about 4.5 million people in execution and executions and 95 percent of all new executions are being initiated against people who already have one, so I fear that the system is overfished. I'll take it real quick, I've got a longer set, but I'll make it short. It is overloaded and actually does not work any element that regulates entry into the execution system to regulate debt recovery. There's basically no regulatory element. On the other hand, the legal fee is an obligation, so it would work as a regulation, where the compulsory one can actually find out, at minimum cost, whether his claim has any real possibility to be recovered, if it needs to be the fifteenth, eighteenth in a row, so it probably doesn't, and the whole system can save the execution, burden him and burden the bailouts who have some work to do with it, burden the state institutions that have some work to do with it, and, overall, increase the recovery system to people who pay their claims in execution, because, of course, their payments pay the entire system and the 80 percent executions that are just lying there and that cost money. The introduction of the amount of the fee is set at CZK 400, it is not a large amount. This amount goes to the debtor's credit, so that will be added to his debt. That is why small is chosen, especially for this reason and also because we do not want to significantly restrict access to executions for people who legitimately enforce their claims and who enforce them against people who have a real chance of ever paying their debt. Another and penultimate amendment is House document 7394. It is a ceiling on the number of files for which the remuneration is paid to executioners for executions, which are suspended by law. It's originally Mr. Nacher's proposal to reward the bailiffs. In his proposal, it's on ten files for one debtor. I think it's too much of a reward for bailouts, who often - these bailiffs - broke the law in history, didn't join claims, sold it to different companies so they couldn't connect. So I think that the amount that they should eventually get should be lower, and that's why I propose a two-variety ceiling. The first option is on three files for one debtor and the second option is on five files for one debtor. Then I give you, the honourable House, to consider which of these parameters you choose. The last and most important amendment for me is the local jurisdiction of executors. Here I would like to draw attention to all the colleagues who have already studied the original proposal that we have tabled with the group of Members to pay more attention to it, because we are still putting it in a larger group. It is I, it is Kateřina Valachová, Jan Farský, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Jan Hrnčíř, Jan Čižinský and František Navrkal. It's overworked. It's not the original one. We have incorporated a lot of comments from the Ministry of Interior into it so that it is really as well processed as possible with regard to the burden of the courts and the burden of the whole process, so it is an interesting compromise that preserves clean territoriality, as proposed in the original press, and is quite developed so that the comments are really counted, incorporated. I don't think there should be any significant opposition from the courts or the ministries, or I hope so. So I would like to ask you to support these amendments. In case you don't get something clear, I'm ready to meet you, explain it to myself, and I look forward to hearing this press again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Next is Mr Marek Novák, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I will briefly present to you the amendment by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek, who is registered under number 7366 in the system. The paper proposal looks more or less very simple, but it is a few major changes, because it is also necessary in the context of the ongoing coronavirus crisis to contribute soon to the removal of participants in courts and executors from a wide set of long-term resultsless executions. There is therefore an eminent interest in adopting such amendments to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Enforcement, which can be expected to contribute to reducing and slowing down the increase in the total number of executions and speeding up their natural decline. As regards specific changes as such, we propose a point relating to the original proposal for the introduction of the principle: one debtor - one executor. However, this was deleted from the House Press 545 by a resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee. It was also related to the introduction of a compulsory advance at the beginning of the execution. It is now proposed to launch for its unconstitutionality, and therefore it is appropriate to completely delete the technical change in Section 238 when it binds the inadmissibility of the call to conditions that do not occur. Paragraph 265: there we adjust the method of accounting for the recovered performance. This is a material materiality of the law, not of the procedural law. Unacceptable substantive retroactivity is introduced in legal relations by changing the way payment is counted only in the execution phase. It is forbidden in procedural law. The proposal introduces the inadmissible right retroactivity of accounting for transactions when it regulates the method of accounting in breach of material law as well as any contractual arrangements of the parties on the method of accounting for transactions. Here it must be said that the Civil Procedure Code is a procedural regulation whose role is to regulate the procedure of the court and of the parties in civil proceedings so as to ensure fair protection of the private rights and legitimate interests of the participants, as well as the training of compliance with the treaties and laws to fulfil the duties of honor and respect for the rights of other persons. As regards the admissibility of the debtor's ability to determine the provision to the principal within the meaning of Section 330 (1) (a) of the CRR. 1 and 2 of the Commercial Code, even in the execution of the judgment, is based on the settled caselaw of the Supreme Court, according to which the debtor can determine what is to be fulfilled only in a situation where he provides the creditor with the intention of fulfilling his debt, not in satisfying the claim in the execution proceedings. [[18.00 hours]] In the execution procedure, in addition, the executor always splits the recovered performance into its costs, and only after satisfying the proportional part of the execution costs is the remainder due to the creditor's claim. In this respect, therefore, the proposal is not feasible, since the conditions of its predicted value can never occur. For example, in the case of health insurance, the settlement procedure is as follows. According to Article 15 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following conditions shall apply: 2 of Act No. 592/1992, if the insurance payer has a valid liability to the health insurance undertaking, he is obliged to pay it in the following order: fines, premium premium premium, oldest non-payments of insurance premiums, normal payments of insurance premiums and periodic penalty payments. Individual amounts due under points (a) to (e) shall be paid separately by the payer to the relevant accounts of the health insurance undertaking. The accounting for social security benefits is managed by Section 22, the adjustment of the use of recovered funds in taxes is then regulated by § 175 para. 2 Tax Codes. The payment of the tax recovered by individual means of recovery pursuant to Section 175 shall be applied to the reimbursement of outstanding amounts registered with the tax administrator in question gradually according to those groups. Ad (a) non-payments in respect of tax recovered in the manner in which recovery is applied, ad (b) non-payments in respect of tax accessories recovered in the manner in which recovery is applied. For the reasons set out above, point 7 of the implementing provisions of Section 265a should be deleted. To change the enforcement order and to Article 3 to point 1, delete paragraph 23 § 30, where point 23 is abolished the right of the execution of the operation in the event of no deposit being lodged. This may be liquidation in many ways for a judicial executor. The cost liability for the costs of execution is compulsory by law, but if it is not possible to expect their recovery or if, before execution of execution, the executioner has no means of execution, the participation of the appellant must be ensured. The executor is a private person, an entrepreneur, and the funds for the operation of the executor's office are covered by his property and bear the risk of inefficiencies of execution. The requirement to lodge an advance shall give rise to liability for the outcome of the execution and prudent design in the execution procedure. I'm gonna try to speed up, I'm sorry, it's a lot, it's a lot of changes. To point 2, delete paragraph 44, this time § 43b. Here a mandatory advance is introduced at the very beginning of the procedure, which is justified by the need to regulate the number of execution proposals submitted. Regulation at the very beginning of execution in the form of an advance is contrary to the purpose and purpose of the enforcement procedure, as well as to the deposit institution itself. Here it is necessary to draw attention to the recent proposal of the Supreme Court to abolish the compulsory advance for the submission of a creditor insolvency proposal for its non-constitution. The reasons are the same as the reasons for releasing the compulsory advances in execution. As regards point 3, Article 44 (3) is deleted. Article 4 (1) (a) h), this point is proposed to be deleted due to the removal of the expected exit of the steering concentration in paragraph 37 and further on the ground that the mandatory advance is released at the beginning of execution. The lesson under § 43b is so obsolent. Lessons under § 73a, § 87 para. 5 and 6 also lack the basis when these provisions become obsolent due to the abolition of the mandatory advance at the beginning of the execution. For the purposes of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty, the following For the purpose of repealing § 43, we propose to delete the reference to the non-existent provision that, in connection with the introduction of an advance on the costs of execution, it is proposed to amend § 55 para. 6 execution orders, as mentioned above. To point 5 and to point 76, which relates to § 55 para. 7 to 11. Here the amendment contains instruments such as setting a time limit for the cessation of execution, if it is ineffective, the obligation to deposit an advance on the continuation of execution, the lodging of conditions under which there is no reason to terminate the execution without payment or the finding of the assets, and the extension of the first period for the cessation of execution or the lodging of an advance from three to six years. If we talk about the amount of debt recovery executioner, it has decreased by 17 percent since 2016, the idea of new proceedings is now half as bad as the 2011 situation and the lowest since 2007. It remains, therefore, to deal with the problem of high numbers in the past purchased executions and, first of all, to create conditions for the current ineffective executions to be eliminated and not to accumulate, but to leave room for legitimate enforcement at the same time, as it is a creditor who is also in the right. The proposal, of course, is intended to protect an honest creditor, not pursue the interests of the debtor. It is therefore necessary to establish the boundaries under which the deadlines for the cessation of executions do not run. This is particularly true in cases where the execution has affected the property, but the reason for not ending the execution is the obstruction of the debtor or delays on the part of the executor, the court or it is not possible for legal or procedural obstacles to its execution and satisfaction of creditors. This is the case where the compulsory period of years to pathologically defends itself and delays the execution of the execution and the monetization of assets by a number of appeals and other procedural means, where the execution is subsequently interrupted by co-operation with the previous execution, on the same property, or it is not possible to execute it, because the debtor has been initiated insolvency proceedings or the debtor's claim has not yet been valid. On the issue of costs stopped by execution according to § 89 of the execution order, the execution costs and costs of participants are borne by the one who caused them. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly concluded that, in the case of a suspended execution for the lack of ownership of the debtor, a legal opinion should be applied on the relationship of fault and reimbursement of the costs of execution. And finally, the old executions that are paid for. In general, the purpose of the execution is to recover the creditor's claim. If the execution is successful, then there's no reason to stop it for inefficiency. It would only become inefficient if its further management proved unsuccessful for a period of six years, calculated from the effectiveness of the law or the indication of the enforcement clause, if later. In addition to point 6, point 85 is deleted and paragraph 104 is deleted, which concerns § 73a para. 3. This is a legislative technical change, and it is necessary to quote and refer to the non-existent provisions with regard to leaving the management concentration, mandatory advances and other technical changes. In addition to point 7, § 87 para. 5 and 6. Here is an unnecessary technical change, where it would be necessary to require a deeper analysis to assess the impact assessment, for which there is really no time when we are discussing the issue of regulation of the number of executions. [[18.10 hours]] In view of the cancellation of the compulsory advance at the beginning of the execution, the mentioned section 43b, the number of settlements of the advances that are being disposed of is needed. This also applies to an additional advance, which will be so low that its amount will always be below the level of flat-rate reimbursement of the completed expenditure, amounting to CZK 3 500. The opposite interpretation would be contrary to the institute of flat-rate costs. Point 8 releases the original point 95 § 87 paragraph 8, 9, again technical change. As regards point 9, paragraphs 96 and 97 of Section 88 (1) and (2) are deleted. Point 96 originally introduces the obligation of the executor to issue and send a mandatory order to cover the costs of execution with a call for voluntary performance. However, this is a highly ineffective procedure. First, the basis for calculating the executor's remuneration for interest-bearing claims is increased every day, so the executor in the event of a remuneration, the exact date of which is not only uncertain, but also unknown, does not avoid the recovery of another order, and we certainly do not want that. Point 97 sets out what today's practice normally does, but in connection with point 96 it is actually an unnecessary adjustment. That's why we're proposing to launch. To point 10: here is the same as what I said in the previous paragraph. It's an inefficient modification that's costing the entire executive agenda. In addition, paragraph 5 declares something that does not actually cause any difficulty in practice. Finally, I am sorry, I am finally finishing, finally, to the transitional provisions as regards the amendment to paragraph 7. This is a technical change and a reference to § 44b para. 5. Subsequently, point 10 - old executions initiated before the Act becomes effective will be subject to a new regime for the compulsory cessation of executions. Here, however, it will be possible to deal with historical executions. The start of the period by indicating the execution clause is important in that it is not possible for the execution of the execution procedure to execute the execution procedure according to the execution orders issued. It would therefore be unfair to the beneficiary to benefit from the benefit of termination of execution even at a time when the creditor's claim was not enforced and the debtor deliberately dragged out the proceedings for that reason. Only the period during which the executioner could effectively execute execution will be counted until the deadline. Thank you very much, I am sorry, I have tried to shorten this as much as possible and, of course, I am asking for support, and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. I would like to point out that the general debate is intended for a general debate, there is no need to read the proposals in detail or read them in a detailed debate, and if they are part of the House document, it is sufficient to refer to it. Now, Mr Nacher - of course, I will not prevent any Members from expressing what he likes - Mr Nacher now, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u20	So, ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. Madam Minister, Mr President, I am, I must say, a friend myself, which you will know is that for a whole series of things I would like to say at this point, I will refer to this at third reading. So you, colleagues, can draw a line, so I'm sorry, I'm not so used to looking at paper a lot, because I'm used to talking down, but because I'm going to skip those passages to speed things up, I'm going to see what I have to say and I don't, and when I'm going back to it at third reading. But let me do one sentence in front of the parentheses in general, because I don't have a priority right, and here repeatedly in the last two days, when the opposition is building something up, they take a break, even cumulatively - I haven't experienced it yet, that someone takes a two-hour break, and then the other person takes a break after the break, so it's okay, on the other hand, when we want to discuss something here, someone already has a preemptive feeling that we're actually acting the same way. Well, I'd say this bothers me so much, I'd see it under the motto "I judge you by myself" - it's just that stuff needs to be discussed. I'm gonna say a little more detail here, but I don't think it's possible to deal with it in this way that if something's wrong, he's gonna take a break, while if the coalition party accidentally did it, there's a fire on the roof. You really need to measure all the same subway. And now we will look at this, and I will also respond to what my colleagues, my honourable colleague Marek Výborný, have said, with which I am signed under about four amendments. Colleagues, it's important to say here that we've been cultivating an environment that's worked here for 20 years. And if you look at the changes that have happened here and that we're finishing now, they've been happening since 2014. It needs to be said because I'm going to go back to that, from the point of view of the main point that's being sold here, that's the territoriality that's clearly heading for the future. For the first time, I will read the details in the third reading, but still allow me to make such a real pass by reducing in the meantime the remuneration of lawyers, executors, narrowed things that the executor can confiscate, that is, since 2015, an exhaustive listing, more protected the debtor's husband. We have repeatedly after years, please nicely, increased the lower and upper limit of an uncontainable minimum, three times amended the insolvency law to become interesting to people with multiple executions, 10 and more executions here have 170 000 people. It's pretty obvious they're never gonna make it out of this, and they need to go into insolvency. Why am I talking about this: because when you look at the numbers, in 2011, there were 936,000 people in execution, in 2019 - 507 and last year 408. There's a clear picture of the trend, and that's what I'm going to do, and we got a flyer here today that we're supposed to stop the things that have accumulated from the past, which I don't think the territoriality is entirely in line with, because it's going to the future. For those who don't fully understand it, it's really just about who's gonna be completely new at the execution because who has more executions, and 60 percent of people have three or more executions, so there's a big assumption that they're going to have a fourth, a fifth, etc. And even if territoriality were accepted, he'll still have four executors, the previous three won't be taken away from him. I am saying this here to shake it up, to support the amendments that, in my opinion, make sense: halting futile executions, humanization of mobile executions, we have together, a protected account, it is over, we will see how it works, a so-called gracious summer towards, say, a benefit in relation to public institutions as creditors - they are to set an example when we try to do so with private creditors. And I also add a reduction in VAT for executors and insolvency administrators, in this matter I deal intensively with the Ministry of Finance, and the acceleration of write-off of claims, write off impregnable claims so that they do not unnecessarily solve and complicate it. [[tho]] Where the debtors live, etc., I'll save for the third reading, maybe I'll talk about it here, but seriously, I don't want to prolong it. Court versus county, versus classic regions: I'll save for my third reading. [[Courts?]] Motivation of executors after the introduction of territoriality also compared to Slovakia: I will save for the third reading. Territoriality as a tool of redistribution: colleagues, I have received information from the Executive Chamber, just for information, 26 executors will have an increase greater than 1 000 percent of these cases if the territoriality were accepted. [[18.20 hours]] So there would be a huge redistribution. I'll save it for third reading if it's not black and white. But one thing I can't forgive myself for is that if we're here, please nicely, we want the bailiffs to actually do these things, which means, they stopped executions, they humanized the furniture, they were guides to a protected account, so if territoriality is approved, I'm afraid, colleagues, and let's say that, and we say it at third reading, then what happens at that point? That the bailiffs will be more concerned with themselves, because one of them will have to be fired and others will have to be noticeably recruited. So instead of dealing with the things we want them to do right now that they have the wrong retroactivity, they're gonna have to deal with themselves. An example of a creditor, a natural person, here I will read again in the third reading. I will read the interview with the President of the World Association of Criminal Executors here again in the third reading. I could artificially stretch this place out, but I'm not gonna do it. But it's important that it should be said here, because I know that the President of the Slovak Executor Chamber has always been referred here as a beautiful example. By the way, the territoriality, as proposed by fellow Pirates, only works in Hungary and Slovakia, so we can say. What is interesting, however, is stopping futile executions that sometimes get unfairly into the media, in my opinion, by unfair description that perhaps the bailiffs are getting something there. I'd like to say a few sentences about that, I'll say a little more in the third reading, please, nicely. I think that's one of the few proposals - and I'm glad that seven clubs out of nine are signed under it - which is not black and white. Something helps the debtor, stops, gives something to the creditor, not in the form of funds, but a tax discount. That means he's going to separate serious creditors from the non-serious ones and give something to the bailiff, at this point in time, at 30 percent of the finished costs. I have heard the amendment of my colleague Lukáš Kolářík - five times 750 crowns, which would unite it with the "merciful summer." I'd be happy to support it. That was the response to the amendment. Even in the third reading, I will be happy to explain who will pay it, why the state will pay, how much VAT he has collected in 20 years, who voted here 20 years ago for the executor law to remind us. To make it look like we haven't discussed executions here twice, sometimes it seems from the opposition that perhaps this government is stalling. I have to say for myself, if you look at history, you can clearly see when it originated, when it was the biggest Klondike - around 2010. And it's been cultivated since 2014. I will now get to the amendment, which is why I have talked about it, to stop futile executions, which I will also not describe in detail. I'm gonna save it for my third reading again. So, colleagues, you can look forward to it. There is an amendment under number 7425. I have a feeling that Marek Výborný will sign up for this, which specifies when the three years actually begin. This means that there the "started before the date of entry into force of this law for a period of three years" is changed to "in which the order for enforcement has acquired legal power" so that it is clearly identified when the three years and since when it runs. It also states that if the executor is a payer of value added tax, he is entitled to a remuneration including VAT. This brings us back to VAT, where my goal is to put it at a lower rate. This is therefore an amendment under number 7425. And then here's the thing that my colleague Marek Výborný and I wanted to load on the constitutional law committee. Unfortunately, the carrier fell out, which was called a snowman, and it's called the humanization of furniture. Again, I think it's pointing to these people seeing it right away. It has also aroused a certain passion for creditors, so even here it is a significant help to debtors, that is to be said. That's why, in cooperation with the Justice Department, we did it so that it would be redesigned, and that rack was the current 7155 press. I'm going to say briefly, and then I'm going to apply to it under number 7402, that it's basically four basic things. I may then describe them in more detail in a detailed debate. The duty of the executors to record phone calls so as not to create some confusion, who said what, who pushed someone and so on. Then I'll describe exactly how, how, how it's meant, what phones it's about, so it doesn't go around, and so on. Prohibition of the execution of the sale of movable property in specially vulnerable persons. That's what I think is essential. What we're saying is that we don't want and we don't want the furniture to run in families and in households, where it's quite clear that the goal isn't to sell the movable things, that's quite clear, but where the aim is to create some kind of pressure. If those people are just running around... Now I don't even... That's what we wrote before the coronavirus. Now, of course, it's even more demanding and more emotional. At that point, of course, there's nothing to be gained from the sale, which means it's some kind of pressure. The debtor borrows again and quickly, and he's back in the system where he was. He'll pay one executor, one creditor, he'll create a new creditor, under worse conditions, of course. Classic. Then part of this amendment is the suspension of the execution of the sale of movable property at a minimum simultaneous collision from income. And then I'm going to apply for it again in some way, and I'm going to say the details in the third reading. I've been saying that for the 10th time, just so we're clear, I really want to cut this short. But I can't get over it like my colleague Navrkal, who said to read it. That's just what this hearing is about. Don't be mad at me, colleagues. The last, fourth chapter of the changer is the limitation of the co-operation of multiple Mobiliar executions. So much for Amendment 7402. And then there are the other amendments, which were mentioned by my colleague Výborný, i.e. a reduction in efficiency, which is Amendment 7426. This is what we want to do at this point - and we have feedback from the Ministry of Justice - that if we approve some things that would be more complicated on implementation, it is still possible to change the date at third reading, but it needs to be read, so it is from 1 January 2022. And then the opportunity of the debtor to obtain an electronic file - it was also introduced here by colleague Marek Výborný. These are the amendments. As you can see, as I said, I'm alone as a friend, but it's impossible to say anything about it again. So I saved a whole bunch of things for my third reading. Let's count on it, please, because it's a really complicated material, and we need to talk about it. It can't be said: it's over in five minutes, so let's not talk about it. Yeah, well, then... I say against it, don't take a break, let's just keep going. That means this is what's coming for us at the third reading. I'm glad. It's another continuation of these things, the cultivation of the environment of executions and insolvencys. After all, we had child debts a while ago and we're leveling it out, and I want to underline that, what's accumulated from the past here, please, nicely. From the past! Not what this or the previous government has done. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u21	I am grateful and absolutely agree that the third reading is intended to discuss the various amendments in detail. And now, please, Mrs Valachová, but I don't see her. In that case... It's running. [[Madame is coming into the hall.]] So, Mrs Valachová has passed, otherwise she would have moved her application to the end of a number of registered speakers. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also - not only for myself, but for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club - give my opinion on the press. Enforcement is a matter that cannot be resolved in the long run to address the most pressing problems in execution practice. We have certainly solved a number of things for the better during our reign, but there is a debt from the past that we lack to repay. I myself and for social democracy would like to say that our programme is formulated into the Second Chance programme, which is an honest payment of debt, but an end to debt slavery. This is what we stick to at all points. You know that's what I'm saying at the House today for the second time after the ban on child debt. However, this afternoon it concerns precisely the topics related to executions and we will move on, perhaps some, to another point, which is the debt relief and insolvency law. I would also like to join and sign up with the proposals that we have brought together in terms of effectiveness in the amendment, which was represented here by colleague Kolářík. The fate of this proposal is that the beginning dates back to the joint parliamentary proposal, which we have pursued the rules of local jurisdiction of judicial executors, that is to fill the philosophy that was at the beginning, namely that the executor should know his debtor, be able to effectively execute and enforce as much as possible for creditors to ensure that such execution is swift and effective. This is the philosophy of this proposal. There are other things involved in stopping the endless executions. Again: yes, an honest payment of debt, but not a debt of slavery. This means: we do not want debts that remain here from the previous economic crisis, notabene, when people who are in debt spirals so far may face a deterioration in the economic and social situation as a result of the pandemic in the coming months. So we are, in fact, not in the beginning, but we may already be in an economic pandemic crisis. For this reason, it is time to deal with those old sins, debts and debt spirals, make a black line, and other measures to prevent people from re-entering debt traps today. Therefore, I also consider it crucial in our amendment that we want the principal and then the accessories to be paid first. On the contrary, we do not want so-called bonuses to become the subject of execution, which is a tax issue, but to support children and family, not to cause possible further debt. A number of things that we originally proposed have already been approved, I will mention the protected account and the protection of the unforgivable amounts that we have removed from these amendments to be approved more quickly. We discussed the ban on child debt and sent it to the last reading several tens of minutes ago. So I am glad that this afternoon is fulfilling what I promised at the beginning of this week for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, namely that we will do everything we can to ensure that the rules for people to have a chance out of debt traps are passed, and that we will not allow other people to become as massive as they did in the last economic crisis, in an economic pandemic crisis, to get into such uninhibited situations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. Now, Mr Juchelka in the general debate, Mrs Válková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u24	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I am merely an agent who has been authorised by the Committee on Social Policy, which has discussed this press here on 3 February at its meeting, to recommend to the honourable House that it give its consent to the Government's draft law under House press 545, so that is what I am doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mrs Válková, and Mr Marek Novák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u26	Dear colleagues, Mr President, what was to be said here in general in principle, said the previous speaker, Mr Nacher. Nevertheless, I would like to mention a few important things, because here I am, of course, also in the role of Human Rights Commissioner, who is in charge of not strictly socially excluded localities - that is what we share with the Ministry of Regional Development and its special department. However, we often address the problems of people who turn to the government to finally approve a legal regulation that will be fairer to those who are partly in trouble - in part, I stress - for which they are not. That's what we've been talking about. In relation to the preparation, which was very turbulent - you know that we could not find the optimal formula ourselves - I too am concerned that by approving the press, which is revolutionary in some ways, we would not achieve counterproductive effects in some ways, namely that there would be no recovery of negative claims. That is why it is good for us to realize some things before we move this press - which I hope we will move - to the third reading. In view of the fact that we are also working with a number of non-state non-profit organizations, one of the reports I have received which reminds me that what seems to be in general at first sight - not only, as has been said here - politically correct and our commitment and debt to people who are in debt may have some effects that you would not say yourself. Who's progressing on this kind of information? Surprisingly, it is a non-state non-profit organization that has done research between social workers and social curators. They usually take care of parolees and convicts. They simply guarantee to every citizen who is in a difficult situation, at least an analysis of his situation, and, if possible, help, of course, but assess his situation comprehensively. This means not only a partial aspect of being trapped in debt, but also what is important for his next life. They wrote - and now it's a quote: "Social workers and social curators do not evaluate debts as a separate client issue. As part of their cooperation with the client to resolve his situation, they map the client's obligations, evaluate them together with the client, interfere with these debts and limit them. But what's important is that it divides them into responsible and irresponsible." Thus, thanks to a comprehensive way of social work, the client's solution in the situation, including debt solutions, is much better set up. More than three quarters - almost 77 percent - of social workers and social curators in the survey said that debt solutions include more than 90 percent directly in their work with the client, so that they perceive debt solutions as an essential necessary activity to find solutions to adequate changes in the client's life. I usually talk down, I read this because when I quote or give information from research and research, I certainly don't want to distort the content by inaccurate interpretation, or by memorizing what I've memorized. In the debtors, we should support responsibility and an honest approach to repayment. Now it comes: Only then will they realize the real causes of their debt and can they step out of the vicious circle of their debt. [[18.40 hours]] In relation to insolvencys, the respondents expressed themselves clearly in order to maintain the clear obligations of the debtor, and social workers generally tend to be subject to a minimum debt payment of 30 per cent, with which, of course, we have already worked in various variants of our amendments. Only 18 per cent of them perceive the correct ratio below this ratio. [[as:]] In the case of high debts, where the debtor would not pay up even 5%, three quarters of these workers, whose funds I have no doubt of, are inclined to believe that the extension of the duration of the debt should take - now you will wonder - more than five years. It was 400 social workers and social curators. I don't want to question what we agreed on, but the evidence I'm getting also shows that such behavior, that means indebting, without the means I have, is generally inherited, goes from one generation to another, unless there is some more forceful limit, response, and that is what 95 percent of social curators and social workers think. I'm based on what they published themselves. I was very surprised, and I have to say that I think that we should take this into account, which I do not want to question the approval of this press, but it is not good for us to lie here that our amendment will very well affect the change in the behaviour of debtors. If it is set too benevolently, we will collect voting points, but in the result we will not help debtors and their children themselves, or we will probably not help, as those who have - and are paid for it and are professionally well equipped - to help them. We can just confirm that debt is actually worth doing. That, of course, is the answer... I've even pulled out the other documents I've gotten, which I'm more skeptical about. Because we know that if you ask anyone on the street if the death penalty should be re-established, every other citizen will tell you that yes, even though we are bound by European conventions and we have a lot of commitments that we can't, I'm also more skeptical here. Nevertheless, I would like to quote one thing that we, as those representing citizens of the Czech Republic, should know: "People should spend only the money they already have and should not rely on future incomes. " Approximately four out of five Čech agree with this view, which is presented according to the investigation of the STEM/MARK research agency and reported by CNN Prima News. Of course, opinions differ. Classic sociodemographic characteristics - age, there is education as one of the statistically relevant indicators. Young people deal with possible difficulties in repaying their debts much easier than seniors, more educated people and less educated people have differences. But four out of five is a relatively significant factor. A three-year reduction in debt would significantly increase the number of people who would be willing to be in debt, not to pay their debts, and to live at an unforgivable minimum during debt relief, that is what our public thinks too. So we have to take into account something other than collecting political points, but also representing people who, in their majority, are concerned that we should not raise them to irresponsibleness and say to some economic recklessness, especially the emerging generation, that is, young people who are very "smart" think that this is the way to live and that it could be a lifestyle. The vast majority of people in this research alone would not be willing to forgive debts even to their friends and would also support a consistent recovery of debts. And as I say, even if they're high percentages, 78 percent agree that only the money we have should be spent, and so on, I will no longer read it. The research is extensive, it's available here with me. Maybe some of you got them. I thought it was important if no one was to talk about this in front of me, so -- I'm looking at my watch, well, I don't know, so I'm going to speed up my performance -- but it would be good -- I know I have time to fly -- on the other hand, I think we need to know what the public thinks, and most importantly, what those who care about people who have big problems. Now, one more thing, maybe it's a little surprising, but then, of course, I will sign up in a detailed debate on the amendment that I have put in there, which I know has been running around with both opposition and coalition MEPs. I've read it several times, and I've come to the conclusion that it would be a good idea to make such an insurance policy after all. The amendment concerns advances, and specifically that... or: I am responding to this proposal - the proposal, of course, was prepared by those on the other hand, that is to say, debt collection, and by associations that have also participated in this - it is to be stipulated in certain cases, except for the legal exception provided for, that, immediately after the execution procedure is initiated, there will be advances on the costs of execution, when the proposal establishes the right of the executor to lodge an advance and the so-called additional advance after three years of enforcement proceedings, and the obligation of the creditor to bear the costs of execution if the execution is stopped, and there are relevant provisions. So it's kind of a insurance policy so that it doesn't happen that creditors wouldn't be able to go overboard if we went overboard with a new legal regulation, turn to the bailiffs, and basically there would be a situation that I know very well from my own experience as chairman of the housing cooperative, when we were in vain in the 1990s looking for someone who would have recovered our debt claim, first of all. And secondly, we have a lot of self-help companies that would like to take over, but I don't think we'd like to go back to this practice. koneckonců all, the explanatory memorandum itself admits that there is currently the possibility of a judicial executor demanding an advance on the costs of execution. It is not used in practice. It is now necessary to impose a rightful advance on execution directly, and the enforcement penalty would only be applied after the rightful person has passed the appropriate official procedure - judicial, administrative, executional. In this respect, I think that the proposal, which is inserted under number 7435, is an alternative to which we can take into account in the third reading when we consider the overall shape of the amendment. And at the same time, I know I don't have time to introduce you to other points, but it's embedded in the system. Of course, I believe that this would prevent certain risks, which I believe otherwise are definitely at risk. [[18.50 hours]] And I repeat, I myself have a great interest in helping those who, not by their own fault, are in a bad situation, in which they are now in, and I think that, of course, the extension of time and hesitation, for example, in negotiating here in the House, could lead to their situation getting significantly worse at the time of emergency. And one more comment, because when I look at the board, I'm afraid it doesn't matter anyway, because we didn't vote for an extension after 7:00. At the same time, I think our public will appreciate that we deal with this press so thoroughly that it is not so that they would say that we are delaying something. I also think that if we want to end second reading in the near future, and even some amendments that may sound surprising, we will have enough time to discuss. So thank you for your attention. I'm sorry that I may have been a little more extensive, but I think it was worth it here with this subject, and in that I completely agree with Patrik Nacher, to be more thorough than other subjects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now, with Mr Dolínek's factual remark, then Mr Novák will be prepared in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u28	Good evening. I just wanted to say briefly that it seems irrelevant to me from a colleague who just showed up here, and these are statistics on who thinks she should be treating debts and stuff like that. You know, when the legal system -- Patrika, I'm sorry, I'm speaking to the previous speaker -- made it possible for people to get in debt in this way when the legal system made it possible for those people to be treated this way, it's clear that the majority population that doesn't owe will logically say in the research that everyone has to repay their debt. [[to Mr Nacher]] So you said it in the research that it worked, but the legal system made it possible. I think we're 15 years behind on how we were supposed to protect these people and the system to keep it from happening. So please, let's not use statistics that work on a model of something that's irrational, and irrational was that it all happened at all. So please, let's not throw these numbers here because it's not entirely material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u29	There will be other factual points. Mr Navrkal, then Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, it came down to my words, and it looks like we wouldn't have been able to do it normally right now, not even this point, so I suggest at least finish this point after 7:00. Thank you. It's on behalf of the Pirates and STAN Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u31	I believe that such a proposal has already been made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u32	If I'm not mistaken, there's been a motion to negotiate both points, not just this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u33	He didn't pass the general proposal. If the general proposal hasn't passed, we can only test the proposal for this point. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out. I'll call my colleagues to the O.R. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards, see if we can get a vote. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'd like you all to sign up with your cards again. I believe, according to the occupancy of the hall, that there are enough of us here. At this point, we do not have the right to vote, but there are still more applications and Members coming. I repeat again what would be voted on. It would be voted that we will discuss this point even after 19 o'clock, purely this point. However, I don't see that we have enough credit. I don't want to make a break for the remaining MPs, so in that case, we can maximize... Other Members are on the increase. [[A challenge from the O.R. to gong.]] I've gonged many times. We've still got some MPs. Two more. With a look at the O.R., I'd say there should be enough of us here. Mr. Kaňkovský. One more. Make sure you're all logged in, please. Member of Parliament with priority rights. Two more to go. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. I'm gonna use it a little bit before my coworkers run out or run out, because I understand that sometimes it's a longer sprint. I might ask to consider whether in future it would be worth the opportunity to project on the board from which clubs are the number of Members applied for, then it is better to confront the reality of the hall, so I think that would not be a thing for the future. I'm giving it as a stimulus to the House's leadership. Technically, I think it's a good idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u35	I believe that a permanent commission for the House's work can possibly discuss such an initiative. Of course, I could make some sort of orientation vote, but I don't know if there's anything to know. The Member and the Chairman of the Permanent Commission shall comment on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, of course, I see the initiative from my colleague Jurečka as a very serious stimulus and it would certainly improve the overall discussion, say, because if someone is anonymously declared, there is no way to judge it publicly. So, at this point, as chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Labor of the Chamber of Deputies, at the next meeting, I will make this motion as my initiative. Now, I don't know if it's technically possible or not, I'm quite uneducated in this business, I'll leave it to those who understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u37	Yes, thank you. Looks like we've reached the necessary concession, so we can vote. And once again, I will repeat for those who have reached, what we will be voting on. We will be voting to discuss this point after 7:00 p.m. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 5, 72 Members of Parliament are enrolled, for 36, against 1. The motion was not accepted. First I saw Mr. Výborný that he was reporting, then Mr. Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u38	So to be known, not here in the hall, but mostly to the public, whoever blocked the completion of the second reading of the Penalty Code is the YES movement. There wasn't a single reason why we couldn't stay here for about 20 minutes, so that after all the shows, there's only one thing we can do here, we can finish this, move it to the constitutionally-legal committee. So whoever doesn't want to deal with these things is unfortunately, I'm sorry, the YES movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u39	Mr Farský outside the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u40	What else can I do? We've been trying to get two government proposals on this program that the Prime Minister has been saying for years about how it's a government priority, to turn those terrible executions and insolvencys, but now it shows what your priority is, to keep people in debt slavery and not let them out, to continue milking them by the hundreds, and to pull billions for a few people out of it. That's the card of your movement, that's the card of today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Navrkal is here with a point of fact, and then Mr Nacher, I see Mrs Valachová. I called on Mr Nacher first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, you even know that I've always voted for this point. I've always voted for it. Insolvency, execution. And now I'm gonna tell you why I didn't vote. For an opposition MP to come to me and tell me that I've been talking for 20 minutes, obviously, to the point that I'm stalling, that's for real, that's over the line. This is where you're proven to take often obstructive breaks. I'm the one who cut it short. Marek the Výborný witness. I could talk here for an hour, and I got scolded that I was speaking to the point for 20 minutes? So I didn't vote for it. Don't be mad at me. That's too much. So there's so much explanation for who's obsessing about what. This government continues with matters relating to execution, insolvency, what was here from 2000 to 2014, and it will also complete it. Don't be mad at me. But to blame the Members for the fact that 20 minutes are obviously speaking to the point - take the screen record - and shortens it to the utmost to accommodate, so it hasn't really been here yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u43	Ambassador, it's 19 o'clock. So I'm forced to interrupt this point. And I also have some priority... It's 7:00. Priority proposal - Mrs Valachová, then Mr Jurečka. We're already out of points. We can no longer discuss the law. I'm just calling it in for everyone. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u44	Colleagues, colleagues, I also have to turn against the fact that we do not want changes in executions, insolvencys, bans on children's debts and so on. I think it is quite clear that this House, after X terms of office of other governments, can bring these changes to an end. And it's clear that this week or the next meeting, we're going to finish these things and we can arrange for committees to be able to negotiate and make it to the efficiency that we've been discussing here today. So I'm making myself a member of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. And I don't think there's anything you can blame us for this week's executions as far as individual steps are concerned. And on the contrary, what happened in the past few days, I think we could also forgive ourselves for some of the things that crashed the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Jurečka, if I have noticed this, then Mr Farský. For all other Members who are not given priority rights, I would like to inform you that we will no longer be discussing anything today. The meeting will be adjourned no later than 21 o'clock, indefinitely, until the Presidents of the MPs agree. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u46	I'll be brief. At the last meeting in January, the chairman of the ANO Club called on us at another point, to extend it, to negotiate. We've reached out to him, extended, negotiated. Fifteen minutes was enough here, and the point would be solved, closed. Maybe I'd ask if there's such a determined commitment here that it's going to happen very soon, so if Kateřina Valachová or Patrik Nacher could tell you when it's going to happen. Take a look at the real program of what we have before us, when the House will act, what we have to deal with, so that it can be said when it will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u47	Now, Mr Farský, then I no longer register further applications. And I'd like to reach an end to the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u48	I am pleased for the public promise made here by Mrs Valachová that this law will finally be discussed. But until it's real, it's just words. The reality is that the law is here for over a year and a half, that it came to the House meeting because of the fact that the opposition's voices in particular were called for an extraordinary meeting. The meeting included an emergency meeting for this late, five o'clock, chairman of the ANO movement. You, the YES movement, voted against voting after seven o'clock, and the press finished today. You took responsibility for a million people in trouble. You let them fall into the water and let them drown. Today you voted for a few executors, a couple of poor businessmen, who you extended their beautiful life by a few months from scratching poor people. And that's what you did today. That's what you did! You threw them overboard and you can tell what you want here, but that's the reality that's on the ballots. And I believe what has been said here, and I believe that when the Prime Minister repeatedly puts it as his priority, how he will deal enormously with it, I believe that you will hopefully do so. But time is running out. And we've wasted years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u49	Thank you. Mrs Valachová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u50	I'm really just a sentence. For the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, and with a calm voice to fellow speakers: what I have said means that social democracy, as well as social democracy, will continue to strive to make the rules in the changes to executions and insolvencys. As far as priority rights are concerned, of course, only for you, even if anyone would follow us, because I consider it correct, only some Members can speak with priority rights, so I consider it fair to say to my colleague Patrik Nacher that I think what I am saying would be said by him, so I mention his name here. And I believe that the change in executions, insolvencys will really be completed. And I just want to say one more thing. Please, let's not overreact to political words. It's not about whether or not we're going to act by 19.10 now, but when the changes will be effective. And that hasn't changed at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u51	This is Mr. Nacher reporting. Unfortunately, he's not given priority rights. So, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for the floor. We're all gonna speak for Patrik Nacher, so I'm gonna speak for Patrik Nacher. We'll propose it tomorrow. Madam Secretary said she'd be here, so we can get to it. If it doesn't work out tomorrow, we can do it the day after tomorrow. I'm sure there's a chance we can discuss this here if we can get the YES colleagues to vote for it. I think that if you really wanted this, you wouldn't be putting this thing in a meeting that starts a few hours before the meeting day is over. This thing could have been discussed if an emergency meeting had been properly... If it started at the beginning of the day and we didn't have just a few hours to do it, where people would perform with speeches, it wouldn't make it, then it would stop, everyone would go home. So there will be a chance to discuss this in the next few days. We will propose it, either tomorrow or Friday, and you will be able to express your willingness to vote, because that is what the password says applies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-082-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Those are all applications. So now I would try to end or interrupt this 82nd meeting, indefinitely, in the agreement of the members of the parliamentary clubs, when they will eventually be reinserted. And I would remind you that we will meet tomorrow, that is, on Thursday, February 11, when the 83rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 9 a.m. When this meeting is over, we will return to the proper 79th meeting. Thank you. Tomorrow, by 11 o'clock, it is theoretically possible to interpelate, however, the question is whether we can get to them. Have a good evening.
