ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u1	Thank you. We have an open point. I haven't started the debate yet. Before I give the floor to Mr František Kopřiv, who was originally the plaintiff, and if he would have agreed, the rapporteur would also be - nod that yes - I have the priority right of the Minister and with priority rights Vice-President Benešík for the KDU-ČSL club. All right, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for giving me the opportunity to present the National Recovery Plan here. I also thank President Bartoš for the material questions that have fallen. I am glad that this is being done on the level that we can possibly improve on the National Recovery Plan. Because the absolute agreement that this is a vital resource, which, to a large extent in the coming years, at least in the seven years, will affect - and here it is important to say not only the economy, because one of the first incorrect names of the National Recovery Plan is that it is an economic plan. This is not an economic plan. It is an infrastructure plan, or the development of infrastructure, which includes the economic component, logically also a business component, but also a component that is in other areas: environmentalization, climate control, research, development, prevention, health protection, digitalisation of the public sphere and so on. I could take one component after another here. This plan is to move the Czech Republic with regard to the way in which reforms are being prepared today. And these reforms, key, strategic steps, should largely be supported by resources in the coming years, and these resources can go into a number of other areas. I'm saying this in front of a parentheses because it's understandable that what an interest group, what a professional platform, that's a little different opinion. And I quite understand that everyone would need to see themselves in the National Recovery Plan, that they would need more resources and that they would like it to end up in his area. And we've got two ways to go about it. The first option is that we meet everyone, each gets its piece, divides 172 billion plus possibly credit resources - because it still needs to be perceived that it is not only about the subsidy resources, but also about resources of CZK 405 billion that can be used as credit under certain circumstances, so that it can increase - and we can break them up by satisfying everyone in part. I'm sure some of the memorials remember the division of the bear. And that doesn't affect the demands that are, because I understand that everyone is from some region, everyone has some ambition, everyone works in some field, and everyone could use a certain amount of resources. So it's not that the money falls on bad activities, but it's that if we break it up like this, it won't have the vision in the finals, it won't have the drive, and it won't go to what we all want, and that's to strengthen - not even competitiveness, it's another little cliché that's coming up, plans for last competitiveness are based on OP TAK or OP PIK and so on - but to strengthen our country's resilience in a variety of different aspects. So let's just assume that this plan should follow a certain vision. This is extremely important. And once again, it's a great pity that some critics do - and I'm not saying it badly, I'm just reminding you why it might have to be viewed a little differently. To look at it with respect to the other resources we have. At least within Europe. Why do I say that? Our government, specifically the Prime Minister, has managed to negotiate an absolute record within the European Commission, and that is 964 billion resources in the next seven years plus, let's say, a period of three more years. We will be able to draw CZK 964 billion in the coming years. 172 billion is only the National Recovery Plan. Then there's the so-called Just Transition Fund, there's the REACT, obviously there's the Structural Funds and so on and so on. And that in the 960 billion crowns, to be exactly 964, is not yet counted the source that we can draw, and these are the highly advantageous loans from this New Generation Fund, which is another 405 billion. And it doesn't include the Modernization Fund, which also covers a whole series of components, whether it's decarbonization or simply the energy sector and so on. So the Modernization Fund alone is going to be another 100 to 150 billion. So what are we talking about? We have resources here for the next seven years worth more than one trillion crowns. And now it's not just about the fact that there's more than one trillion crowns that we can draw beyond, of course, national budgets, but each of these programs is somehow focused on a specific area. So to put together the National Recovery Plan well, the first step we've taken for weeks, if not months, was that we were starting to pair it with the other programs. Which, of course, wasn't entirely easy, because the programs are being created, you know, at the moment they're not all closed. In fact, what we're saying is that some programs are more comfortable, for example, in the health sector. Now let me give you a specific example. This is the REACT fund, which we can use beautifully for the construction of material infrastructure in the field of health, and it is not good to use the National Recovery Plan. We can use it more in the field of health prevention, we can use it for other health projects, for high-end health projects, for what burns us in certain areas, such as oncology, infectious or cardio areas, and now I say in particular the areas targeted by the National Recovery Plan, and it is not worth putting resources in, for example, the construction of regional hospitals or their equipment, because we have a completely different fund for that. So this is how you need to perceive the correlation of individual resources and always look at the overall allocation, and how many or literally or even some areas under those departments will be able to draw within these programs. It is also typical of municipalities, regions and so on, which can also use resources other than the National Recovery Plan, even more comfortably and much better. So this is a fundamental assumption: to pair up individual resources in advance with regard to their purposefulness. [[9.30 hours]] Secondly, it must be seen that we are largely bound by the European Commission. And here I am also responding to President Bartoš, who asked if the percentage requirement to fight the climate of 37 percent and to digitize 20 percent will be met. Yes, it will be observed, even we must, there is no other way at all. So right now, if this plan is going to be approved in those components and subcomponents as we have it, even though of course it's not the finals yet, we have 40 percent of the climate and we have 23 percent of the digitalization, so we still have a spare in this. But in any case, it is already clear that our ambitions can be any, we can discuss the economic infrastructure of the Czech Republic long enough, our needs, where we believe that we can draw well and skillfully on support of infrastructure, support of regions, for reconstruction, etc., when we have de facto 60 per cent already covered, and the European Commission will, of course, not only not give in to this, but it is a clear requirement that the train does not pass through. And to give it even more diction, the 37 percent really is to fight the climate, it's not pure ecology, but it needs to be seen as an obvious tool for achieving our climate plans for 2030 or 2050. And I'm not saying this for bad or bad, I'm just saying it as a fact that we have to stick to. However, of course, any such ambition or any such plan, if it is to be even for a few years, and if it is to be a plan that really will support recovery not only in post-covide times, it, we believe, will pass away, it must be based on something, and it must be based on our visions, our strategies, which we cannot invent now. This is also another request from the European Commission. They simply say: Put together your strategies, which are existing, in agriculture, in the field of digitization, in the field of innovation, etc., let us create a vision of this and then put the individual components into this vision. I think that this is essentially the right approach, because at the moment the Czech Republic has a whole range of high-quality strategic plans. We have here a Digital Czech plan - after many and many years of doing nothing in the field of digitalization. For the last time, I remember that this ambition was here some ten or twelve years ago, when Czech Points were created here, etc., I must say that it made sense, that was quite good, so there was only talk of digitalization. Until the position of the government's agent for the digitalisation of Mr Dzurilla and the ambition of the vision has been created, but especially the concrete Digital Czech plan, which includes the digital economy, the digital government, and even the relationship with Europe, is not only described but also implemented at the same time. It's never done more for the digitalisation sector than it has in recent years. And so can we talk from my backyard about innovation. The innovation strategy that arose two years ago was revolutionary. There's never been anything like this. For the first time, we put together science with business and universities. We created a clear concept, we gave it parameters, we said where we wanted to be. We have shown the future of the Czech Republic in the field of research. We have shown the future of the Czech Republic in the field of new technologies, in the field of artificial intelligence. Who here has done more than this government for artificial intelligence? Let's look at the results we have. The Czech Republic is highly positively evaluated today virtually everywhere in Europe with respect to artificial intelligence. I'm not saying it's the government's fault. All I'm saying is that we've given it some parameters, and those who create it, whether it's universities, researchers, etc., let's see how they place themselves in all centres of excellence, etc., if I'm not mistaken, we even have three participants in the four centres of excellence that have been created within Europe. I don't think there's any other country, maybe Germany, that has so many participants there. What am I saying? We meet the ambition of the Czech Republic - a country for the future, regardless of the amount of money allocated to research, when we get to the level of 2%, the last number of 1.93 for 2019 and the final number has not yet been announced in 2020, or it has not yet been calculated, it is a pan-European view, but it is a great ambition to achieve the base of 2%. Let's take a look at the numbers as they were in 2012, 2013 etc., we were moving somewhere in half, or 1.3 - 1.4, respectively. So the innovation strategy is a document that, of course, we're going to translate into the National Recovery Plan, which we're giving parameters to. This is clearly a reform plan. And this way we could take one concept after another, and we could talk a lot about how this is based, for example, on domestic or national transport strategies, transport policies - high-speed lines, rail digitization, and everything that is linked to smart transport. And we have this logically mapped out today, this is created, and we're going to translate this into the National Recovery Plan. Or maybe an area called smart agriculture. Of course, area 4.0 - few countries today have results, ambitions and documented progress in this area. The Ministry of Industry and Trade is the Gestor of Industry 4.0 and is the Gestor of the National Artificial Intelligence Strategy. Few countries have an artificial intelligence strategy. And it's not just a piece of paper, it's something that's being filled, and logically, we're going to retrace that into the area of the National Recovery Plan. Here again, I answer what President Bartoš asked about the extent to which this is being discussed with the European Commission. I'd say that's the kind of thing that everyone cares about the most. It means, it's not that we sit with them and tell them what we want, how ideal it would be. They are quite pragmatic, they will say: Okay, that sounds very nice, show us what strategy you have supported, show us milestones how you implement these strategies, show us what results you have with it and what ambitions and goals you will have with it by 2023, 2025, 2027 etc. And if we don't have it, and I'm not saying that we have it in all areas, we're not saying that in any way, so logically, because then the European Commission is blaming us and saying, "Well, it's nice what you want, but what do you base it on? And here I'm answering a little bit to all those who said, "I'd like some money for this." I'd like money on the bike path. I'd like money to support women. - It really was. There was a motion in the Senate to support more women. - I'd like more money to support agriculture. And I'd like to build a hospital in this county. And I'd like you to build a great dam over there. And I want this and this. That sounds nice, and we're right on the bear split. If we let this happen, we're gonna spend it all, but luckily, here I'd say the European Commission is playing a pretty good role, and it's gonna slow this down in time. So thank you for all the topics, but if we go into this discussion - pay me the dam in my region, pay me a nice chimney outside the city, or give me one or more project requests - so there's no point in discussing it, there's no way it's going to pass. If this is not part of a clear plan that has already been approved in the past, a reform action plan, a plan that has milestones, a plan that corresponds to what has been approved by the government, Parliament, etc., it is a useless debate. And I think that's right. So the European Commission today, from our point of view, because let us be on the ground, is quite supportive of our plan. It's not that she praises us in everything, no way, they have teams that, of course, are quite challenging and quite harsh in the debate, but I think it's okay. In any case, however, it is moving forward, and when I take the meeting that was sometimes in September, then in autumn, or in winter, and now, I am convinced that the European Commission perceives that we are gradually respecting the requirements that we have. And if I simplify it, the answer is this: these components that we have today, and they're basically components in those six major pillars that at this point are 189.9 billion - then I'm going to explain why it's not 171 billion or 172 billion - so there's a consensus on those components. Of course, these components have other sub-components and sub-components, which are already characterised by individual projects, there is no 100% agreement on this, of course, because the preparation phase of individual projects is different, but that is the detail that I think is too big for the House. However, of course I'm prepared, if I have information about it, I have all these projects here, to answer that. So what's important? There is agreement on this basic vision, which is based on strengthening the Czech Republic as a country based on added value, a country based on education, a country based on innovation in higher order, because we are a country that cannot compete with others at least in the economic area based on volume, but only on added value, and we will only achieve added value if we are not in two, three, five years, but now invest in research, invest in education and invest in innovation. This is what the whole essence of the National Recovery Plan is based on, of course, not just from the economic point of view, but also from the other areas that I have said. So we have a clear vision. And I say again, it follows from what was good here, and from what is constantly being worked on in the areas of transport, energy, digitization - digitization of the state, health, etc. [[9.40 hours]] Other not entirely constructive discussions, or objections that come, are of character: you hide something, you don't discuss it with anyone. I confess that I do not know a document that would be more discussed at the level of expert platforms than the National Recovery Plan. Attention, let's not confuse this with another thing. That doesn't mean that when we're discussing it, we'll be able to accommodate everyone. That, of course, is not technically possible. But the reason I said: either we make a bear out of it and then we nod to everyone, they all pat on our shoulders and say thank you for the bike path, thank you for the pond, thank you for tearing down the chimney outside the city. Then it doesn't go where we want it to go. There are dozens of platforms, unions, associations, far from just economics. I must say, Deputy Minister Jirotková, who has been really responsible for this all along since the very beginning, has done a great deal of work in this. And I respect that those who do not see themselves in that plan use various tools, media tools, lobbyist instruments, etc. And they tend to show that the plan isn't right. It's not that the plan isn't right. It's about the fact that they didn't get what they wanted. And we have to choose that again. And it would be about what I said again, but I don't want to say it again. It's not true it's not a negotiation. It's been discussed with some of them several times. Even with the Union of Industry, it's on a weekly basis when it's being discussed. And yes, there are always some levels of compromises, etc., gradually. So that's another, let's say, logical basis for drawing up this plan, that means including the maximum spectrum of all stakeholders. Only in the Senate, if I'm not mistaken, that was in seven Senate committees, or six, now I'm not sure. And I presented it in the main plenary. And it's just a drawer. I think there are 15 senators in the Senate. I don't have it exactly right now. And the 15 senators basically said yes, but I would imagine this, this, this, this. So they put in their interest areas. Nothing against them. And when it all added up, it made another 50 billion crowns. We would never have reached that goal. Whatever I'm saying again, the areas they had in there have resonated quite reasonably for me. But that's not possible. Of course, we must perceive the interests of individual resorts because we do not live in an air vacuum. The government has its ministers. They work with their projects, have their budgets for a few years in advance that they can see into. And, of course, they have ambitions there. And it is clear that each of the ministers is interested in showing their area to the maximum extent possible. I have to say, these negotiations are reasonable, they're constructive. Yeah, sometimes we just disagree about something, too. I understand that someone might feel like they could get more, someone would rather see another project there, someone would compare it with other structural funds or European resources that they are, so they have a point of view that if I have less, I would need more here. So even here, we have to be relevant enough. Sometimes these meetings are tough, I'll give you that. I apologize to everyone for not being able to accommodate everyone. And I'm not pulling it together, but I'm taking it to the whole team. But, of course, in the government, I'm responsible. However, I have the impression that in the last days and hours we are beginning to find a relatively detailed consensus on the final version of the National Recovery Plan. And, of course, we must also see that we are discussing this at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. That's why we're here. There are a number of political parties. Everyone can have a slightly different opinion about it. But still, I dare say that this discussion is going pretty well with everyone and that it hasn't turned into that absolute bear. And I'm glad that Mr. Bartoš presented it this way: not I want this, I want this, but rather look at it from the perspective of the vision and look at it from the point of view where we want to get to. Another discussion is being held about what is actually the infrastructure. The absolute nonsense that falls here is that money goes into concrete. Please take a look at the plan. And that's where I'm going to do the insertion. We made a new website for everyone. The website is www.planobnovycr.cz. In it you automatically - not just you, but all citizens, because it is open to who will want to look at it - where the most up-to-date version of the recovery plan is always updated. So you see everything there, all the components, everything there is. And let's take a look at it and please tell me what you think ends up in concrete. If I don't accept that they're gonna build a health center, and there's gonna be a building, too, of course, because it has to be somewhere. But typical so-called concrete projects aren't there. Attention, I'm not saying there was no ambition to have these projects. And this was especially in September, in October of last year, when I say openly, there was an interest in having more money there, for example, for the construction of transport infrastructure. Not to concrete roads, but to so-called clever... or transport infrastructure based on, like, recycling, etc. That seemed good to us. We wanted to support transport infrastructure based on recycled materials, etc. It's been eliminated. We respect that. This has been discussed with the European Commission, which is why it has evolved this way. Today, when we look, there's nothing in the concrete. And there's 22 billion going into the transport infrastructure. And when we look at it in detail, it's all railroads, smart rails, rail digitizations, rail safety associated with state-of-the-art crossings, state-of-the-art applications, and what makes rail sustainable and, of course, ecological. So that's basically what it might be approaching, that it would be concrete. But I don't think anyone sees a smart railroad today and smart applications in this area as a concrete thing. So nothing goes into concrete. It's a cliché. It's nonsense. The resources that go in there are clear. And please look at it on the website, even now, click on it. It's quite obvious. 34 billion to digital transformation. Yes, we can talk about what else to do about it, what else could be better there. But, again, we are moving to be fair to businesses, to be fair to the public sphere, so that neither absolutely crucially supports more or less, because both - I think we agree - are important. The government is to serve both citizens and companies. And companies logically need additional resources to develop their digital skills, including retraining. The amount of 78 billion goes into physical infrastructure and the so-called green trance. Yes, there is a great deal of demand for climate control. And once again, when you look at it, the development of clean mobility, we have hydrogen, we have electric cars, we have an infrastructure for clean mobility where we need to strengthen. We have a circular economy there. I think it's an immense ambition, a big and important thing that needs to be supported, industrial water, regeneration, brownfield formation, etc., even though I acknowledge here, there's still a debate whether it's really going to be allocated in brownfield regeneration or not, but we're going to try to find something else there. Definitely a transition to clean energy sources. Of course, it would suck out a lot more resources there. But here we are fair again, because that's what I said in the introduction. We have other sources, whether it's the Modernization Fund or OP TAK, or possibly other resources to strengthen clean or cleaner, or let's say no emission-free energy. But in any case, for example, the transformation of Czech heating, which I generally see as the greatest energy challenge at all, there is a lot of emotional solution to Dukovany, but that is the thing that awaits us in 16 years when it will become operational. But in the coming years, perhaps even months, we need to transform Czech heating and that is the transition from coal to new sources, whether at biomass level, at waste level or at gas level. Although the gas is just a transit matter, there may have been a huge discussion with the European Commission. Another answer to President Bartoš. And I am glad that we have moved forward with the European Commission, that they are ready to finance this as well. But here, of course, it would be an endless source. As well as sustainable safe transport, I have already discussed this. Of course, conservation of nature, adaptation to climate change. A key component, which is basically one of the largest at the level of 19 billion. [[9.50 hours]] And I'm in education. Huge discussions with Minister Plaga, too, because the area of education is undoubtedly crucial to building a country that is resilient and a country with the ambitions that we have. On the other hand, of course, this mixes with the MŠMT programmes, partly with the programmes and with the support of science and research, so in the end the compromise agreement was 18 + 5, or 23 billion in this area. It's not the least. I know someone will say: in 172 billion, or some other credit resources, we would have imagined even more in this education, but let us realise, again, that resources from other programmes go into education. But I get it, it's important. So I think it's a reasonable agreement, and 5 billion of it goes to science or research projects, and 18 billion goes into the capacity of school programmes - innovation in education, or in the context of digitization and so on. And then, of course, the area of science, research and innovation, another huge debate that was around it, all the more so, that it is an area for which I am partly responsible. And here I would say that the final discussion, in my opinion, has turned out well for both applied research and basic research, although it is not entirely fundamental, let's say rather academic research. 12.5 billion: 5 billion for academic research and 7.5 billion for applied research. This applied research is clearly based on recent trends. Once again, it is important to see here, and here the Commission has been very uncompromising: show us how you have it incorporated in the RIS3 strategy. This is a strategy that is a little hard to read, it is historical here, please don't ask me why the European Commission has come up with a desire strategy. We're trying to take the positive from her. And the positive is clear. This tells us in what areas we will do applied research, why we will do it in these areas and how this will help competitiveness. We can talk about each of these components, but 7.5 billion to a large extent will also be complementary to a very successful TREND program, where we currently have seven times more demand than we are able to offer resources, and that is where we constantly strengthen those resources, because only from national sources goes into research, development and innovation through RVVI 38 billion crowns. I note that five years ago it was 27 billion crowns, 11 billion crowns more we increased it in the last five years. That is why we are entering the elite innovation group throughout Europe. To be on the ground again, we're not quite in that elite group yet, we're in tenth place, but from 27 countries, I don't think it's a bad location. And our ambition is clear, we said we wanted to be in the top seven. This government can't take it anymore, but I believe that the "earth for the future" strategy, whoever's sitting here, whoever's standing there, isn't gonna be destroyed just because of political scuffles. Because to strengthen research, to strengthen investment in this area, to strengthen our business card and business card within the European Union, and to move among those so-called innovation leaders and to be in the first seven in Europe - I think it must be an ambition for everyone. And if the opposition ever rules and abandons the principles of "earth for the future," then at night I will go haunting them because it would be a great shame. In any case, the other 5 billion in the basic research that goes there goes into three main areas. And that's health research. I think there should be a consensus on that too. Professor Konvalinka, who has taken it under his authority in RVVI, is doing a great job here, and it goes to about three thirds, part goes into cardio research, part into virology research and part into onko research. Another part, but it's relatively small, goes into social sciences. We accepted it, and I'm convinced that this VVI file is prepared very responsibly, and those people just worked it out. We have another area here, and this is the area of health, the resilience of the population, the increased resistance of the health care system, the oncological centers and so on. Again, there is a huge discussion with the Ministry of Health, with researchers, with scientists. It's a matter of whether or not to include, for example, the National virological Center in any way yet. I don't want to touch on individual concrete projects right now, because there are a lot of projects here in the entire National Recovery Plan, but because I know that the National virological Center is quite a downgraded issue, it's being prepared by the Academy of Sciences, specifically the ÚOCHB, which I consider to be the best research organisation in the Czech Republic with huge results, it's really going to be a big debate about whether it doesn't involve itself, and now the whole discussion is about whether it's from the sources of the National Recovery Plan or from national sources. That's definitely not decided. This is an order of 1 - 1.5 billion, so it needs to be one of those open things where we do not have a final position, but there will definitely be a discussion. I dare say the most important thing I've ever wanted to say to you has been presented. How will the next discussion take place? It will, of course, be about the need to get the National Recovery Plan after some final round into the inter-reorts, which we would like to manage in the coming days, then to the government, which we would like to agree on in the second half of April, and at the end of April, at the beginning of May, we would like to send the final plan to the European Commission, because it is true that the sooner we start to draw on it, the sooner we start to draw on it, and we would not want to say what we have committed ourselves to, but what we have aimed at this ambition, and that is to be in the first group from European countries that will send the National Recovery Plan for final approval. So once again, thank you all so much for your comments. Please watch it even on the web, send us the comments, none of them will be thrown into the trash. At least we'll try to explain to you why we might have come to this one way or another. Nothing is 100% definitive at this point, but on the other hand, I say we assume that we're going to make some fatal changes and a total revolution here, and we're going to move individual components in the order of tens of billions of crowns, it's completely excluded. The negotiations are really in the absolute finals. And I can imagine that individual projects can still move forward with a view to their readiness. Because we still have one thing to think about, and that is the last thing, let's say what ties us in this: all the projects that we will approve must be committed by the end of 2023 and 2022 respectively - part of them by the end of 2022 and there is a will to be done by the end of 2023. This is an extremely short period of time, so to think that we're going to build something new ingenious, it's fine, but unfortunately it won't take a National Recovery Plan to do that, because it may take years to prepare such a project. So, to a large extent, these are projects that are either pre-prepared or that can actually be realized in a relatively short time. So this is another parameter, which we must kindly bear in mind that it is not only what we want, but also that we must meet these requirements. Thank you very much and I look forward to the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u3	Thank you, Minister. I merely recapitulate that we have opened the point, but we do not have a debate, we do not have an introductory word, but I must always give the floor to who is mentioned in Section 67, which are the presidents of the clubs, the parties' chairmen, ministers, members of the House's leadership. I now have four priority rights: Vice-President Benešík, then Minister Zaorálek, then Vice-President Filip and then Mr Bartoš - all the regime § 67. Please note that I will have to stop at 10.20 anyway to prepare for the next meeting. I will interrupt indefinitely with the fact that the club presidents will have to agree with the House's leadership on what we will do with this meeting. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Vice Prime Minister, dear government, I will certainly not speak as long as the Vice Prime Minister, to give at least a little space to those who wish to speak on this subject as well. I would like to start by saying that I am glad that, finally, after a few long months, this material is coming to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, because sometime in September, October of last year, the European Commission called on the governments of the Member States to consult national parliaments on national recovery plans. We finally got to it. Unfortunately, I feel that the hour is twelve and maybe a minute after twelve, but I still believe that this discussion, as it began, will end constructively and that the government will take to heart well-meaning advice and suggestions from the opposition, and not only the opposition, but also the social partners and other players who will actually participate in increasing the competitiveness and resilience of our country, society and economy. [[10.00 hours]] I would like to say that I would oppose Mr. Vice Prime Minister that the word competitiveness is merely a cliché. We see it there, of course, because if we increase the resilience of our businesses in crises like this, we logically increase their competitiveness. And if we don't do that and governments do it in Germany, Austria or Spain, then we passively reduce the competitiveness of our businesses, which will not be prepared like their competitors from other countries. A relatively large proportion of the funds will be allocated to education. And education is clearly an increase in competitiveness. Not only resilience, but also competitiveness. So I have given two examples of why I think putting the word competitiveness in the context of the National Recovery Plan is okay. I think that the problem has just begun when the initial version was being created, when the government collected the demands and topics of the various departments from which it drew up the initial plan, and only then began to communicate intensively with the social partners and other entities, because that way the direction of the discussion was quite clearly given, and until today we have lost quite enough time to work, reflect just the comments and advice, the suggestions of the social partners. And that took our time. However, I have to say objectively that there has been a major shift recently, and the government has started to hear from employers' representatives, employees and the social sphere, on a relatively large part of these well-meaning advice - and not only from the opposition, but also from employers' representatives, employees and the social sphere. We need to realise the crucial thing that this is an investment. This is not a damage reduction, it is an investment in the future, an investment in our company, our economy, and an investment to produce some fruit. And the fruit is an increase in resilience in crises like this, and thus an increase in competitiveness. If the money resulting from the EU post-crisis plan is to change something, it must move us forward, so allow me to present some concrete points here as a recommendation to our government. The chapter on digitalisation should clearly contain objectives and a time frame. The aim would, for example, be to: it should have been a complete link between the financial authorities and social security administrations, health insurance companies and labour offices. The aim is to connect the department databases. Just in such a way that it is possible to start a business or a business from home. The European Commission's recommendation to the Czech Republic, published as a priority in defining the use of the European Recovery Fund, indicates the promotion of digitisation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the promotion of digital education and digital health care activities. It is these areas that should be remembered more than before in the National Recovery Plan. In the field of research, development and innovation, it is necessary to allocate financial resources not only to excellent research in research centres, but also to primary and applied research in universities and companies. At a time when France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria have a rapid train network, European rail passenger transport must not pass us by. It is therefore necessary to allocate a significantly larger amount to the creation of a network of rapid trains. The aim must also be to increase population mobility on the way to work, e.g. the acceleration of suburban rail transport. Our road network is overloaded with truck traffic. That is why our goal must be to be able to transfer part of this transport to the railroad. In the field of industry, the government must add money to pro-growth investments, especially digitalisation. Digitization increases labour productivity, creates jobs that are better paid, while it does not have a negative impact on the labour market. And such places are not only paid better, but are also more resistant to crises, so it is a clear investment in increasing the competitiveness of our industry. Innovation in education does not only mean the current provision of distance education, which is of course very necessary, but it must also mean reducing inequalities in access to quality education and allowing maximum development of the potential of pupils and students. This is the way, for example. building interactive and easily accessible information-education databases. In other words, it is not only about our pupils, teachers, but also about people who can retrain, handle information technology, have digital literacy, and have access to technologies that enable them to do so, but also about creating content. Today we see it as a clear priority. So it's one thing to teach these people how to handle it and give them access to these technologies that they use, but the other thing is to create the content. And nowadays, when children and students are educated remotely, it's all the more acute. But even in times much quieter, we can use this and we can use it because there are various reasons where a relatively large proportion of children and students simply have to be educated remotely for a longer period of time. So it's not just a matter of the current situation, but it's a matter that should be of constant interest to us. In this respect, I would like to make a note of 10,000 children and students who currently do not have access to education. Ten thousand children in the Czech Republic according to the Czech School Inspectorate do not have access to education for various reasons. And I think we really need to deal with that. Because once again I come to the beginning: 10,000 children and young people who have such a huge blackout from education will have negative effects on our competitiveness for the future. So we're back to competitiveness. As I mentioned at the outset, although the government consults a wide range of institutions, we feel that discussions with these institutions have been more or less formal, and rather often complain that their suggestions are not sufficiently heard. I believe that even here, the government will increase its activity and listen to them more. We have adopted several resolutions on the European Committee, and those resolutions have just been about giving the government sufficient space and time to settle comments. But also to involve the Chamber of Deputies in the process of creating this National Recovery Plan, which, by chance, is happening today. And I would say one more thing, and that is what all potential applicants are calling for, and that is the creation of a platform, an umbrella, a roofing of all financial possibilities, grant titles, financial instruments, grants and loans, both European and national, so that individual projects are not cannibalized and deaf places do not arise. I'm speaking now from the experience of the former mayor. It's just that sometimes, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can get the resources out of the way, and you can't even look where you can't even look and waste your energy because you can't reach it, it's really alchemy. I think that such coordination, when it will be clear or clearer and more obvious, what the particular applicant should focus on, how to prepare the project, will save a lot of money and time, and it will, of course, have a huge impact on how we use the money and how much we use it. I would argue too much for this, and I hope that the government will take steps in this and that it will learn from this end-of-the-year period as well as from those previous periods when the absence of such a sophisticated platform causes great problems to applicants, but also time and financial demands. Finally, I would like to say that it is necessary to take a responsible approach not only to the current consequences of the pandemic crisis, but also to the future of our country in the longer term. And that is why, let us strain all the forces, the opposition, the coalition, the government, so that we can really use the extraordinary resources that are now being offered to us as an investment, really use them to increase the resilience and competitiveness of our country in the future and not to manage the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u5	Good morning, honourable Members, Members of the Government. We will still continue with the priority rights. And now the Minister of Culture, Lubomír Zaorálek, will perform. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. None of us seems to doubt that the consequences of the epidemic situation will be eliminated in the economy longer than, perhaps, by the end of this year. And one could also say that the reaction in the world to this crisis is something that has never actually happened in such a dimension. I'd just like to draw attention to the context of what we're talking about here. In the United States of America, the new administration has released trillions of dollars in scale so that it has almost been unimaginable, which even exceeds several times the package that Barack Obama approved in the last financial crisis. And the reason is that it actually turned out at that time that the funds that Američan used to lend to the American economy were richly returned to them. In fact, today we are no longer discussing that this is the way that we can get out of the crisis the fastest and easiest, and that is why Europe has decided to take a step that is completely unprecedented in history. It has never happened in the past that the European Union would release such a number of funds for its states, even a part of them in the form of direct subsidies and a part of them in the form of loans. As you have heard here from several speakers, including Minister Havlíček, it is 171 billion subsidies and 400 billion loans. And this is actually where the debate takes place in the de facto direction that we need to have fun. The point is, if we have a bunch of money that doesn't have an equivalent in the history of the country that we have to revive the economy, then it's about treating it under certain rules that are important to make it worthwhile to invest. The first thing is, and that's what we've been trying to do, so that we don't just settle for the subsidies, because subsidies, as we know, contain risks, even if they're needed for three years. Bad language says that they are addictive and they cause addiction, and we also need to learn to deal with financial instruments. That is why I am pleased that we are going to use financial instruments around the so-called, say, grant money, to start with in the range of 19 billion, but I note that the 390 still remains available, and I think that it should also be the subject of a public debate, because, as I said, the crisis will not end by the end of the year, or the consequences of this situation will not end by the end of the year, and here is still an open space to learn how to handle these financial instruments. I am very pleased, for example, that we have agreed in the government that 4 billion funds from these grants will go to the Czech-Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank and that they will continue to be provided to small and medium-sized enterprises in the form of loans, which is such a revolving mechanism that can then work for a long time, that is, it is a sustainable thing that once you run it, so you can apply it in the long term, it is not just a one-time subsidy. And it's a huge chance for us to start supporting those types of farming in this country, those types of business that are sustainable, bring us a high level of added value and guarantee us a living tomorrow. It is extremely important here that the money be determined by address, what I think is important is that it should not be distributed across borders, that it should be provided directly to those who have been affected, and that it should be put where it really promises, that it is strategically important for the Czech Republic and that it means a high level of added value and, of course, higher wages for the future, because this package also decides on our livelihood tomorrow. We all know what the dynamics of the world around us are, and here's the opportunity to respond to it. Here is an opportunity for us to treat this offer so that tomorrow it will give the future of the Czech Republic. That's why I think this is a very important debate. That is why it is important - and one more criterion I would like to mention, which has already been mentioned here today by somebody. He was Thomas Piketty who wrote, and he's by far not the only one that when you take your country's wealth, it's primarily human capital. They say two thirds of it is human capital, and only one third of it is physical capital. Even somewhere he writes that when Germany was restored after World War II, the rate of recovery was given by the fact that there was strong human capital, that there were engineers, people who were able to deal with the assets they had at their disposal, that it wasn't just about having money, it wasn't just about having some physical asset or some asset, but it's about finding a way to develop people's abilities properly. And the development of people's ability, that's called labor market development. Putting that money into the labour market, too, into the active employment policy, is what I think is quite a reasonable requirement, how to handle that money. That was what the debates we had in the government were about, and I am glad that we have succeeded in gradually increasing this ratio, that we have indeed strengthened these investments in the development of human capital, and that we have been able to increase the funds to those areas that are sustainable in the long term, which have a chance to become a source of livelihood for people in this country and, at the same time, a source of higher added value. That's what the money they give a chance to do. And I would like to see those loans and other loans treated in this way for the future. I can tell you about that in one example, for example, I remember that when I entered into those debates with promoting the culturally creative sector, I remember that at the first NERV debate, it seemed like they were saying barely one billion, that must be enough for us. Today we have proven that we are capable of culturally creative culturally having an enormous absorption capacity, that this is an extremely promising field everywhere, and that today we are talking about eight billion. For me, it is not enough, you understand, because it is the development of this sector that allows us to create an audiovisual fund that we will support Czech producers, a cell of many people who are around audiovisual production, which elsewhere in the world is often very much supported and becoming a huge benefit of the economy. For some countries, it is already the second, third most important sector in the development of those countries. In fact, we're just getting started on the fact that the state is involved. That's one example. And of course we have a whole range of cultural creative centers in the regions, which I think is... you know, in Brno they have this example of a culturally creative center where these creative skills connect with industry, because they wouldn't have met and found each other otherwise. This means that this type of merger of different abilities, of people's qualifications, is what is far from being developed in our country as in a number of countries that you can see in Europe and in the world. So, catch up. To catch up on this delay, to start creating these things here, to find a livelihood for people who have a chance of getting paid well. These are, in my opinion, the possibilities that this fund or this renovation fund, as it was called in Europe, offers us. And I would like it to be an agreement not only in this coalition, but to be a matter of broader public debate, to discuss how we need to deal with the other loans that are still available in the future. It's just not a done deal. I warn you, there are still 390 billion in the financial instruments that we need to learn to deal with, because that is what is sustainable, that is what it will actually create, to promote certain development of the country's strategic guidelines for the next time. Now, I repeat, this isn't about one grant. The point is to treat the money so as to take advantage of it long-term and to take care of a qualified job that will make the most of people's ability in this country. This is the promotion of human capital, this is the promotion of potential, which should also be decisive for our future in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u7	I thank the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek for his performance. And I would make progress in giving priority rights. I'll leave myself out. I can give the floor to President Bartoš, who is logged in, but I warn him that this is not possible, virtually. You have one minute. I'm gonna have to put out a break before another meeting to do... Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u8	Thank you. I'm gonna use that minute. I'd just like to respond to Minister Havlíček. He said this was supposed to be a debate. We sent you the proposal in December and the debate didn't take place, we didn't get the answer. And there is none: build a lookout room here, make a children's playground here. In the field of education: strengthening the Grant Agency, supporting university centres focusing on the implementation of local research, increasing public expenditure on research and development to at least the OECD average. - Those are all the strategic things that sound there. In the field of research, in the field of transport. But you've marginalized this place a little bit, and I find it a little weird that you're a little out of respect, and now maybe that's just what it sounds like... As, of course, strengthening the position of women who have long been disadvantaged throughout the European Union on the market and do not have the same chances just because they often care for children more than men - that is also not a marginal issue. The scissors are still opening up in that area, or virtually. They're not getting closer. So I think it's important to talk about it. And I want to point out that this in the House is the first real kick off the subject. I hope, then, that we will also receive answers to these individual things. It's not some sort of marginary or cutting up a bear, we're talking about strategic things. And I advise people to look at that website, like you said. The most interesting part is about the second plan, Mr Babiš's national investment plan, where your document even mentions that the plan is wrong and needs to be invested in it, even in the methodology of its preparation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u9	Thank you. I shall interrupt the discussion of this point and, at the same time, I shall interrupt the discussion of the 93rd meeting until the date agreed by the members of the parliamentary clubs. I cannot put this indefinitely, because this is not what the Rules of Procedure allow me to do, but I would ask the President of the MPs to find a consensus by 14 o'clock today in some way on the deadline when we would continue, as has essentially been indicated in those speeches so far. I'll meet you at 10:30 at the next meeting that's called. I'm interrupting until 10:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. To record your presence, I'll check you out first and ask you for a new registration, sign up with your ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers, if reported at the 98th meeting, shall remain valid. We will continue the adjourned 93rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that this meeting was convened pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies and the approved programme cannot be extended. For the record, we have interrupted this meeting on 26 March of this year, when discussing the first point of the National Recovery Plan. So we will continue with this very first point. Before I begin, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, apologizes for working reasons for the whole day. When we finished the negotiations in March, applications with priority rights were exhausted. I would therefore ask the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask that Mr František Kopřiva, who was one of the appellants, also take his seat at the rapporteur's table. I can therefore start because the general debate has not yet begun, only the words of those who have priority rights have been given. But I still ask the Minister if he wants to expand his opening words for today's meeting day. That's right. In that case, I will ask the House for peace and the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček to extend his opening words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to speak for long because I consider it fair that everyone who wants to have an opportunity to comment on this. However, I consider it right to provide up-to-date information on the National Recovery Plan, because it is still a living thing and is constantly being discussed, is constantly being supplemented. I already told you last time, and it would be good if it were used, that it is completely publicly accessible, transparent on the website, where this last version has already appeared. What happens gradually or what the latest news from the National Recovery Plan is. The first important thing is that we moved it to 190 billion crowns, which is why - even a little more, 191 and a little billion crowns - we put a 10% reserve there. This is not quite exceptional, it is also after discussion with colleagues from the European Commission, other countries are also putting a higher amount there than what is intended in the subsidy. And we're not saying that we're going to cross some of it out, we're just saying that if there were a situation that would actually consume everything in the ideal regime for the 172 billion crowns and that 10 percent wouldn't be there, we could use it, and so we're going to declare it to the application, from the credit sources of the New Generation Fund, where we even have up to 400 billion crowns under very advantageous conditions. So the extra 10 percent that we have there as a reserve, we want to drain it. However, what they will eventually draw on will result from how these resources will gradually be allocated to individual projects. Well, that's one thing. The second thing that is important is because there have been a number of different circles, encounters with different platforms, unions, tripartite, etc., so basically the key components, subcomponents have been agreed. I'm just gonna repeat them. It is a digital transformation of CZK 28.5 billion, physical infrastructure and green transit much associated with decarbonization, clean mobility etc. Currently at CZK 80 billion, the education and labour market is reinforced to CZK 41 billion, the institution and the support of business in response to covid is CZK 14.6 billion, research, development, innovation CZK 13.2 billion and health and the resilience of the population is CZK 15 billion. So there are minor changes, which largely result from the fact that there are still refinements and negotiations with individual partners. At the same time - and this is an important report - the European Commission is increasingly demanding in terms of recalculating all projects and amounts for climate change. It is simply and simply quite hard pressure from Europe, and we had to recalculate some of the projects and raise them to the climate change area, because after the conversion of the difficult coefficient of the European Commission, which I do not want to discuss right now, it did not work out for 37 percent. So now we're back to 37 percent. As far as digitization is concerned, that's where we're going with the reserve. Maybe you remember, I said the condition is 20 percent, and we're at 25.4 percent. At the same time, we put the material into an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, which is a very important report, it was on Friday last week, so that we could fill the timetable of what we promised, which we are fulfilling so far. We also assume that our goal will be met, and this is the moment when it ends within 14 days of the interministerial, the government and then the move to the European Commission. [[10.20 hours]] We negotiate with the European Commission at almost daily level, these negotiations are correct, we simply understand the interests of all the actors in the negotiations, we respect that and I must say that the European Commission treats us fairly in this, although of course they are particularly demanding in the control of the so-called. Green transit and climate targets, but that's what we're counting on, so we accept that. In fact, the ambition of this plan is not only in terms of institutional, union, chamber and so on, but also how it will actually touch citizens as it touches businesses. I still think that this needs to be stressed and pointed out that this is not really an economic plan, it is a recovery plan, a reform-supporting plan, a plan supporting resilience in all spheres, both the spheres of the financial world or the economic world, as well as the spheres of health, in the fields of research, development and institutional environment. So I have to keep pointing out that we cannot pull this out of context and say "we would like to do even more for businesses," because for businesses, we have a plan called OP TAK or the current OP PIK, where we will still have almost 100 billion crowns. And we can look at other areas like the Just Transition Fund, we can talk about REACT, which is very interesting for health and investment related to health, while we in our plan strengthen health prevention more. All I'm saying is that we still have to compare it with a package of CZK 964 billion, which is the amount that has succeeded the government, or the Prime Minister, in fact, thanks to its insistence on the European Commission, and we will have this amount by 2027 or until 2030, if I count three more years. It's a record amount and we need to be able to write all the projects very well out of it, because we can't just cut out the National Recovery Plan, look at it and say, "I miss this" when, for example, the other ones have a much more elegant use or use for these types of projects. There was a public hearing this morning, maybe even still going on, I was there at the beginning, which closed the marathon, really at this point I dare say not tens, but hundreds, hundreds of meetings with individual unions, platforms, citizens, etc. There has not been a document or vision in recent years, or it does not matter what we call it, a plan that would be more discussed at a public level than the National Recovery Plan. And if anyone finds a plan like that, let them tell me about it. I'm saying he's not like that. That means it's being discussed, which, of course, doesn't mean that we're totally reaching out to everyone. That's not technically possible, because the original requirements were at 800 billion, then 280 billion, then less. So it is always necessary to look at it and to explain it to citizens, it is necessary to explain it to businesses, in which the plan may be interesting to them, that it is not a virtual thing, that it is not something that reaches out from Europe and is spent within one or another government or political order. This definitely strengthens communication with eGovernment authorities, the Citizen's Portal and so on. Just people will have easier communication with the state, cover white places with high-speed connections. After all, this is what the citizens are up to, and thus complementing a whole range of tools that we are using today within the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where we have clearly said that by 2024 there will be no single white site, even 2023, I apologize, originally it was 2024. There is clearly a source for flood protection, for the prevention of erosion, for the restoration of forests, for the extension of a network of charging stations, which is not only a business, but also a consumer issue, electrification and railway safety, it is a thing that bends down today and daily. And while we're at the safe transport, eventually there are also sources for cycling routes or to secure railway crossings. We have boiler subsidies that follow up on successful projects. We have a clear digitization of teaching, a thing demanded by consumers, pupils, students, parents. There is an increase in digital skills in the area of retraining, that is what will await us in the following years, a significant demand of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But even for example improving the position of women in the labour market, increasing the availability of preschool care, there are nursery, there are kindergartens. There are clearly strengthened positions of a citizen towards the public sphere, such as higher proclient orientation. It's all built on modern technology. The field of research and the field of medical sciences and research associated with it is developed there as in a few plans of the Czech Republic in the area of onko, in the field of cardio, in the field of infections and also there are resources for building health centers, again with regard to the latest technologies. But there's also a business branch that's very discussed and that's connected to the OP TAK program, and it's always got to be paired up like that, because we're gonna find something in this structural fund, we're gonna find something here. We've got start-ups, very discussed stuff, it's part of our Earth's innovative strategy for the future, where we have a whole pillar of the start-up. It follows up with the Digital Czech project, which is a government agent here. No one here has done more for the Digital Czech Republic than the last team under the leadership of Mr Dzurilla, and I have to say that even with the opposition it is communicating in the area of digitization, and I think it is a little less political discussion and more relevant, and it is a good thing that much of the resources from this will go there. Recyclable infrastructure will be built here, a very strong topic of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, circular solutions in businesses and again the area of retraining. I'm so glad we finally put quasi-equity instruments there. This is what was discussed a lot: let's put money into an institute such as the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank - the National Development Bank will be in the future, we already have the project completed - and let's finance these projects on a mesonet basis. That means it's not the money to spend, it's the money to deposit, and we're gonna get the money back on track. A very modern, important instrument, so we'll also find one there. [[10.30 hours]] We have come to the Minister of Culture because we are aware that the cultural sector has been severely affected, and in particular that part of creative culture, the creative industry is represented there more than in other countries, and I am glad that the digitalisation area there is very, very significant. So I believe that there are all those who think about the knowledge economy, an economy based on added value, who think that we want to create smart solutions in all areas from agriculture to industry, energy, that they will find themselves in it. At the same time, however, I acknowledge that they will not be found there 100%, as they would expect, because it is not possible simply to meet everyone from these sources. I wanted to thank all the actors and some of you who are calling me, and we are discussing some of your topics with them. Everyone appreciates this and I have to say objectively that even though we haven't put a whole bunch of things in there, it wasn't because it was bad ideas. That's not what we're talking about. It's about the fact that everyone sees it from their point of view, and if we went out to meet everyone 100%, we're going to make it out of hundreds and hundreds of different projects and projects that may have been well spent, but they wouldn't give us in the whole pyramid the fulfillment of the vision we want, that is, a self-confident country based on added value, based on innovation, based on science, research, based on smart solutions and based on not building production, industry, products and services in the area based on quantity, but on quality. And to do that, we need to invest in the solution of those that will bring it to us over the next few years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u12	I thank the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. We will continue with the speech of the rapporteur František Kopřiva and then with priority rights for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club Ondřej Veselý. Mr rapporteur, you have the floor for your speech - the disposition of one of the plaintiffs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for agreeing to this extraordinary meeting last time, albeit briefly. Dear Minister, thank you for the information you provided last time as well as for the update you made today. I allow myself to react or to conclude that, I agree completely with what you said last time and today, that it does not slide down to the cutting of a bear and that it is not really important either, if any billion moves between some component into another component, even I dare say a little bit of a heretic idea that it is not so important in the first place, whether we draw it all out or whether we take some additional loans, but really our primary interest should be, and I think that we should agree on this across the spectrum, because it is so much money and it is supposed to be investment in areas that are supposed to be competitive and up to date even in 30, 40 years. It's supposed to go to jobs that will be for the next generation. It is supposed to go into a sustainable economy, innovation, digitalisation, so I think we should find a consensus, and that is why we have also called this extraordinary meeting to talk about what type of projects at all, not exactly, but what types of projects it should go into and what types of projects it should look like and how we will then assess whether the specific projects that applicants will submit from the state administration or from the private sector, as we will consider meeting the stated objectives on which we have agreed throughout the European Union. So I think we should talk about this, and then, of course, we can put together all the comments about the individual components and see if we have any - or what there's a big consensus, which maybe we don't. So as for that, I'll allow myself to go back to the trial. I really appreciate the government being helpful, especially lately. I appreciate the approval of the agenda for this meeting, and we can discuss this here. I appreciate, for example, the creation of this site for the public, but it was presented quite late. I guess we have to admit that. While the first version of the Prime Minister took the President of the European Commission sometime in October, now we have actually half of April, it went into inter-ministerial proceedings, which is great, but from the end of the inter-ministerial review procedure until the deadline for the submission to the European Commission at the end of April will be a week, which I do not know is quite sufficient to include comments, and we cannot know how many will meet. And that was why we called this extraordinary meeting, because we opened it on a regular basis on the Committee on European Affairs and we have always heard: next week it will go to the interreort. But we heard that before Christmas, and then we heard it every week, so I don't want to criticize this now that it's already in the interreort, but I'd just like to point out that there's been some delay. And I'm not saying that a priori is wrong. If there were just any disagreements or need to work on it more, that's fine. But I would like to open up a question here that my fellow Members and I have discussed with the conveners of this extraordinary meeting, and I would like to hear, for example, your opinion, Minister, whether it would be worth asking the European Commission, because some Member States have already called for a delay in the deadline for submission. I'm not saying about six months, that would be counterproductive, of course, because we wouldn't be able to draw it out, but maybe a month if it were postponed, so that there would be time to settle the comments from the interreort. So that is one thing that we want to propose later in the resolution, and I think that this is a serious discussion now, because the week between the end of the inter-reort and the surrender, that seems to me really little, given that it had been dragged out three months before, perhaps, the inter-reort. As far as the process is concerned, you mentioned it here, and we have also heard it from the State Secretary for European Affairs that the government has discussed and consulted various stakeholders. You even said here that it was the most carefully consulted documentary in history, so I just wanted to ask if we could see a list of events and Stakeholders. It is clear to me that the government is discussing this with the biggest players in the private sector or with the trade unions, but I just had the opposite feedback from some non-governmental organisations that they said the consultations were not quite sufficient. Actually, I asked about it in the interpellation. So if you could mention some events. I know it's hard to hold public consultations during the pandemic right now, some round tables, but if, if you're saying that this is a historically best-consulted document, then I'm asking a little bit about what sectors, how many Stakeholders were invited there, and how the process was going on, because it wasn't so much of those publicly announced round tables, as far as I know. But that's the process, and it's already running, and I'll take it. And I understand it's been delayed. Now let's focus on what the general objectives of the recovery plan are. It is, as you have already mentioned, beyond the multiannual financial framework, it is roughly a quarter, a fifth of the money that we are going to draw from the European budget over the next seven years, and here was the agreement that it should go to projects - there are even minimum percentages of the package, of the amount that is going to go to digital trance and climate trance. This means that the money is supposed to go into projects that are innovative, whether in the state or in the private sector, which will help towards digitization. In fact, all these projects should meet the fact that they will be sustainable even in many years, and they should be rusty or resistant to other crises, whether against pandemics or climate change, or some other crises that we just don't have, folks, a clue about today. It should go into the economy, as you mentioned yourself, with high added value. It shouldn't support the cheap economy, the export production of components, and be somewhere on the tip of the supply chain. And in that, the Czech Republic certainly has reserves, which I think we all agree on, and that we do not want to be the montage of Europe. [[10.40 hours]] Some of the projects that the government is suggesting there in those components, so I think that unfortunately they are not entirely in line with these objectives and rather it is invested in - I will illustrate this in a particular example. Like in the digitization components, so there's a lot of these projects, just like they're outlined, so it seems to us that they're more into maintaining the existing infrastructure than going into new infrastructure. It's not just supposed to be some kind of patching up those old systems, but it's supposed to be a durable system in, like, IT, safe that meets modern standards, and it's not supposed to go into projects that are probably decades old, and even if they're invested in them, they'll still be older and less modern than if it's invested more reasonably. Then the other thing is that this is to be invested in - or should not be invested in some recurring expenditure or mandatorial expenditure - it should actually go to projects that contribute to a high-value economy, to innovations. So, for example, when there was this idea of paying pensions, I don't quite consider it something that would be a reform of the existing system. So it's just money from another compartment or from another pile to some existing unsustainable system, so again, it's not entirely in line with this recovery plan. Now I would like to comment on the consultation here with the Chamber of Deputies. I know it was opening up in some committees, but we, as representatives of the opposition, really had to convene an extraordinary meeting here, but also part of the social democracy club, to be fair. And it has to do with the fact that it's going to be a week after the interdepartment by the date of the surrender, so I think if it is - and if you said yourself, Minister, that you want to consult, it's going to be discussed with all the stakeholders, I think that The Chamber of Deputies, which is supposed to control the government in some way, is elected by the public, by the citizens, so that we should still discuss this here in the House after the end of the interreort. After the comments are settled there. I say settle, I do not say that all comments are to be worked out as positive, which, of course, cannot be done if there are thousands and many are in conflict, so of course it is not possible. But the point is to settle it so that everyone who comments on it has feedback, why... so that it doesn't slide to the cutting of the bear, but to make it clear that there's a consensus on what the targets are going to be like for all the components, virtually. pillars. We, therefore, still want to propose a resolution here with our colleagues, with whom we have called this meeting, which I will read in a detailed debate if we can get to it. I think I've already mentioned a lot of things here that we have. Furthermore, the objectives of the recovery fund. So one of those objectives is that it should be focused mainly on small and medium-sized enterprises and in the forward-looking sectors, as I said. The ones that are sustainable and the ones that will be up to date in 2050. It seems to us that there are a lot of custom-made projects for those big players, which a priori is nothing wrong. And clearly, in some sectors such as energy, there is not much competition, but all the more I think we should politically push it to be as simple as possible for the applicants to make it fair and transparent. To communicate with those future grant applicants. This also has to do with the fact that the government should use market surveys and preliminary market consultations. I'd like to ask if something like this happened in the commentary or in the feedback collection. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, there should be no mandatorial recurring expenditure, and the money from this fund should certainly not be used to cover public budgets, such as self-government or state. It's just not what this money's meant to be. I'm bohužel so. Not even for some kind of flat-rate compensation, so it's just not the goal of this fund. I know that we would definitely like to satisfy everyone, and I believe that we will continue to work on making those sectors most affected by pandemics, so that there are fair compensations. But, as you mentioned, we have other European funds, and we have a national budget, and this fund is simply not intended for the payment of mandatorial expenses. Last but not least, apart from the digital and climate transition, the social dimension of these investments should be taken into account. It also states that it should, after all, be consistent with the Green Agreement for Europe or with the Fair Transformation Fund, so that those investments, the projects covered by this fund do not support, for example, regional differences or increase some social injustices, etc. Now I'll get to the conclusion of my commentary on the individual components. I'm not gonna mention everyone right now, because if we're all here talking about all these components, that would probably be long enough. That's what I think committees are for. So I would like to ask you, my honourable fellow Members, through the President, to take it up on your committee and perhaps your pillar or component that concerns your gesture, so just discuss it there. I think it's a better platform than it is here in plenary. However, I rather want to illustrate the general infirmities that I have already mentioned. So, in the case of digitization, these investments should lead us to better interconnection of information systems and to more accessible state services for citizens. Investment in IT experts directly in offices or hospitals is crucial, because otherwise there will be situations where suppliers write their own procurement documents, tailored, thus preventing fair competition and creating an unhealthy dependence on one supplier, etc. It is unambicious relatively and without a real vision and there are no concrete proposals actually even for the follow-up... to change the existing processes. Like I said, it's more like pouring money into existing systems, which is definitely not entirely wrong, that it shouldn't be done at all, but it's definitely not the main objective. The need for IT experts also applies in cybersecurity. As part of these investments, it would certainly be more appropriate to place greater emphasis on strengthening the role of the National Cyber and Information Security Office, otherwise inefficient investments will be made in overpriced or, worse, into inefficient software security. I would like to respond, Minister, you mentioned here last time, and I would argue that the government is not counting on, say, exaggeration, concrete, concrete, which in many of these components, so it is true that there is more of a focus on more sustainable projects. And, for example, there must be concrete in the infrastructure. But specifically for component 2.6 Nature protection and adaptation to climate change, so that is where the design with concrete water tanks is based in order to combat drought and water protection in the landscape. But there is a belief in a large part of the professional public that they are too invasive and can also be counterproductive and problematic in many respects and that better means to combat drought and water protection are less invasive methods such as anti-erosion limits, wetlands, pools, etc. [[10.50 hours]] And, finally, education. There's a 3.1 component, so we think it's well designed. It's actually there, it's supposed to reform the curriculum with an emphasis on the development of IT thinking, informatical thinking and digital competences, which I think we all agree is crucial for the future of our economy. But once again, there's this ailment that the component should also target the field of expertise, which I'm not sure is what it's supposed to be right now. I don't think they're there now, if I remember correctly. On the contrary, we welcome, for example, the project of the Fund for providing IT equipment to disadvantaged pupils, which is certainly a necessary thing. It turned out during the pandemic, during distance lessons. Finally, I will allow myself to point out in the transport components that it might be better to prioritize the railroad, and as I have already said not only in those projects that are already underway at some advanced stage, but also in some new infrastructure, to electrify public transport in cities and to cycle paths. Which you mentioned is where the bike trails are supposed to be. I'm just not sure about the allocation right now, if that's enough. In the case of electromobility, I think that investment could also be aimed at infrastructure, because it is available to everyone. So that it doesn't just slide back to some subsidies like electric cars, like the boiler subsidies. It's probably better than subsidies again, I don't know, on some steam locomotives if I overdo it, but it seems to me that the government is proposing to take the easiest route here. They're just gonna put out subsidies for the citizens, ask them to trade a piece for a piece. It should simply also be invested in the infrastructure so that it is sustainable. So I tried to cover all those areas, comments about the process. So here I'm going to have to poke one more time - I don't know if I've mentioned it yet. I would ask you, Minister, whether the government is counting on some benchmarks or some metrics, which will then be evaluated in the coming years, whether what is written now on paper - and that it often looks so nice that we actually agree on it, and I appreciate it - but how it will be evaluated that the projects, when the applicant applies for the grant, the project is built or processed, will be bought, so if it somehow evaluates that it is actually in line with those objectives - digital, climate transition, the social dimension that it has, and so on and so on, that it goes into small medium-sized enterprises, what I mentioned here. Well, if there's any way to evaluate it. My last question concerns whether there will be any evaluation. Because you've done it, and I agree with you that these projects are supposed to be in line with some existing concepts and strategies. Well, if there's any need for this to be evaluated. I don't know, building on the concept of rural development and so on and so on. So I'll take the liberty of ending up in this place. So I'm not going to comment on the other components right now, because we could talk about that up here. I'm more concerned with the process, about whether the comments will be settled there, whether or not the government is considering asking for the delay to work it out. Then I'd just like to repeat the question, because it's important. If the government intends to present it then to the Chamber of Deputies, after settling the comments, then I would, with permission, read the resolution again. I think, as the House, we should want to discuss this one more time after all these comments have been dealt with. So that we can see here the final form, which then the Prime Minister or you, Minister, will take the European Commission to Brussels, so that we can see what is going to happen in the coming years, where those, up to 190 billion, are going to go. I thank you for your attention at the moment and look forward to the discussion. Especially about what I was just talking about, the trial. I would still like to challenge you, colleagues, let us perhaps not discuss the individual components, perhaps those which you consider most important. But right now, I think we should be mainly concerned with the process, because there's a deadline coming up, and I'd like us to have a consensus on at least these general issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u14	This was the rapporteur and one of the plaintiffs of František Kopřiva. So now we're going to continue. The first is with priority rights for the Social Democracy Club Ondřej Veselý and then with the SPD's opinion Jiří Kobza will perform, then a colleague of Baxa and others. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I actually have a rather easy job with a position for the CSSD club, because both previous speakers have said a lot. I'll explain why we joined as a club, even though we didn't all sign it, but we took it as a club to have this meeting convened. We considered the National Recovery Plan, as set up, to be very bad at that first stage. I must say - and I thank the Minister that he has long justified this - that there has been a huge shift since the original proposals. It's really starting to come true the way we imagined the National Recovery Plan. That means it's not going to be investment in concrete, it's going to be investment in people. We imagine that the National Recovery Plan is really to be used as an opportunity to significantly modernise the Czech economy, the Czech human resources, to use them for digitization, for the restoration of Czech industry and for the Czech environment, the use of Green Deal. The shifts have come in really big, and I thank the Minister that he takes account of the comments and gradually, gradually, the National Recovery Plan really takes account of the contours or goes towards the contours that we imagine. However, I also give the truth to the rapporteur, Mr František Kopřiv, that we are not yet at the end of the process and that the process will really be important. The only thing I did not agree with and we do not agree with František Kopřiva is the motion for a resolution. Well, he hasn't read it yet, but I'll be expressing myself. At point eight, there is agreement with the part where we really believe that the funds from the national recovery plan should not be directed towards the mandatorial expenditures. However, there are explicitly mentioned pensions and we believe that investing in the reform of the pension system would be right in fair pensions. That's why we're bothered by the explicit calculation of pensions. On the contrary, I would like to appeal to the Minister, although it is not entirely his concern, it is rather the question of the Minister of Finance, that we should consider making more significant use of the funds for preferential loans. The Minister said very well that the funds, or the loans, were very advantageous. I am convinced that, in the current state of public finances, we cannot negotiate such advantageous loans, and we would not resist discussing using much more of these funds than the Minister mentioned ten percent. I'd be happy to have another discussion. I will also be happy to agree on how the National Recovery Plan should work. I would stress what the rapporteur has mentioned several times, which means that a governing body should be set up, ideally represented by a broad sphere of bodies, social partners, which would assess the applications and then evaluate them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u16	I thank Mr Ondřej Veselý. So I will now ask Jiří Kobza to give his opinion on the SPD, and my colleague, Mr Baxa, will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to make a few comments here on what has been said and what I have read in the last version of the recovery plan, which, in the volume of less than 500 pages, arrived two days ago with the fact that this is the last version still underway. I have one thing to say. What didn't come out here is actually what all of these projects we're going to have to borrow on, we're going to pay back and who's going to pay them off. Since hundreds of billions are flying here, and taking into account the current state of the state budget in which these projects are not yet taken into account, we know that this year, according to certain forecasts, the state budget deficit will be close to one trillion crowns. And reconstruction projects are projects in which the European Union is pushing us in some cases. And it really is a question which one we need and which one we need less. [[11.00 hours]] However, the fact is that the funds that will be used for this recovery fund will arise from European bonds for which it will also be used. to vouch for our country, too. However, it will also guarantee the money that will go to other countries. So, once again, it is not addressed anywhere in the first place how these bonds will be treated, how they will be traded, but also how they will be settled eventually. That's what I'd like to know. And it is a fact that this whole plan reminds me basically of advertising from Czech Television for a necessary loan for a new kitchen, which sounds terribly beautiful, but it is not solved how and who will repay the loan. Because debts have to be paid, we all know that. Personally, the plan reminds me of Marshallův's plan, which basically had long-term debt plans and long-term financial commitments, which our then government fortunately rejected. And I think we should also approach this plan very, very reserved. There is a fact, as the Minister said, that the plan is constantly evolving, it is constantly changing. What we don't know is what wasn't even in the plan, because it's 488. the page below is written that part 4 of the overall impact of this plan will only be supplemented when the inter-ministerial procedure is over, but then it must be evaluated again. It seems almost as if the government, which is so willing to jump on this plan, is counting on its concern to spend the money, while paying off this debt will be dealt with by a completely different government, so there is no need to deal with it now. But our children will be here, our grandsons will be here. And it is clear that plans for tax increases are already mentioned, how the burden of repaying these debts will actually be passed on to citizens, and that is unacceptable for us. So we do not agree with this plan, we cannot support it, because it certainly does not correspond to plans for how a good economy should approach the state's economy and how it should ensure not only the current prosperity of corporations that will participate in completing this plan, but, above all, it should think about how to reduce the country's debt burden and reduce the risk that our children and our grandchildren will have big, big problems in order to somehow be able to pay off these debts. Because we realize that the system of our economy, which is based on the fact that most of the added value created here is being sucked out abroad, does not create reserves, rather, it is constantly creating new and new debts that are growing to a really tragic degree. And the recovery fund essentially calls these debts a little different, but they're still just debts. Because even the money we get from this fund in the form of subsidies is the money we borrow on the basis of the bonds we guarantee. So this is our position, this is a call and an appeal to the government and other political parties to stop the country's debt. To be very careful about further debt and to realize that the debts will simply have to be repaid by our citizens, their children, their grandsons, because the debts are getting too much. And it really is necessary to think very rationally, step on the brakes and start thinking about what we really need and what we don't have to get out of it, because to quote feldkurate Katz, that's what we defuse when people lend us. But we're gonna have to pay it back, too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u18	Thank you. Mr Martin Baxa will now appear, Mrs Balcarová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr Vice Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let me introduce you to a few of my views and comments concerning the National Recovery Plan, which are particularly linked to how the National Recovery Plan should be reflected so-called into the territory, on the territorial dimension, and what is important, in our view, in particular, from the perspective of self-government. It would certainly be worth discussing what Mr Vice Prime Minister mentioned here in his introductory words, what the rapporteur and some other colleagues mentioned, how honestly this programme was discussed, how the priorities to be included in it were evaluated, how individual ministries considered what to include in the programme, and what is the overall plan of the Czech Republic, with how to use these unprecedentedly large funds. I would perhaps just start by mentioning that this is not really about the money that kind of lands on us and which we can freely spend in the sense that it is a loan. Not in the sense that we will treat the money as a loan, but in the sense that eventually, in some perspective, the Czech Republic will have to repay the money through the European Union. It's not a reservation like my previous speaker mentioned here, it's more of an appeal to treat the funds very carefully. In order to really guide them into areas that we see as absolutely priority, simply because we will have to pay back the money that we are going to use here by the end of 2050. And that this is a rather large commitment that the Czech Republic is taking. And I'm talking not only about the 170 billion roughly, but also about the other tens of billions that the minister here mentioned for the option of funding through... or that they would be used through loans or loans. I don't think the debate went exactly the way it was supposed to. I know that the Vice Prime Minister then pointed out that it was so many different discussions. I don't think that's quite so obvious in that result, especially at that time. However, I do not want to go back to what has happened here in the past months because the proposal is in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and there is not much time for the Czech Republic to send the European Union, the European Commission the final form and defend the individual priorities that we are to have. I would like to mention two fundamental points in this context. The first is that, of course, there are compromises in these negotiations with the European Union. I think it has succeeded in some areas. I welcome the fact that, in the end, funding for education has been provided at a very high level and focused on what is really important, i.e. transformation of the content of education, school education programmes, development of competences. I also welcome the way in which the demands in the field of culture, which is affected very strongly by the COVID-19 pandemic, are being covered at the moment. Among other things, Mr Vice Prime Minister, I think you have not exactly stressed in your opening speech the fact that the primary objective of the RRF is to bring the country back to life as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, and that money should primarily focus on this purpose. So there are things that are definitely positive. I would now like to mention what I think is still a reserve of this programme, which has been poorly reflected in it, and what is important for the development of our country. I believe that little of the programme takes into account territorial cohesion, territorial dimensions, the needs of self-government, and not in terms of what should be used up by the cities themselves, the municipalities and regions themselves, but what serves in accordance with these objectives to restore the Czech Republic as a result of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[11.10 hours]] Let me just remind you that, as far as local investment is concerned, or using it for cities and municipalities, they were not able to get into the so-called REACT, even though of course we tried to do so and some original ideas were. I want to highlight that it is the self-government that can meet the fact that they are able to quickly, efficiently prepare investments in line with what this programme envisages. I would like to stress that the effects of the economic crisis on cities and municipalities are, of course, large. In addition to what is often mentioned, there is talk of the so-called multiplier effect of local investment, which is very high in terms of employment, quality of life in individual municipalities, and where the individual priorities and components of the National Recovery Plan should actually be reflected in the future. Of course, the Prime Minister also knows from his dealings with the Union of Towns and Municipalities that the National Recovery Plan has aroused great expectations, has given rise to great hope, has invested enough money already to prepare this plan. But the resulting resemblance, as is currently proposed, seems to be relatively small for self-government. And, of course, I very much appreciate the fact that, for example, there will be a big discussion on Monday about how transport priorities should be reflected in the Transport Operational Programme in that future programming period of the European Union. But the National Recovery Plan is right here on the table, and now it's supposed to provide the opportunity. I would focus on two specific areas which, in my view, are under-accentuated in the NPO, not designed to support it, and this is public transport and the revitalization of brownfields. The component of sustainable and safe public transport looks very rich at first sight, I would say. It's over 22 billion crowns, if I'm not mistaken. But when we look at the content of this component, we have to say that it is primarily state transport investment and investment in state transport infrastructure. And I don't think that's quite enough. I am not quite sure how it is in the National Recovery Plan that issues such as fleet renewal, whether it concerns railways or whether it concerns public transport, are accentuated. And once again, there may be an argument: for these purposes it will be drawn from the Operational Programme Transport in the future financial period, but right now it would be an opportunity to respond through the National Recovery Plan to the needs of public transport in the Czech Republic. In addition to investing in a fleet, whether railroads or public transport in general, there is one specific thing that may seem at first sight only as an interest in a limited number of municipalities. In fact, this is an essential issue, and this is a reconstruction of tram lines. When we add up the population of cities using this infrastructure, we get to very high numbers. And although originally the proposal was in one of the previous versions, it is currently not there. Once again, there may be a real emphasis on, say, a green segment of life in cities and throughout our country, on the focus of the National Recovery Plan. And the fact that, in the end, public transport in this sense, not only does the money go into the tracks, I would say, the railroad tracks, in which it shows little, is simply a mistake. And it's actually an opportunity to, or we still have the opportunity to fix it, adjust it. I think it would certainly be worth it, although I say again, I appreciate the willingness to emphasise the greater role of this segment then in the future Operational Programme Transport. It is actually a goal, that is to say public transport and its enlargement, which is fully in line with what the European Union is asking us, how the so-called green economy, if I use this term, is not entirely happy, but in a statement of what these documents are saying, to be seen for the future development of our country. The second theme is the revitalization of brownfields. It is quite specific, perhaps relatively small in the whole package, but otherwise it is as if a very specific segment that allows the development of life in cities is not only a way to get rid of some sites that are problematic, but if it were a prudent, reasonable selection of perhaps some very important brownfields, we would undoubtedly have come to the fact that this can serve not only to revive self-government but also to support the economy through these investments, to an opportunity for economic development. In Pilsen, we are making a major transformation of the former brewery premises to the modern startup centre with the help of money from the running funds of the European Union. And this is an example of how it can be rationally exploited, or what opportunity brownfields can provide if there is enough money for them. Mr. Vice Prime Minister, the brownfield component was there. He's not there after all. The amount wasn't large, I think, CZK 4 billion. But what seems to be a small sum in a large amount of 170 or more billion crowns, so for the territorial dimension, would represent a very significant increase and a very significant aid for the self-government. We would certainly find a number of such examples. I mentioned the ones that are positive. But we have to say that in addition to cross-cutting topics such as digitalisation, such as education, such as culture, such as environmental topics, so specific - I stress specific - support for the territorial dimension, for self-government is a pillar that is simply not affected here, which, if properly implemented, would certainly help the development of the Czech Republic, and I say again, fulfil the objectives that the RRF programme or its projection in the form of the National Recovery Plan in the Czech Republic would contribute to recovering from the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has hit us so hard. There's not much time, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. That is why I took the liberty rather than going back to the way this has been discussed and where what has been neglected or neglected, so I would like to appeal to these very specific things that could help the inhabitants of the Czech Republic in cities, municipalities and municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u20	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Mrs Balcarová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u21	Thank you. Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Government, Minister, Madames and gentlemen, I am sorry, I could not exercise my right of priority when I was in charge of the meeting, so now I am going to be among the others. The National Recovery Plan submitted is an important document. I want to remind you that we are in July, respectively. In June last year, when discussing the third amendment to the state budget for 2020, the government was asked for a seven-year plan to stabilise public finances as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Many mocked it. Many have said what we imagine here. At the same time, there was already a programme in the European Commission that said that it was necessary to restore the economy of the Member States, including the Czech Republic, after the pandemic crisis. I can repeat the facts. It is about 180 billion subsidies and 415 billion loans that can be drawn, i.e. compared to the possibility of a state budget, a significant amount of possible use outside the mandatorial expenditure. The National Reform Plan must also be part of each plan and it is expected to be linked to the whole new programming period, i.e. by 2027 or so. 2030, as stated by the Vice-President of the Government. What bothers me about the document or what I can read is that it's not complete yet. We got the National Reform Plan incomplete. The government didn't really finish it until now, ending the settlement of comments on 20. Four, which is still ongoing. [[11.20 hours]] For this parliamentary debate - and I don't want to say that we planned it soon, I just want to say that we planned it so that we could get to it, and the government is late. We all have to realize that. It's a shame, because we only have partial material in front of us, and I take it as a partial. It does not contain the basic strategy of using these resources within the entire recovery strategy of our country, and that, in my opinion, is a fundamental flaw in the material. The presentation by the government and the idea of its discussions in the Chamber of Deputies do not correspond to the strategic gravity of the material, and I have said those amounts. Let's call it a simile. For example, discussing the state budget, first reading, crucial strategic steps, where it will focus and what we will do next. This, in my view, is to say that it must contain and clearly set out the overall strategic objective of the Czech Republic following funding for the entire period 2020 to 2030. We're still in those three-year programming plans, but this is strategy. It must contain more steps and indicate how to use these resources. It's important, in my opinion, that we require government material to do so. It's just not possible without it. It must include both the support of business entities as a fundamental element of economics of the Czech Republic, i.e. individual segments of industry, but there is also a need for support of the state sector, which is only valid so far and it is not yet clear where it should be directed. It must be in the final one, that is, after 20 April of this year, I would like the National Recovery Plan to include a reduction in the cost of running the state, creating greater efficiency in communication and governance between the state and citizens, business entities. It is necessary to define the nature of the bailout and to help start the economics of the Czech Republic where the pandemic most damaged it. These are not phrases, these are basic principles of where we need to go. This is due to the fact that the resolution of the modernization itself, the construction law, the pension reform to which the government has not reached - and I do not please blame it, because no government has been in such a difficult situation in the definition of a new pension system as this government, which has dealt with the pandemic crisis, and I have been involved in a number of negotiations on pension reform in the past. But it is necessary to look further, because the strengthening of some departmental budgets even with the help of a pandemic damaged effective (?) and the rationalization of these resorts needs to be dealt with not only by the digitization, which is often bowed down because it needs basically the classic basis of a new start. The Czech Republic must process these financial resources and priorities of the National Recovery Plan in a broader, at least seven-year plan. Again, I recall June last year and our call for the government to do so. To this day, it is not. I would like for the years 2022 to 2028 to have prepared material that can be used. Let us remember that, overall, a strategy should be presented to the Chamber of Deputies, how the Czech Republic will use meaningfully and effectively in the period 2021 to 2027, respectively. 2030, with the extension, as the Minister has pointed out, out of its own budgetary resources, a total of over 900 billion CZK of subsidies and 400 billion of preferential loans. The European Union's new operational programmes have a subsidy distribution of 550 billion, humiliated by the contributions of the Czech Republic to the European Union. These programmes already have both their substantive and financial priorities, and they are being finalised, and I am glad that at least in some segments the government has made progress here. There are three separate specific subsidy programmes outside the above mentioned operational programmes, totaling CZK 200 billion. It is a fair transformation aimed at supporting and transforming coal regions. I think there's CZK 42.7 billion in there. This is the Karlovy Vary, Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region and I would like them to be used there. For me as South Bohemia is important the program of operational programme Fishing, more than three quarters of a billion crowns, because it needs to be realized that it is a traditional part of our agriculture, but also of the manufacturing industry, our export, which is very effective. The modernisation fund, which is managed by the European Investment Bank, not by the European Commission, is for ten states, including the Czech Republic. The subsidies from the revenues of the sale of European carbon dioxide allowances are estimated at around CZK 150 billion. It will probably be higher in reality, and the Minister will probably confirm that the prices of allowances are a matter of great importance to these matters. Therefore, if we are to discuss the National Recovery Plan, we need to concentrate on the fact that the European Union's resources have a certain scope of use. It is necessary to include in the overall concept of the seven-year recovery plan of the Czech Republic first the use of these EU subsidy instruments and their provision by co-financing of end-users. So the state budget and end users will also have to participate, which means both the public sector that I have talked about and the business entities with which we have to discuss it fairly. The submitted material, unfortunately, so far envisages an implementation scheme for these funds. It is more than desirable for the implementation of funds to be used by the state sector and intended for business entities to be separated from each other. I believe that a combination of the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank with a combination of expert commissions consisting of the relevant ministry, government nominees for science and research and, where appropriate, reputable experts from universities and other institutions is the appropriate place for business entities. Finally, let me state that the submitted material clearly shows that the anticipated use of subsidies from the National Recovery Programme was created as a collection of wishes for individual resorts and some special purpose groups, and I am sorry. I'm even more sorry that there isn't a clear vision in some resorts. The National Reform Programme plan has obviously been developed subsequently as a mandatory essay exercise required by the European Union. I understand that some people want to speak brussels to be successful, but that's probably not what we need. The entire material does not meet the expected principles approved by the European Commission, which, in my view, is a problem, and does not solve the fund's offered by testing the entire multi-annual strategic plan for the new start-up and efficiency of the entire national economy, including the modernisation of the state administration. [[11.30 hours]] In view of these facts and the fundamental strategic impact of the entire European Union subsidy fund complex, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution, which we will present in a detailed debate, and commit the government to redress. One. The submitted material of the National Recovery Plan, including the National Reform Plan, is required to be redesigned to address these major deficiencies. Two. As a priority, the Chamber of Deputies should be presented to discuss the National Reform Plan, and the entire National Recovery Plan would then be adjusted accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u22	Thank you. Mrs Dana Balcarová will now appear. Mrs Krutáková will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to talk about three components. The first is 2.6 Nature Protection and adaptation to climate change. Perhaps the first thing I would like to mention is that I see it as a big mistake that this component was being processed by the Ministry of Agriculture and not by the Ministry of the Environment. I don't mean that the Ministry of Agriculture is doing it all wrong, but it's just the body or the resort that deals with adaptation measures in the landscape and climate change, and that's why I feel it's a great shame it's been decided that way. Maybe that's where my accusations come from, or they're pirát. Overall, the proposal in this component does not support one of the main themes of the National Recovery Plan, i.e. eco-modernization, including landscape care, since the measure aims to implement either inappropriate adaptation measures such as the treatment of watercourses and water reservoirs, or only non-innovative and given by law, such as the restoration of forests. So the benefit of this component is essentially either going in the wrong direction, or there's no way that it can be considered innovative. The Ministry of Agriculture included watercourse adjustments in the National Recovery Plan, although they result in an undesirable drain of water from the landscape. I think my previous speakers have already been told that the concreteization of the landscape is one of the things that bothers them about the recovery plan. And I must say that it will really be very important that the conservation of water in the countryside is encouraged by these measures and that, on the contrary, the measures that the Ministry of Agriculture will support do not deepen the acceleration of the water drain so that there is no directing, channelling, replacing or deepening the troughs under the pretext of increasing safety at higher flows before floods. So for me, these measures would really need to be moved in a direction to bring about ecological modernisation, because this component is also intended to contribute to achieving climate neutrality, and I think that is not the case at all. Thank you. The second component I would like to mention is component 2.5, which is called Building renovation and air protection. As far as air protection is concerned, this is dealt with only by boiler subsidies, and I think it is very little because air protection in the Czech Republic suffers from a large deficit and actually because of air pollution runs against the Czech Republic at this time, so it would be good to use the resources for air protection, not only by boiler subsidies, but also in industry and in heating. As for the New Green Savings, I'd like to ask Minister Havlíček - but he doesn't listen to me now - you're listening. I was just about to ask if there's a $10 billion allocation to New Green Savings, and actually, in a way, there's a funding blackout covering New Green Savings from the state budget, if you can see it so that the National Recovery Plan serves to fulfill or subsidize the blackout that is from the Ministry of Environment to New green savings, because originally there were planned for the year around CZK 4 billion, but only 80 million are coming from the Ministry of Environment's budget, and the rest is just planned to go from the national recovery plan. Is this really how it's supposed to be? And even if it is financed this way, for the 10 billion there are 35 705 renovation buildings planned in the National Recovery Plan, but according to the long-term strategy of the Czech Republic in this optimistic scenario it is calculated that approximately 70 000 buildings will be renovated in three years, heated. So I see it's not even half of it. So that's where I wanted to ask if there was a reduction in the long-term strategy or what caused it. And the last thing I would like to mention briefly is component 2.3 of the transformation of industry and the transition to cleaner energy sources. And I would like to point out there and ask why there are so few opportunities for households in this component, because it's all about industry, but there's just very little for those households. That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u24	Thank you, ma'am. It is now Mrs Jana Krutáková's turn. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the National Recovery Plan, which we do not have enough time to discuss at the moment, is to restore our country and move it forward. Instead, it places it symbolically in the brine and preserves it. I would like to introduce you to the reasons why I believe that the plan is inefficient and its individual chapters debatable. Since September 2020, a number of proposals have been circulating, even amounts have not been reported in the first versions, and descriptions of individual areas have been economical and often quite general. It is a total of 170 billion Czech crowns. 70 per cent of these appropriations must be used up by 2022, remaining 30 per cent by 2023. The reimbursement will take place until 2026. The draft of the National Recovery Plan contains a number of unspeakable statements. I'm not talking about the alibis category of obstacles and risks that occur in all components. It feels like the government is washing its hands when it writes for almost every target that, for example, the risk is the lack of implementation of recycling obligations arising from the newly adopted legislation, which is contained in component 2.7 of the Circular Economy. Where, however, can citizens read, how and best, and specifically, does the government want to overcome these obstacles? How is it possible that the financial frameworks of the various areas of the plan are being disposed of? Why do we not know what methodology you have reached these numbers? We do not have more detailed numbers, tables, models or predictions for any of these components. The individual items need to be expanded, not only for us taxpayers, but above all for the European Commission, which will approve the plan. As far as the discussion of this plan is concerned, the Czech Republic is also very limping behind its neighbours. In Slovakia, ministers are really debating with citizens, even on-line discussions are being held Let's discuss a recovery plan with ministers. And I intend to give an example of Slovakia so that you cannot again argue with us by talking about examples from Germany and Austria and they are on. Slovakia is our closest neighbor, we share a number of characteristics. They also have high numbers of infected and dying people with covid. They even dealt with the political and constitutional crisis there. Yet their ministers have found time for their citizens to discuss with them how they can take advantage of this unrepeatable opportunity. [[11.40 hours]] And then at the last meeting, when this National Recovery Plan was started, we learned from Minister Havlíček that there are official websites. However, when I was preparing for this point, there was no mention of this site anywhere. There's nothing said about him on the website of the Office of the Government, and that doesn't make any sense to me. And those domains that work there... There's about eight of them, I counted. And now for the recovery plan itself. The European Commission's plan envisages two flagships that will sail through the stormy waters of post-covide Europe. It's digitalization and green trance, i.e. the transition from carbon economy to carbon-free. While the Commission sets minimum percentages for these priorities, it also states that they should be included to a certain extent in all areas of the recovery plan, regardless of what they relate to. What about the Czech plan? The level of implementation of the green agenda is 13 areas out of a total of 25 net zero percent, the level of fulfilment of the digital agenda is 11 regions out of a total of 25 again net zero percent. I think we lack enthusiasm for these changes, especially those so-called. green, ecological, environmentally friendly. Instead, we learn from representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, namely Deputy Minister Jirotková, that green transformation will be painful. Yes, it will be difficult. And with such a nothing-saying recovery plan, it's probably hard and double heavy. However, so that I wouldn't just be critical. It is true, for example. component 2.4 The development of net mobility, unlike other components, still contains relatively specific objectives and commitments. Now I'd like to focus on some points more specifically. Recycling. However, there is talk of recycling in general. Circularly, not only the concept of a circular economy is repeated, but only in a few areas we want to recycle more municipal waste, water and medical material. But where are we with recycling of other materials? A number of them await us - building materials, photovoltaic panels. We should think about this more specifically. Corruption plans for the corrupt government. Why do we have priorities in the national plan that Andrej Babiš could have put forward long ago? He's been in the government for almost eight years, and the result of his anti-corruption activities is that his second government will put the Green and Digital Economy into a plan - I quote - to adopt a law on the protection of notifiers and the related amendment law. Is this some kind of joke? Furthermore, the Government acknowledges in its proposal: At present, the notifiers of infringements in the working context are not sufficiently protected against retaliatory measures. After all these controversial purchases during emergency situations, we will need to protect a few such corruption notifiers in the Czech Republic as much as possible. Health. In the next part, the National Recovery Plan also focuses on health care. Although I fully acknowledge my efforts to support and develop our hospitals and doctors, I think it would be better to focus on modernising our years of functioning system instead of, for example, developing our years. building a Czech oncological institute, which would probably be a large concrete cube in the middle of a green meadow. Moreover, this planned construction lacks coherence and a specifically developed proposal for who will need to work in the Institute, what will happen to sick patients after examination, where they will be treated. It would not be better to support financially, for example. Masaryk's Cancer Institute, which already has a fixed background and a network of doctors? Centralization will limit the availability of average people. Who will decide which patients will be treated in faculty hospitals and who in the dream monster oncology center? Has this been consulted with professional companies? Regardless of the fact that there is absolutely no support for the dental and pediatric sectors in the National Recovery Plan. It is interesting, however, how much space has been given to hematooncology, which is the field of the former Minister of Health. The Czech Republic holds first in colon cancer, but there is no mention of this problem. I do not dare to question individual medical disciplines, and in no way to label them just because they are devoted to a political nominee. However, we lack a clear method of why one branch got more space, while another, no less important, did not. Right. I hope nobody accuses me of hydrogen obsession, but that's the music of an environmentally sensitive future. However, in component 2.4 Net mobility is only marginally calculated with hydrogen, electric vehicles and CNG remain dominant sources. We have obviously decided not to take advantage of our country's strategic advantage for the green-transition period, namely the dense rail network. Quote article from web right.cz concerning the adjusted budget for new trains: " We had to make significant cuts in some areas, including transport, and the decommissioning of rolling stock, said Adam Pápai from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. " - I'm making an interesting point. In September 2020, at a conference in Pardubice, Minister Havlíček promised 40 billion for trains, only 36 billion and 8 April for news.cz by the end of February 2021 Minister Havlíček says otherwise - I quote: "The sources that go into transport are CZK 22 billion and they go into the railway in terms of digitization, security systems and strengthening railway safety. We're going to fund state-of-the-art trends." Another illogical thing is that 5G coverage is solved on train corridors, not directly in wagons. Due to outdated train sets, the signal will not penetrate the construction of wagons and plated safety glass, so this effort will be completely unnecessary. Bottom line -n while in Germany they have hydrogen-powered trains and in Poland they intend to use European money for train sets, we will become a railway museum in a situation where we are to receive CZK 170 billion. Colleagues and colleagues, I will not play the oracle here and predict the future, but I fear that a poorly managed recovery plan will not restore us, reform us, and we will once again waste this unique chance. We do not have much time to make a fundamental change to the proposal. After all, the government does not listen to opposition or strategic partners in this area for a long time. And this is actually proof that yesterday afternoon we received only the current version of the National Recovery Plan by 483 pages. Thus, we have been given less than 24 hours to prepare, and this does not really strike me as a helpful and transparent negotiation. At the end of my speech, I would like to ask the Government and the Minister, through the President, to really mark all the proposals, suggestions and comments here, and to deal with them in the context of the commentary procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u26	Thank you. It is now Mr Petr Bendl's turn in the general debate, but he is not present. Next is Vojtěch Munzar, who is also not present. And Mr Ondřej Profant, he is not present either. Mr Jan Zahradník is next. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u27	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to comment on the National Recovery Plan. In its preambles, our National Recovery Plan also comments and refers to the Green Deal, which has been adopted by the European Union and which is, in fact, the basis of essentially the European future. I'm quoting what this Green Deal sets out as a target here. It sets out the objective of transforming the European Union into a fair and prosperous society with a modern and competitive economy using resources efficiently, which will not produce greenhouse gas emissions in 2050, but in which economic growth will be separated from the use of sources of total greenhouse gas emissions, the use of resources and waste production. [[11.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, please note that this objective to which the European Union wants to aim is actually contrary to fundamental natural and physical laws, i.e. to separate economic growth from energy consumption, is simply technically, naturally impossible. But, well, if we are based on this delusion and if we want to make this huge debt, both the National Plan and the Recovery, and therefore the whole European strategy assumes, it requires that at least some of this money be used meaningfully and truly for the benefit of not only the European but also our future. I've focused on Chapter 2.3. The transition to a cleaner energy source. Here I must say that as the flagship of this chapter is considered photovoltaic. Of the total volume of roughly CZK 6.1 billion that should go into this, 5 billion are therefore counted on photovoltaic sources and around 1.1 billion for the reconstruction and development of hot water distributions or heat distributions. I understand that this is the easiest way to meet the dreams and objectives of the European Union in the field of climate measures in the field of energy, but the truth is that our photovoltaic energy simply cannot be saved. We are not in such a geographical environment as to be able to rely on and wager our energy on stable solar energy. I deliberately entered the search engine in the.pdf file, which is there, from the 500 pages entered nuclear energy, nuclear energy, core. It doesn't even exist once. I understand, Minister. Nuclear energy is not in the taxonomy of the European Union; it simply cannot be supported. But it must be said that there may be a change in this taxonomy. I don't know, now I have an indication here that seven representatives, yes, here... seven representatives of the Member States of the European Union have turned to the Commission President with a call for the development of the nuclear sector to be or to enter the European Commission's field of view. It is even possible to quote here: The nuclear sector is being questioned by a number of Member States despite its indispensable contribution to the fight against climate change and the spread of untapped synergies between nuclear and renewable technologies. So the core is simply the way that could help build climate neutral energy. I think that in our strategy, in the National Recovery Plan, it would be possible to get to that, it would be possible to spend some money and determine it in the National Energy Recovery Plan. I would like to say in the field of nuclear energy, but I wonder if it would not be a reason for many of our colleagues to reject such a challenge and priori. That is why I would leave only the word energy. And since I know that the rapporteur Kopřiva is going to familiarise us with the motion for a resolution in a detailed debate, I would suggest that, as one of the points of that resolution, there is also a point in which we will call on the Government to include in the National Recovery Plan the area of support for research and development in the field of energy, namely, point V, that these challenges be placed there in a row. So I will probably have to sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate. If the rapporteur were to adopt it, it may be easier, but I will then apply. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And since none of the other applicants are present and Mr Leo Luzar is reporting, the Member will be given the floor, then Mr Skopeček. In the meantime, I'll delete the absent speakers, if they have to sign up again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the National Recovery Plan is a great chance for the Czech Republic and your words, which you used in the introduction, have illustrated the scope of the National Recovery Plan in bright colors. Let's just say that. If only a tenth of what you mentioned in your speech could be achieved, we could be among the premieres - and you like to use the term premieres - of the European Union. Unfortunately, this development of the National Recovery Plan, as we have received it as Members, does not reflect what you have said in your introductory words either in the form of tables or in the text. If you look at individual projects according to the fields that are presented, you will find that these are mostly drawer projects - I will allow this expression. These are projects that have already historically been implemented at different stages of development at ministries, and as an example of one of the oldest projects, I can mention the flood protection that occurred after the floods that hit the Czech Republic, and have not yet been implemented in the volume of billions, i.e. reincarnated these projects and appear in this National Recovery Plan. Perhaps it would be worth telling yourself what the funding as such is for, which is a loan, is definitely a loan for the future, which is declared targeted. This objective is to develop investments or to implement historical unfulfilled projects and programmes. That might be worth saying and explaining that part of the National Recovery Plan. Unfortunately, we're pressed for time. If I have also understood your words correctly, the European Union is pushing its Member States to launch national recovery plans as quickly as possible and to set out the directions for the direction of financial assistance to come up with on this National Recovery Plan. From our point of view, and now I will speak for technology, for the economy, for matters related to reconstruction and renewal, I think this plan is too focused - and I will use the term soft projects, I apologize for that. But if we look at development in education, for example, everyone would applaud and say: yes, it is an investment in the future, in the future of our children. Certainly, yes, but if you look specifically at the development of individual projects, you will find that this education is more about digitization, the Internet for schools and so on, or all those projects that since the 1990s the Czech Republic has been trying to develop in vain and are coming back, as if we could not really focus the investment on education and research and really towards those children, really into that area of education for the future. I also have a similar problem with access to the regions affected by restructuring. There is a lot of talk about the Karlovy Vary, Mostecký and Moravian-Silesian region in general thesis, but concrete projects may not appear to me there except for a really fast jump on the train of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which put some specific things there. At the same time, these regions are affected quite significantly by the impact of European policy, and those funds that are in the National Recovery Plan should also be significantly targeted there. But the concept of the funds really ends with the individual projects and there is no consistency. [[12.00 hours]] When we talk about energy, as my previous speakers have said here, it is quite a significant problem of the interlinking of individual types of investment that will be implemented from this plan into a coherent whole. If we are talking about the downturn, and we may have to prepare for it, that is, the decline in fossil fuels in energy use, we must also focus on new sources. I did not find there any projects such as the construction of new pipelines, which will certainly be necessary at least in the current replacement of coal burning. They're not there. And these are investments in the order of billions when we translate that these are line constructions that are going to be realized for maybe five or ten years. They're not there. I sought, as has been said here, nuclear energy as an integral part of the Czech energy mix. I understand that the European Union is not looking at this with very green eyes, but the Prime Minister assured us that he had succeeded in a hussarian piece in negotiating with the European Commission, and the nuclear energy to us, to the Czech Republic, from the point of view of Europe was acceptable to Europe. So I'm asking, why doesn't this project count? I understood it until the government decided to take over Dukovan's financing as an investment in the government, not ČEZ. That is why I considered it a certain deviation, and I therefore expected that the government would use these resources precisely to this end, since it is already a fully government investment. It didn't happen, and I didn't find these projects there, and I consider it a mistake. And now I'm not talking about who should implement those Dukovany, but let's talk about nuclear power and let's not forget that Temelín is ahead of us. The difference in years of survival between these two sources is not so great as to justify us to say that Temelín, it will someday be in the future, in the far future. The need for energy blocks and construction will certainly be necessary. Another thing that we are discussing at the moment is investing in restructuring the problem of brownfields that we have historically in the Republic, and unfortunately it affects my region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, but surely also surface mining in the Ústecký Region and the Karlovy Vary Region, which are also under-solved, even in the environment or in the environmental chapter, the allocation is quite significant, but the implementation, technical realization is simply lacking there. On the contrary, what I consider to be an advantage is a high-speed railroad, a transport connection. But this, in turn, results from the fact that we have been working on this for a long time and the Ministry of Transport has submitted projects that are able to exhaust these funds in the early implementation phase. And that's what I'm guessing, and unfortunately from the project, as I read it, the National Recovery Plan, it turns out that it's mainly projects that are already at some stage and at some stage of development so that they can be implemented quickly, quickly. But that, in turn, contradicts the concept given, which means the National Recovery Plan as the future of investment development. So I'm not criticizing transport structures, I'm not criticizing railway structures, that's certainly necessary, but let's try to look at it again from some perspective in the future, from the perspective of where these unique means that we, even if we don't feel that way, are going to owe us, within Europe, where they're going to go, because that should be the goal and we should set those directions. And maybe, and now I will use the heretical idea, but maybe it would be worth not going into the details, but rather setting the frameworks and allowing those who will have to implement these projects to give them projects themselves, and we would just set them frameworks. We ask that there be 30 percent there, I don't know, low-carbon energy, we ask that it be taken into account - and other and other conditions that I might be able to make up now, but I don't want to go into that detail, but set only those limits and parameters and leave the rest on the implementation steps. This doesn't come from the table we received, and I guess it's called. a big sale of ministries, when everyone gave you everything and said to themselves: we are not responsible for it, but we have it here, Minister, take care of it. I understand their policy, but here, as Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport, you should say clearly: colleagues, colleagues, ministers, this is not going to work, and it will be necessary to go back to that and revisit it and really look at the view. These are unique means, and it would be a great shame if we used it for historical projects, which may not even be up to date today, or even now. they are already in some historical context behind the zenith, focusing on the future. [[You didn't concentrate?]] And once again, I'm focusing on the basics that are the most drawn there under the great concept of digitalization. It's a big password, but it's a development, I'm sorry about the expression, it's-- well, I'm not gonna comment. Everyone has a chance to read it and see where it's going. And when we're talking that there were 14 billion of the European Union to cover the white sites of the Internet in the Czech Republic that we didn't use because it wasn't interested, the project suddenly reappears there, it goes there again. In a slightly different form, but it is actually exactly the same - the extension of the Internet to the Czech Republic and other projects. Let's just try to go back to that again without any political aversions, without any political attempts to find a way to properly spend these funds on behalf of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u30	Have a nice noon. The Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day. And now Mr. Jan Skopeček has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor. I have no desire to prolong the debate, but let me also comment on the National Recovery Plan in a slightly different way than... [[A silence for discussion at the newsstand table.]] Thank you, it's a little disturbing here at the speaker's desk. Thank you very much. So I want to look at the recovery plan in a slightly different way than my previous speakers, who in most cases dealt with how the expected money package is divided, and someone likes it more, someone less, because it suits someone in terms of his professions, interest groups, and I don't know what, so it suits him the distribution of money less, someone more. In my opinion, however, to the detriment of this, no one has considered whether this form of money distribution, whether this form of money redistribution plan, which the European Union will still have to borrow, can really lead to something that we will call restoring the European economy and restoring the economies of the Member States after the corona crisis. I am not convinced of this, for many reasons. One of the main reasons is that the means that will be redistributed under the National Recovery Plan are the means that the European Commission will first have to borrow. So we are talking about money and projects that we will finance on debt. If something has hindered the European Union economically in recent years, if something has been troubling it, it has been the pre-debtability of the Member States, in some cases leading to bankruptcy and the need for other Member States, virtually. their taxpayers, participate in other people's debts. I really believe that debt cannot be worked out for prosperity, and I think history has shown it several times, and the National Recovery Plan has the same ambition. Only the form is changing. Instead of the debts of national states, which investors are often no longer willing to borrow for normal interest, the European Commission is now taking a debt or loan, a loan for which individual national states will be liable. Indeed, this principle, when we want to ensure prosperity on debt, has never worked and, in my view, will not work today. [[12.10 hours]] Likewise, the areas to be financed by the National Recovery Plan, and let us remember that it is primarily money directed towards transformation, to the ecological New Deal, to the change in energy, to the far-reaching change in energy, in the automotive industry, all the environmental projects and ideologies that we have discussed here in the context of the European Union and its policies in the past, are materialised in this recovery plan. And once again, I'm not sure the decline in the traditional car industry, if leaving traditional energy sources can bring economic growth. I believe that this will rather complicate the situation especially for industrialised countries. And if it is one of the most industrialized countries within the EU, it is the Czech Republic. And all those steps, whether in the green agenda or in others, are directed against the interests of industrialized countries. So I'm not really sure if this form and this kind of distribution of money can contribute to something like a recovery plan. The word is confusing as well. I am convinced that the recovery or rebooting of the economy after the pandemic, I am talking about the conditions of the Czech Republic, cannot be ensured through subsidies. In general, I believe that wealth, economic growth is created by work, by the entrepreneurship of people and companies, by the fact that entrepreneurs and companies are willing to take risks, are willing and able to bring innovation. This is the real engine of economic growth and that is what we should bet on after the pandemic wears off and we will need to restart the Czech economy. I do not think that the Czech economy, after the pandemic, will save any subsidy from anyone, whether from the EU or from anyone else. I believe that the Czech Republic will only be saved after the pandemic by the Czech Government performing its homework. Undoubtedly, those homework tasks must include saving especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are the most vulnerable group to which coronavirus restrictions fall most. And I fear very much that hundreds and thousands of businessmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, after the government has abolished the latest corona-based restrictions, will simply not open their businesses, businesses and businesses, because they will not survive that time. That'll be the cornerstone of whether or not we can reboot our economy after the pandemic. Not if we get so many billions more or so many billions less from the EU for projects in the Czech Republic. Another domestic task, which will also not solve the EU or any national plan, is to heal public finances, which, in the context of the coronavirus crisis, have come into numbers that we all need to know are dramatic, that they are tragic, that they are terrifying and that they are not good for the Czech Republic. Let me just remind you that, in fact, the Supreme Audit Office has also said that only a small part of the increase in these expenditures in the last year is related to the pandemia of coronavirus and that the larger half is to blame for something completely different, I would call the government's inability to manage within the reasonable economic possibilities and conditions that they have in the Czech Republic. We will certainly ensure the restoration of the Czech economy and reboot after the pandemic by simplifying the tax environment for citizens and companies in the Czech Republic, which is among the most complex in international comparison. This is again a homework that will not solve any subsidies that will not solve the EU, which must be solved by the government of the Czech Republic. The koronavirový crisis has also shown a number of dysfunctional, rigid, slow institutions on the part of the state. Once again, a huge task: when we have had to experience the pandemic of coronavirus, it is an opportunity to move these slow, fat, non-working institutions. This is once again the government's homework, not the EU's. I think that the necessary bureaucracy, the huge number of officials that the current government has taken into the public service over the past years and who are being paid for from public money, is also not helping the economic growth of the Czech Republic, but rather annoying active and enterprising people with their lives. This, too, should be the task of the future government to do something about the rampant bureaucracy and the rampant regulation. I was going to suggest that if the Czech economy succeeds after the pandemic went away, it doesn't matter to anyone but us. It is not about any European programme, it is not about any European subsidies. It depends on whether the government of the Czech Republic will be able to enforce, write, enforce and enforce real reforms, which will mean that the Czech economy will become more competitive, that the business environment in the Czech Republic will improve, and that the public sector will get together, whether public finances, i.e. how they manage, or how they manage their size, i.e. the removal of unnecessary bureaucrats and unnecessary bureaucracy. However, I am a pragmatic politician. And at a time when a certain amount of money is on the table - although I am unhappy with the fact that the European Commission is borrowing it and we will guarantee it - it is, of course, the task of using the money as efficiently as possible, rationally as possible, and in this sense I certainly want to stand up for all the hard infrastructure projects that, in my view, the State would have to make as much of national resources as possible from the National Recovery Plan, whatever water resources it is, whatever infrastructure it is, which, after all, can help the business sector to work better. I think we've had experience with soft projects in the previous programming periods, and we've all seen that most of it's spent money for nothing. Spend money that will not help the Czech Republic to develop it. So if I were to hoist for something, I'm sure it's for as much of this money as possible to aim for the construction and construction of infrastructure rather than unfair subsidies to certain business groups at the expense of other entrepreneurs or any other soft projects that have also proved to be wasted money in the past. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u32	So now I'm going to look around and see if he has... Yes, Mr Profant. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear public, I would like to talk about the area of digitization, primarily the chapter or chapter, or whatever it is, 1.1 and 1.2. The digitalisation area is completely unambient in the National Recovery Plan. It only deals with funding current de factomandatory projects, but it does not bring any new value through a real vision that would lead to a real investment. An investment that will do us some good in the future. This is the result of laziness and resortism. For example, every system that communicates with a citizen needs NIA integration, central identities. And we compete separately. Why don't we invest small money in one central solution available to all? And the exact same situation is, for example, connected to basic registers or eGON Service Bus. Another huge rift is that we invest massively in the purchase of iron and technology, but there are no investments in operators anywhere. So we're going to buy hardware and very expensive technology, but we're not going to have anyone who can control it again. So the goal of the purchase will not be met. Expensive hardware or expensive technology is completely useless. They're no different from the cheap ones if we don't have experts who can control them. Without high-quality IT experts, there is a risk that funds will not be spent effectively. There will be situations where suppliers write their own procurement documents on a custom basis, thereby preventing fair competition, which is an effect known as vendor lock-in. So I'm afraid in this chapter, as it's copied from older plans, not written, we're just heading to other e-shops on highway signs. The exact same situation will occur with the part that is on the cyber security of hospitals. There's huge money going, but I'm very worried it'll end up buying different firewalls and so on, and then you'll trip over them in the basement without being involved. That really happened in some institutions because there was just no one there who could control them or because they weren't fit in the infrastructure and they just bought them. And if we don't really stop this, the recovery plan will be useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u34	I will now look around to see if anyone is still interested in speaking in the general debate. Yes, it's Secretary Dostálová with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u35	Dear colleague, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I got a motion for a resolution on the table. And, of course, I can't stop anyone. I just really want to point out some aspects of the National Recovery Plan here, which maybe in the context of all the ideas you've presented here, could fit in. It must be noted that the National Recovery Plan is one of the programmes that the Czech Republic will have at its disposal. Together we will have roughly less than a trillion crowns, roughly 960 billion crowns. A lot of the things you've named here, whether it's public green traffic and so on, will be in the Integrated Regional Operational Programme as well as in the Transport Operational Programme. I just want to stress that the National Recovery Plan is not all-savable. There are, of course, cohesion funds, the Modernization Fund, the Fair Transformation Fund and many others. If I look at the resolution as I have before me, and immediately that point one, where it recommends to the government a delay - a delay in the deadline for the submission of the National Recovery Plan. I beg you all not to take these steps. The National Recovery Plan, 70 percent of all resources must be committed, that is, under contract, by the end of 2022. Any delay is in favour of the Czech Republic. Indeed, this is a large amount of money, and our goal must be to commit those good projects as soon as possible. The whole allocation must be committed by the end of 2023. The last payment may take place in 2026. So there's really little time, and both point one and point two and point three are really points that delay all these steps. At point two, a classic inter-resortionary reminder procedure takes place. Surely all partners will be able to comment on this, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, of course, has to deal with the comments. It also needs to be said that point four here - reminding the components of the National Recovery Plan in the area of digitization or climate. The Commission's national recovery plan requires 20 per cent of digitalisation. They're filling it up at 25 percent. The climate has a duty of 37 percent. They're filling it up at 41 percent. So the debate about the failure of the National Recovery Plan to do so may not really be appropriate. As regards calling on the government to give as much money as possible to small and medium-sized enterprises, I would like to recommend that you all download the Partnership Agreement, which is also in eKLEP. The Partnership Agreement has Annex 3, where there is a beautiful signpost, where you will see a separate business, eGovernment, just all these things from which all the funds can be financed. So small and medium-sized enterprises, not only the National Recovery Plan, but, for example, the Technology and Competitiveness Operational Programme. As regards recommendations for surveys. Each contracting authority shall have an obligation to act under the Public Procurement Act. The evaluation of applications, to make it transparent, is, of course, all of this, because, of course, the transparent evaluation procedure is always given as an obligation to the managing authority. So I just wanted to draw attention to this so that we don't really try to take steps with these resolutions that would lead us to delay it on the Czech side and put ourselves at risk of not spending the money in the finals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u36	Now, with the factual remark of Mr František Kopřiva, so far the last application for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u37	I'll just keep it short. I've got to turn on the secretary a little bit. She says here that perhaps as I want to harm the interests of the Czech Republic, when I want them to be able to deal with comments properly. I'll just point out that we've been waiting six months for this to happen before you put it in the interreort. Yeah, in the meantime, the components came in different ways apart, and then, like, a week later, they came in a whole new form. But it never seemed complete to us, so it was hard to express itself in any way. So here I might repeat the question, who did the government consult? And now that we are proposing a delay - I will propose, in the end, by five weeks, that many Member States will probably choose a similar procedure. So I don't understand why, in contrast to the six months we've been waiting for this, you're telling me that we don't have a month to read it properly now, the comprehensive document, and to discuss it again here in the House. This seems a little disparate to me, given that if you claim that it is in the Czech interest to hand it over as soon as possible, you could have submitted it to us as a government before Christmas, as you claimed at the meeting. It is in the minutes of the Committee on European Affairs. So you should have submitted it in December and it could have already been submitted to the European Commission. But you put it in that inter-reort a week ago. So it would be appropriate that there should finally be time to settle further comments and discuss one more time in the House. That's all for me. I will read the resolution in full in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u38	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. [[This is Mrs Mračková.]] But you pulled it back, Madame. [[Mrs Mračková: I am normal.]] Normal. So, to Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual point, then Mrs Mračková's normal application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Kopřiva. I fully agree with what he said here and with what is being presented. Madam Secretary, we know very well about limiting time to draw funds. But I really find it unacceptable for you to say and insist on speeding up in the order of weeks when we didn't get... it's April, it's half April, we got a complete semi-finished product at the last meeting. The complete semi-finished product, where the chapters were missing, was the whole parts unfinished. We didn't get the material this time either. There are still mistakes there today. And we got it last night. This in itself is indeed a complete manifestation of a bad will to cooperate with the House. I perceive the rate of drawdown, but no less important is the quality of the material and sufficiently discussed both at the expert and at the political level. So please be generous with our proposals, because I think and believe that they have their reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u40	Now in the general debate, Mrs Mračková. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u41	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on my previous speakers, on Mrs Langšádlová and on Mr Kopřiv, particularly in relation to the Minister and on her contribution. Madam Secretary didn't press anybody here. The Minister has merely stated the fact that it is and that everyone should be aware of, that 70 per cent of the allocated amount must already be committed in 2022 under the National Recovery Plan. If that does not happen, the Czech Republic may lose the funds. So she just pointed it out. And the point is that when you really read the motions for resolutions that are being tabled here, there may be a threat to the funds so that the Czech Republic can draw them in the framework of the National Recovery Plan. We all know, and I believe that even Mr Kopřiva's fellow Member, through Mr President, knows that the process has clear rules, and that if the National Recovery Plan is now in interdepartmental commentary proceedings, then everyone who can comment on it will comment on it. Comments are made on such a reminder procedure, and other comments are made. And all comments have to be dealt with in the interdepartmental commentary procedure. This means that anyone who writes his comment will deal with this and deal with it. And that's either by changing it, by accepting the reminder, or by agreeing with the actor in some way, or by saying why, eventually, the government. Because there's always material on the government where you see what comments haven't been settled for what reason. [[12.30 hours]] So I think that your speech is certainly also to the Minister, and I think that the Minister for Regional Development is an important person who should comment on the National Recovery Plan. And I think her comments, which she said here, that it was important to put them here. I am at this moment the first term of office in the Chamber of Deputies and I quite... No, it doesn't, but we're here to approve these accompanying resolutions and some laws. And I have to say, some of these resolutions, if they don't deal with it in the future, to say if such a resolution is to be approved here at all. Because, as a result, it recommends that surveys and preliminary market consultations should be used by contracting authorities in drawing up funds, thereby achieving healthy competition for the contract. - I'm sorry, but we have a public procurement law! We've got the Competition Authority! So some of these resolutions, I'm sorry, but I think that when they're here, they're "needed" or "remarked" resolutions... I think that if it reminds us that every component of the National Recovery Plan must be in line with climate and digital objectives, then the European Commission has told us how it must be. And we must do it in accordance with the European Commission's words. So I would be, I think that there should certainly be some reflection on these resolutions, and I think that, even in the future, the Chamber of Deputies should be dealing with how to draw up these accompanying resolutions, because I am also convinced that some of these resolutions are being adopted here, and the question is whether they are being implemented to some extent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u42	I will now look around to see if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I ask the plaintiff if there is an interest in the final word. You're not interested, Mr. Kopřiva? Are you interested in the final word? Then you are still in a detailed debate. So the final word, please. And the minister is interested? You're not interested. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u43	Thank you for the floor. I'll just keep it short. I was surprised by the Vice Prime Minister because I thought he'd try to answer some more questions. Okay, well, I'm gonna send them back by interception. As for the delay, I've already mentioned it here - we've been waiting six weeks, so if there's a problem like the order of the weeks now that it's going to happen the same way with a lot of other Member States, that's the question. But I understand that maybe it would be worth completely shutting down the House so we wouldn't accept anything here anymore, because maybe it's just annoying. But that's just sideways. I thank the Vice Prime Minister, therefore, that he has presented the basic basis in the introductory words. And so we will consider, with the colleagues we have called this extraordinary meeting, that perhaps we will consider calling another emergency meeting, precisely in order to avoid delays. At the same time, so that this huge package of 190 billion crowns, which must be invested in a really reasonable way, so that we can discuss this again in the House. So maybe after the agreement, we can call an emergency meeting so we don't wait for another plenary week. Well, thank you, that will be all for me and I will read the resolution in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u44	So we will proceed to the debate in detail, Mr. Ambassador, you can stay at the counter. And the first Mr. František Kopřiva to sign up for the floor. And Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u45	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read the resolution, where we propose nine points together with colleagues with whom we have called this meeting, i.e. for the Pirates' Clubs, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and parts of the Social Democracy Club. And then I take the proposal that Mr Zahradník from the ODS has read here in the general debate, which I will put there in such a way that it fits the resolution somehow. I am now reading the text of the resolution on the National Recovery Plan: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends the Government to request a delay in submitting the National Recovery Plan to the European Commission for five weeks in order to prepare its comments; 2. Calls on the Government to address the comments made by Parliament, the non-governmental and private sector, the authorities and other stakeholders concerned; 3. Calls on the Government to present the final form of the National Recovery Plan to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion after the settlement of the notice procedure; 4. Recalls that each component of the National Recovery Plan must comply with the EU's climate and digital objectives and that the social dimension of investment must also be taken into account; 5. Calls on the Government to target more resources in small and medium-sized enterprises and in promising sectors; 6. Calls on the Government to include in the National Recovery Plan the area of support for research and development in the field of energy; 7. Recommends that market surveys and preliminary market consultations should be used by contracting authorities when drawing up funds and thus achieving sound competition for the contract in question; 8. Calls for the evaluation of aid applications to be conducted in a transparent and predictable manner and for the State to communicate with applicants; 9. Notes that it is not appropriate to cover recurring andmandatory expenditures from the recovery fund. The National Recovery Plan should also specify the expected sustainability of the projects after the allocation has been exhausted; 10. Calls on the Government to establish a coordination platform for all available grant options and financial instruments so as not to duplicate and so-called. cannibalisation of individual programmes and improved clarity of options for applicants. Thank you. And if I may still be able to make a suggestion that there would be a separate vote on each point, because I have noticed this suggestion from the diaper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u46	Now, for a detailed debate, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. I don't have another application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u47	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen. A simple motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic takes note of the unfinished National Recovery Plan. - We know it's unfinished because it's 20. 4. A reminder procedure is underway. - Two. It calls for a revision of the National Recovery Plan, including the National Reform Plan, as part of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, in order to remedy the major shortcomings. 3. It asks the Government to submit a seven-year plan for stabilization of public finances involving the National Recovery Plan and the National Reform Plan.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u48	Mr. Kubíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u49	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I need to take 15 minutes on behalf of the ANO MP to study all the proposals, so I'm asking for a 15-minute recess for the ANO club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u50	Yes. So I'll meet you at 12.53. I'm calling a break until 12.53.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u51	We have 12.53 hours. The President of the SPD Radim Fiala reported with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, co-workers, because this is a very complex material and essentially the debt of the Czech Republic to future generations, we would still need to talk about the declarations in the club. It's not entirely clear and unambiguous. I'm asking for at least another five minutes, but as I'm looking around here, I think it's worth two minutes - then it won't make sense for us to meet. But if you want, I need five minutes, which means -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u53	Well, I'll do the math, Prime Minister, so break till 12.58. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Thank you. [[The hearing was suspended from 12.53 to 12.58 hours.]] We have 12.58. The final words were in order. There's an application for check-out first, so I'm gonna check you out. Log in with your voting cards. The vice-chairman of the club wants to get off - here you go. So, yes, Club Vice-President for Club YES, Mr. Roman Kubíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u54	Hello, Mr President, thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, on behalf of two clubs, YES and KSČM, for an extension of the time to vote until this item is negotiated after one hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u55	So that's what... Let's keep going. We will therefore now vote on the motions for resolutions. I will ask Mr František Kopřiva to introduce us to the resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to thank the Yes Club, Mr Vice-President, for making this motion for action. I think it'll be nicer for everyone if we take it out tonight. I was reading the resolution as proposed by my colleagues for the Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, plus I took the proposal from my colleague Zahradník from ODS. And then the resolution was proposed by President Filip. And there was a suggestion that we would vote on all points in particular. I would therefore begin now with that first resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u57	Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u58	Mr President, it is necessary to look into the Rules of Procedure Act because we did not count on the SPD to continue after 13:00. We were telling everyone in advance that we wouldn't be in favour of extending the negotiation period after 13:00, because we already have a program. It's not because we want to block something. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] So the question is... We really have a program. And the question is, will there be a vote or won't there be a vote? I just want to say that this is not the agreement of all the MPs in this House. And if there's no consensus, then I think we should probably decide by voting on whether or not we're going to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u59	Now... [[The President shall consult with the President of the House of Vondráček.]] That's what I'm talking about right now. Here and within the House's leadership, it's customary for everyone to agree to move on in this case, because it's not a vote after 19 or 21 o'clock. And if everyone makes a deal, it's gonna keep going. If everyone doesn't agree, it's a break. It's a habit so far. So now there are some suggestions that are again contrary to what was customary. It's like here with the breaks last time. So now we either tell each other that these customs are canceled, or... Because that's not in the Rules of Procedure. It's after 7:00 p.m., after 9:00 p.m. There was a statement from the President of the Radim Fiala Parliamentary Club, quite clear. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I don't want to do any of that. Well, I'd like to do it as standard practice as it is, so I'd like to call it a break. But I will give room, because I am a Democrat of course, so I will give space to Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. [[blast of laughter in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u60	Thank you. Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Indeed, it is customary today, or every day, when it is normally a break at 13:00, so at 13:00 close the hearing, to declare a lunch break. It is also customary that if there is a general agreement to continue, then it can continue. I understand that the match isn't at this point. So it's entirely up to you whether you maintain this habit or whether we throw ourselves into any procedural battles. But it's your authority as president at the moment. So do as you please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-15-ps2017-093-02-000-000.u61	So I'm gonna put out a lunch break, and I'll see you here at 2:30 p.m. at the interpelee. Enjoy your meal.
