ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 111th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. Now I have technical information for you. At this point, we're trying to run a voting device. You can see on the monitor that there's a TEST 2 sign. So I can't even unsubscribe all of you to apply. Let's take a break by 9:10. Let's hope we can get this thing working by then. It's some kind of technical glitch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u2	It's 9:10 p.m. We'll continue the adjourned meeting. Technically, it's been solved. There will be minor shortcomings, you will not see the show, the following points, you will always see only a specific point under discussion. There's always work to be done to get rid of these problems. So I'm signing you off now, and I'm asking you to sign up and present yourself, or tell me who votes with the replacement card. With a replacement card number 11, Mr Sklenák votes, with a replacement card number 21 I vote, Radek Vondráček. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out the draft agenda of the 111th meeting on 24 June this year, the invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. With the replacement card number 15, Mrs Malá will vote. I ask you all to remain calm and please take your seats in the hall, because before we proceed to identify the verifiers of this meeting, on the basis of a proposal from representatives of some clubs, I propose that we now honor the silence of the victims of the tornado in Moravia for a minute. Therefore, I would ask for a dignified atmosphere. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. [[The MPs have risen, a minute's silence.]] Thank you all. We will now proceed to the designation of two meeting verifiers. The proposal is for us to designate Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Petr Dolínek. I'm asking if there's another suggestion? I don't see anyone. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, registered 146, for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated members of Stanislav Berkovec and Petr Dolínek as the verifiers of the 111th meeting. Ivan Adamec, working reasons, Lukáš Bartoň, health reasons, Ivan Bartoš within 13 hours, working reasons, Josef Bělica, working reasons, Petr Bendl, working reasons, Stanislav Blaha, working reasons, Jiří Bláha within 15 hours, working reasons, Andrea Brzobohatá by 14.30, health reasons, Alexander Černý, health reasons, Stanislav Grospič, health reasons, Pavel Juříček, foreign travel, David Kasal by 10 hours, working reasons, Jiří Kobza, family reasons, Lenka Kozlová, health reasons, Jana Krutáková, no reason for giving up, Vojtěch Munzar from the morning meeting, working reasons, Zdeněk Podal, family reasons, Věra Procházková, working reasons, Antonín Staněk within 12 hours, health reasons, Pavel Staněk, family reasons, Zbyněk Stanjura, working reasons, Helena Válková, working Zlesák, Radek. I also received an additional apology from Mr Stanislav Juránek today between 9th and 11th for reasons of work. The Prime Minister cancels his apology, is present, Jan Hamáček apologizes within 11 hours, working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek, working reasons, Lubomír Metnar, working reasons, Robert Plaga, working reasons, Miroslav Toman, working reasons. That's all from the apology at the moment. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 June, by my decision number 117 on the basis of the Government's proposal, I extended the state of legislative emergency. I would remind you that we already have a proposal on the proposal that was tabled in connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, point 1, House press 1242, on special voting arrangements in the elections, and I would remind you that this press was interrupted at the 104th meeting before the third reading. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that a further House press approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is a Government Bill amending Act No. 569/2020 Coll., on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccine for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, print 1255, shortened behaviour. By decision 118, I decided to discuss this government proposal in a short hearing and ordered the House press of 1255 to the Health Committee and set it an unbreakable deadline for the submission of the resolution to date within 14 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 99 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 4 we are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency lasts. I am opening up a debate on this. I'm asking if anyone's interested in a performance? If no one signs up for the debate, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of the state of legislative emergency'. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, we are logged in at the moment 151, for 85, against 52. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the proposal has been approved. And now we will proceed to the draft of the 111th meeting. On Friday, July 2, the Senate returned to the Chamber of Deputies a draft building law, press 1008/12, rejected by the Senate, a bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law, a press 1009/9, rejected by the Senate, a bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, press 1091/5, returned by the senát. Since it was not a grémium, it was not possible to prepare a Gremium proposal, so here at this point in accordance with § 97 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that: The Chamber of Deputies has decided to include these proposals in the 111st meeting in the block of laws - the Senate, with their legal deadline ending on Tuesday 13 July. Since the reconstruction of our Chamber of Deputies will take place from 17 July to 16 August, I propose to include a new item on the 111th agenda in the report, and this will be the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies laying down more detailed rules for the Chamber of Deputies in the Chamber of Deputies J 205 in House Street 1/1, Prague 1, House Document 8730. There is no way I want to call for anything, but we must be prepared with regard to the reconstruction of any emergency meeting, I hope that it will not take long and we will only include the item, we will agree on a solid classification within the parliamentary clubs. Since we do not have a proposal from political grémia, it is therefore up to individual Members to propose their points. The first was written in writing by President Rakušan with priority rights, the second was declared with priority rights by President Faltýnek. [[A deal off the mic.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u3	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. My proposal concerns press 799, energy law. I would like to emphasise here that, as an opposition Member, I am coming up with a government proposal for an energy law. As STAN, we prepared our own proposal in 2019. That was the negative opinion of the government. The government has come up with a proposal where we have also agreed on the Committees and we have reached some final proposal that should have no major problem with support across the parties in the Chamber of Deputies. I really don't understand why this point hasn't been fixed from the Gremium. I really believe that we are at the end of the parliamentary term. Around us is an ongoing election campaign and there are few points where we would be able to find a consensus and an energy law such a point from my point of view in any case and clearly is. We can help people who have become victims of energy bastards. I don't know if you registered, but at the time of the covid, it was escalated to a higher level. For example, people were offered a change of operator, provider, energy services, with free receipt of five respirators in the same quality, small letters and things like that. We have an amendment which also envisages that mayors and mayors across the Republic will be able, by order of the municipality, to prohibit the door-to-door sale of energy on the territory of their city, their own municipalities. I really think this is about primary helping people, the most needed, the most threatened. The most common victims of energy scumbags are older people, and these practices need to be finally confronted and defended. That is why, Mr President, I come up with a proposal in three variants: that this item be placed as the first item in the third reading block today, the second option: to include it firmly today at 12 o'clock and the third option and the last: firm at Friday at 12.30. That's the first thing. Second issue: I would like to call on the government to explain the confusion that appears around helping people in South Moravia without including a point. Please explain to us how it will be with gifts, explain to us how it will be with insurance policies, explain to us whether we will punish people who were responsible, pay insurance premiums, and now they should be punished precisely by the fact that they have been responsible for years. Let us, of course, support all those whom tragedy has touched, but let us certainly not punish those who are responsible for their life and property in the long term. On the contrary, we should also help them at this point. I know there's probably a proposal for a specific point here. I consider it unnecessary. I would take it for granted that the government itself should speak up and explain the alleged official shocks referred to by Minister Dostálová and tell us what the government has agreed on and how it will finally help people in South Moravia after 12 days of tragedy. The last thing that has anything to do with it. I have heard from President Vondráček that Mrs Jana Krutáková is excused for no reason. Jana Krutáková lives in Moravská Nová Ves, she will have a roof after 12 days and is looking forward to meeting you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. After an explanation with Vice-President Okamura. he submitted a written application at 7.45 hours and we explained that he was on the program. In that case, the written application has priority, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, I have two suggestions on the agenda. First of all, the SPD has repeatedly called for the Pandemic emergency to be lifted. Therefore, on behalf of the SPD, I propose that we include the abolition of the pandemic emergency on the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In the long term, we reject the general government measures, which should also apply during holidays and holidays. We always say that it is necessary to aim for the protection of vulnerable groups. We are merely reminding that we, as the only MP, voted against the adoption of the so-called pandemic law, and it turned out that we were right. During the period from 14 April to the end of June, the Supreme Administrative Court took advantage of its powers and stated the legality of the emergency measure of the Ministry of Health 24 times in total. Just by chance, it was, for example, the lawlessness of closing restaurants, the lawlessness of closing parent, primary and secondary schools, the lawlessness of closing service facilities, the unjustified ban on lifts and cable cars or the unjustified testing of the self-employed. Therefore, we also refuse to have a pandemic emergency in the Czech Republic that needs to be abolished. An example of this can be the UK, which, despite growing numbers due to delta mutation, has eliminated all measures since 19 July and has put pandemics at the same level as the common flu. From this date, wearing duvets and respirators in the UK is to be a voluntary decision of individuals only. We believe there's a way through here. Let's fight the virus, not the people. If this point passes, I propose that we vote on the resolution under the SPD: 'The Chamber of Deputies is abolishing the pandemic emergency'. It's simple. Therefore, I propose to include a new item called Cancellation of the pandemic emergency, either as the first point today or alternatively if it did not pass, today after the fixed points, or the third option tomorrow at 11 o'clock. So it's three suggestions. As the second item in the Chamber of Deputies meeting, I propose a point... Well, I'll comment on the pandemic emergency. At the same time, the SPD also rejects the Minister of Health Vojtěch's efforts to force citizens to vaccination. The efforts of the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for the ANO movement are ongoing to discriminate against non-vaccine citizens and force vaccinations. We completely reject this procedure. It must be a voluntary decision by every citizen, and pressure is completely unacceptable. The introduction of the obligation to check the infectivity of guests by the restaurant staff is also completely outside the legal framework. In fact, this continues with the government's practice of circumventing laws and introducing covid totalitarianism. For the SPD, we are clearly saying that whoever wants to get vaccinated, and for those citizens who want to be vaccinated, the government must ensure a rapid selection of vaccinations with a safe vaccine. On the other hand, who does not want to be forced or discriminated against. That's a long-term SPD position. At the same time, the SPD also rejects the introduction of a printed file of passports that restrict the rights and freedoms of our citizens. The government is also trying to include this point at this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the SPD will do everything possible to ensure that, as we have done so far, this proposal does not pass. Now I propose a second point, which is that we firmly include the third reading of the law from the SPD pen on the termination of the abuse of doses by the inadaptable, so-called law on material distress. This law of ours has been here for a long time at the third reading and we still cannot get to the final vote, and as we know, we already have one of the last options for the elections to vote for this law to end the widespread abuse of benefits that are inadaptable. If this bill of ours, which was subsequently co-operated by members of other parties, would pass, then the circus will bring half a billion crowns in the state register, and we need them now. We need to regroup half a billion crowns from inadaptable to decent and proper citizens, so I hope you can accommodate us. I would like to see this point, it is the termination of the abuse of doses inadaptable, the law on material distress, point 331, print 652, the third reading took place either this Friday as the first point, or next week on Wednesday as the first point. [[9.30 hours]] Finally, I would like to draw your attention, and I must say that this is really crazy, and I want to talk about the referendum law. Here, in 2017, political parties, which seem to be under the vision that the SPD has increasing preferences, and in 2017, we got a double-digit result, added to the political agenda that they would also promote referendums. It was a YES movement, it was a CSSD, it's a KSČM and they're Pirates and, of course, the SPD. The SPD has passed the referendum law here, it's been over three years, and now we have just before the elections, and it looks like the House will not pass the referendum law again, because the other parties are blocking it here. I take it when it's ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN - they just fair and squarely admitted that they don't want a referendum, they don't want a referendum against any citizens' decisions, so that even citizens can decide in a referendum, so that's a fair statement. That's why they're blocking it, they're refusing it. But what's unfair is when there are four political parties, it's the movement YES, the ČSSD, the KSČM and the Pirates, who had it in the program, and they're basically blocking and delaying it so that no referendum law passes. I suspect that we are already one of the last two countries in Europe that does not have a referendum law, whether those parameters are such or poppy. And I have to say, it's a pretty big scam for voters, when you promised them that, part of the voters must have voted for you for that, and finally, the SPD here, as always, remained alone in promoting a direct democracy. And I have to say that we still have the last time for this, there will be a meeting next week, then it won't be until September, or in the meantime it'll be something special, so we can release the referendum law into the Senate. So I was gonna ask you to do it. And, of course, under the SPD, I say that in the next parliamentary term, we will fight to promote democracy here in the Czech Republic and to have a referendum law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. I have several other applications with priority rights from the place. Mr. Faltýnek was the first to report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u7	Good morning, colleagues, Mr President. It's a shame there wasn't a grémium. I know that technically wasn't possible, we had two holiday days. But as I listen to the debate and the proposals for changing the agenda, everything is actually agreed and I think my proposal will also take these matters into account. First, I would like to ask and follow up actually with the President, who informed about the law in a legislative emergency from the Ministry of Health workshop. This is a printing of 1255 on the distribution of medicinal products, if it could be classified after printing 1242, which is the choice from the car to make it a legislative emergency. We have the press 1242 as the first point of the afternoon, but give it to him - even if he didn't stay the first point of the afternoon, so that it would go together. I assume, Mr President, that my proposal is understandable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u8	Yes, voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I would also respond with my proposal to my colleague, Rakušan, after the debate today at our club and with Minister Havlíček, so that we can place them firmly on Wednesday 14. 7. block of Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček in the following order - four third readings: to start Wednesday morning 14. 7th paragraph 336, print 870, renewable sources, as the second point of point 335, which was proposed by my colleague Rakušan, print 799, energy law, as point 3 of point 338, print 912, on railways, and as point 4 of point 343, print 1046, on conditions of operation on roads. I just add that Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček is on service 8 and 9 this week. 7. outside the Czech Republic, when he represents the President of the Republic. Furthermore, allow me to propose a second reading of the bills on Wednesday 14. 7. from 14.30, i.e. after the block of third readings, namely item 6, print 1143, parliamentary proposal on social services, item 7, print 1144, parliamentary proposal on social services related, also item 8, print 961, from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, child care in the children's group, working term crèche, then item 26, print 993 of the Ministry of Finance, development of the capital market, and then item 29, print 1148 of the Ministry of Agriculture, veterinary law. So please, so much for my proposals, which partly contain what has already been said here. As for the proposal by Tomio Okamura, the third reading of the press is 652, so today we have within one hour and Friday into two spaces, and I believe that this press will also be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Jurečka, President Kováčik will be prepared. Then Vice-President Pikal will be, then President Michálek will be, then I'd like to volunteer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, fellow Members, colleagues, good morning to you. First of all, I have a little point to make. I think the grémium might as well have run this morning, at 7 o'clock. It's a shame it didn't happen, but we'll sort it out during the vote. But here I would like to propose a new item on the House's agenda and to place it firmly as the first item on today's agenda, and that point is the Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on aid granted to affected entities by the tornado, households, municipalities and companies in the South Moravia region. I would like to make it clear here what kind of help it will be that, even after this morning's government meeting, the competent minister or minister here will present the exact wording of the form of assistance so that there are no conjectures as to who meant it, how who commissioned it and how who wrote it, because today we are hearing information about the fact that the officials of the Ministry of Regional Development...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u12	Mr. Ambassador, it's perfectly quiet in the room. I don't see any noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I would like these things to be clearly named here, because learning from the media and based on how people respond on social networks, how the government changes the form and method of help, is simply undignified about what happened in the Czech Republic 12 days ago. If the secretary here says it was meant well, but the officials have written it wrong, then I don't understand when the officials here are already publicly and publicly defending themselves. [[9.40 hours]] And here I'm going to quote one of the officials who gave a statement to the media: "The government's bases were being prepared according to a political assignment. The Minister's instructions were: only those who did not have insurance or cover the damage and also those who did not use money from the donations will receive support," he told the server etc. I certainly don't think it's possible to blame officials here. The Minister, a member of the government, is responsible for the materials given at the government's meeting, and it is a surprise to me that none of the other members of the government has read such an important part of the material. I would like to make it clear that the help to affected households in the Czech Republic after the tornado will be aid, from which neither the donations will be deducted, but neither the insurance benefits, because for the 2 million crowns that the government has decided to give, there is so much that cannot be solved. But I would personally like to appeal to the government last week, and I am doing so now from this place, if the help of the government of the Czech Republic, aid from the state budget, from the budget of all citizens, were increased from CZK 2 million to CZK 3 million. Because when you talk to these people and you know those stories, not every person of your age can solve his situation when he's lost a roof over his head, by getting 2 million crowns and taking some low-interest loan for 30 years when he's older, and the chances of being able to repay such a loan aren't entirely real. So I'd like the government to reevaluate the parameters of the aid. And when it is mentioned here in plenary that it is resolved, I would like to quote here exactly the text that the government has approved today - whether only the donations from the collection that citizens have been able to donate have been resolved, or the matter of insurance transactions has also been resolved. I would very much like this to be made clear here and also to be the information of the government, what help will go to affected entrepreneurs, businessmen, businesses in the area, because the problem is not only for households, but also for small businessmen who had their shops there, pubs, farmers, winemakers. To address these groups, too, the form of aid that the government is preparing. So I'll be happy to put this item on the agenda as the first item in today's negotiations. If a member of the government comes out here, I think that point can happen very quickly. I think it is important that there is a clear calming down of citizens, mayors, those people in the affected region, what help they can expect from the government, not what they read in different articles, in different tweets and retweets about how they meant it and how they wrote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u14	Thank you. Another priority right, President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, I think that here, in connection with what the previous speaker said, there must be a great thank you to all those who, with such a huge degree of solidarity, have responded to the disaster that our fellow citizens in the designated municipalities in South Moravia have suffered. Colleague Krutáková, hat down in front of her, with which effort she and her fellow citizens conquered the misfortune. It's not the only one, it's hundreds and thousands of people who needed urgent help, and it's the immediate help they've received from fellow citizens, communities and companies from all over the Republic. First of all, there must be a thank you here, whether it is, there will not be approved an extraordinary point where the government will confess what it has done or has not done. At the same time, however, as at the second-last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we also have certain obligations against the normal running of the world or history or republic, municipalities, companies and so on, and so on, I think that, in addition to a number of laws that have already been mentioned here in the proposals of the previous speakers for the so-called priority assignment, what should come today in the normal running of our programme should not be fitting, and that is the third reading of the Labour Code, the five weeks of vacations that have been hanging here for weeks, if not months, and where we should actually complete the legislative process. I would also like to say, without wanting to argue in any way, because it is not the most important thing in the end, but it is noted to my colleague Okamura's remarks that we have been proposing a law on a general referendum here for at least ten years, that the SPD did not even exist, and it is a question of who actually copied from, for example, in this subject, and that, as far as the pandemic law is concerned, if Mr Okamura claims that they were the only ones who did not support him, so if I remember correctly, we were also the only ones who did not support him. So, in order not to get lost in the issues and problems that we have to solve, let's really think about the most important thing, and that's what we need to do with pension valorization, these are the circumstances of energy that need to be addressed and which really depend on us to solve them now, in this parliamentary term, and not delay them until the next time. So much for me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u16	Thank you and I'll read a few additional apologies. Mrs Markéta Pekarová apologizes to Adamová today from nine to the end of the day for personal reasons; she apologises to Barbora Kořanová today between 17 and 20 for work reasons; the apology of the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček from today's meeting is cancelled; Mrs Jana Krutáková apologizes for the whole week for personal reasons; Mr Jiří Kohoutek apologizes for today's hearing due to illness from the whole day; Mrs Jana Černochová apologises for the whole week for personal reasons. The next was signed in by Vice-President Pikal, then President Michálek, all priority rights to the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u17	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will have two small proposals. The first, given the suggestions that have already fallen from my colleague, may seem pointless, however... The invitation clearly states that the laws of the Senate Block will be discussed on Tuesday, July 13th. There has been some confusion that could happen today, so I would like to propose that, if this is not the case automatically, we should include a block of Senate returns and Senate rejected laws on Tuesday, July 13, where, by the way, the two points that we are going to settle as Senate returns have to end, so that we have it in one block. With the second proposal, I want to partially respond to what has fallen here, because we Pirates have a question of direct democracy, including a referendum in their programme since its establishment in 2009, and there is a draft law prepared to be discussed. This is House Press 111, and I would like to propose that we include its second reading within those proposals, within the block of second reading, for item number 8, which is House Press 961. It was designed today as part of a block of second reading in the afternoon, so then, if we could make it, we would put the House press 111. It's ready, it's second reading, I believe it can be very fast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u18	Thank you. I believe that we can vote on your proposal, but it is not necessary, because those so-called Senate returns are numbered 2, 3, 4, 5, and therefore, although we do not have a solid classification, we will follow this numbering, and that is why they will come in today. It's rather unusual because we didn't have a meeting Tuesday. So please, if you want some more refills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. That's why I want to put it on Tuesday, so it's a match.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u20	This? Or the next one?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u21	For next Tuesday. I can't include it this Tuesday, that's already been done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u22	That's not how I understood it. Let's move on. Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u23	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I propose that we start today as the first item in House press 944, the infant constitution, paragraph 339 of the agenda, and then the House press 911, the social-legal protection of children, this concerns foster parents, paragraph 339 (?). [[designed]] So these points would be the first and second points to start the meeting today. And if this proposal fails, I suggest we put these two points on Friday 9. 7. It's a third and second reading. Furthermore, I propose Wednesday 7 today. 7 pm, or after the Act on special voting methods, to include a pair of laws relating to lobbying, or the Act on lobbying and the accompanying act, House press 565 and 566, paragraph 16 and 17. Next, I propose Thursday 8. 7. After the written interpelations to firmly include paragraph 539, Information of the Government on the further procedure of the pandemic emergency in the Czech Republic, since the proposal to abolish the pandemic emergency situation was not submitted as a proposal for a group of 40 Members, at least there was no mention of this, so the conditions for its negotiation under the pandemic law are not fulfilled. Within this point, I would like to ask the Government's information on the further progress of the pandemic emergency in the Czech Republic to agree that, if it passes, one speaker will speak for each club, so that within the time frame available there, all the members of the MPs will be included. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. It would probably be good for me to mention that there was indeed a proposal for a point to abolish the pandemic emergency, but the pandemic law has special legislation that this point can only be proposed by a government resolution or one fifth of Members. So, as Vice-President Okamura put it, he's unvoting at the moment. [[Vice-President Okamura's response.]] You also proposed a resolution to cancel. It's not a discussion point. If you're suggesting... So let's not argue, so Vice-President Okamura's gonna fix it now, give him some space while there's a logical connection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u25	Well, I would've modified it, but that's what I originally meant, so just to be clear, the point will be called a debate on the abolition of the pandemic emergency. And that's where we can cover all this stuff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u26	Okay, thank you. And Vice-President Pikal also wanted to amend his proposal so that we could keep things in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize to all of my colleagues, I have received an agreement, so I am withdrawing my proposal for a firm inclusion of those Senate returns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u28	Thank you. In addition to President Michálek's proposal: you have proposed to include something as a point of adjustment to the vote, but let us assume that the second point in the short hearing, the vaccines, will then be included. I guess it'd be better after they did. Please, did you apply for a refill too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u29	I just wanted to amend one proposal, namely the first one concerning the House press 944, the Baby Constitution, and 911, the social-law protection of children, foster parents, so that I withdraw the proposal that concerned Wednesdays, and so remains only Friday, so that it is possible to discuss the House press 911 on the Guarantee Committee, which is taking place on Friday morning. Otherwise, I proposed those lobbying laws intentionally so that they would be before the second legislative emergency at 14.30 after the Act on Special Ways of Voting. And, where appropriate, if this proposal fails, after the second legislative emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u30	Good morning, honourable Members. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u31	It's very unconventional, without any agreement on the grémia, so I also had to sign up. Mr. Chairman Michálek beat me to it. It's about the Lobby Act. The lobbying law is one of those already critically threatened by the fact that we will not be able to make it, while it is in a position to negotiate, the item is open in the debate at second reading. And I'm going to propose that those points 16 and 17, which is press 565 and 566, the law on lobbying and the law related, should be classified as a point that is currently marked as 4, print 545 in the invitation. It's one of those laws returned to the Senate. Then, as managing director, I'm probably gonna let the motion vote one by one, so I'm gonna vote my third. I don't consider it a pure counterproposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u32	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Now with priority rights, Mr. President of the Válek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u33	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to propose the inclusion of a debate on the pandemic law, the pandemic state. There are a number of things that concern this because we know, and I am glad that it has been made clear here that the abolition of pandemic status is possible by collecting 40 signatures and then voting on it. It is even possible to deal with this at an emergency meeting. I would very much hate to have to collect 40 signatures next week, which, of course, is not technically an unsolvable problem, or to have to convene an emergency meeting, say next week, when probably not everyone wants to, and yet the situation with the application of the rules resulting from the pandemic law is not only desperate, but disastrous, because all the rules that are adopted, even at present, are gradually dropping the court one after another, some after they are issued, so they cease to apply. In addition, the rules issued by the Department of Health in connection with the pandemic law are completely obscure for a number of people, and I count among them. On the 1st of September, our internships begin, there are supposed to be IFMSA students here on vacations, which are students of medical faculties, yet nowhere in the legislation counts with them, they are not in those exceptions similar to Erasmus students, and therefore they have an incredible problem to come to the internship. They are not students from risky countries, and I have dozens of letters and a letter from the Chairman of IFMSA, who begs me for help, has repeatedly turned to the Ministry without any response. The second thing I have personally verified, the official information from the Ministry of Parties of necessity or necessity to fill out the green form when returning from green countries, is probably different depending on who gives the information but is not clear, are not uniform. And since we are going to be on holiday, the Chamber of Deputies will not negotiate most of the holidays, if there are no extraordinary meetings, so I would be very happy if we could discuss these rules here, get clear answers to these questions, clear justifications of why it is necessary or not necessary to continue the pandemic situation, and thus apply the pandemic law, we would be given answers to the fact that the Ministry of Health is able today and prepared both professionally and mentally to issue regulations and rules that will be in accordance with the law, and receive clear information about the analysis of increasing the number of positives, how many positives have a more serious history of the disease, how many hospitalized, clear information about the structure of these patients, how much percentage of the mutation they have. I hope everyone's routed, everyone's sequencing. And this information, if we get it, doesn't have to be a long meeting, it doesn't have to be long information. And that is why I would ask for her inclusion from my point of view optimally on Friday as the first point, possibly as the first point after the fixed points this week on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u34	We still have a priority right here, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor, colleagues, I have two suggestions. They're very simple. I would like to ask you if we could include points in the third reading, point 33, state symbols, and 342, on fire protection, for next Friday as the first and second points. These are non-conflict prints, which is why I place them right at the beginning in order to discuss them, and I would like to ask you for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u36	So, points 334 and 342 on Friday, first two? [[Member Bartošek from the O.R. Next Friday!]] Next Friday! Minister Dostálová came forward with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the fact that it has been said that there is no need to place an extraordinary point, that it is assumed that a member of the government will, of course, come out here to help in Moravia. Thank you for that, because I was really prepared for this to tell you how things were going. Indeed, with regard to helping people and municipalities affected by the tornado, the government has adopted a new subsidy programme, the so-called Element, for the restoration of dwellings. The form of aid is therefore a one-off subsidy according to the amount of actual damage up to CZK 2 million, then a preferential loan of up to CZK 3 million up to the total costs covered by insurance. Up to 5 million crowns can therefore be obtained. It may be requested by the owner or co-owner of the dwelling and so on. Of course, it is an assigned grant, which means a subsidy or loan is used to restore the dwelling, i.e. for the reconstruction, construction or acquisition of another property. We also sent mobile teams to be in every village, not only in Moravia, but also in the Ústí Region, to really help these people fill out their request to provide service. I also very much appreciate the way these people approach it, it's really a tremendous pressure on the psyche itself. That's why I don't think it's entirely appropriate to condemn the government for actually coming up with a program in one day to encourage those people's psyche to know that they're gonna stand up for them. We can wonder here if we should have stood up to uninsured people like this, but it was already coming from your side: there are many seniors, seniors, we were just standing in front of that space to deal with it. Finally, even in agreement with the Czech Insurance Association, when we discussed this 12 or 14 days ago, we said that it was impossible not to help them, but we brought it up to one single date, the government's order, that is, to 24. Six, as I say, in agreement with the insurance companies. We also agreed on the amount of advances up to CZK 500,000. The situation is with the uninsured: of course, the state must appeal to people to be responsible for their property, to be insured. On the other hand, those seniors -- and here we need a little bit of solidarity from the government, our House -- is it necessary to realize who might have been waiting for the F4 tornado? Who could have waited downburst in Ústí Region? Those are the phenomena that appeared here for the first time in my life. However, 12 days have passed, and of course we are responding to many stories that we have heard especially within the South Moravian region, and that is why this morning the government amended the government's regulations according to needs. Not only did we remove the public collection, and here I would like to comment on the fact that I used the word that it was more of an interpretational inaccuracies. I'm even, here I have an e-mail from my head of law saying that it was actually taken so that people knew that they couldn't pay one invoice twice. That they simply have to use the collections at other costs that are not linked, for example, to the costs that they will have to bear from the subsidy. On the other hand, I take the argument, I take the complaint, which is why we were prepared to remove public collections from there, just as we are in the South Moravian region with relevant organisations, non-profit organizations, so that the purpose of the donation is, of course, to cause any damage caused by the tornado, so that it is not explicitly put into the dwelling, so that people do not really break the budgetary rules and do not double financing of one and the same thing. In South Moravia, however, we met other stories such as the senior lady, who says that she did not make sure that she was very happy that the state would allow her - because she has to build a brand new house - such a large subsidy, a preferential loan, however, that the loan would like to help her with it - but that it is necessary, and even the granddaughter, of course, requires that the property be transferred to the granddaughter. So, of course, we responded to these property conditions in the government's regulation. And since there was a constant debate with the Czech Insurance Association during the 12 days, there really was an agreement yesterday that it was appropriate to banish, simply favour people who were responsible and insured their property. The bonus is essentially that only 70 per cent of the insurance benefits will be included in the total damage and 30 per cent will remain insured for any damage. It is clear that the damage is not only in real estate, but also in gardens, in various sheds, gazebos and so on, for household equipment - it means that even those insurances have such a bonus. That is the agreement with the Czech Association of Insurance Companies, which supported this. I believe that there really is a need to respond to the problems raised in the field. On the other hand, I do not think that there is anything wrong with the government coming forward quickly, and that it is evolving in time - it is, of course, good that the government responds to this, that it is not concrete in its opinions, but that it responds to the individual needs of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u38	Thank you. For the tape screen only repair: I have read Mrs Kořanová's apology today from 17 to 20 and it is tomorrow 8. 7. He's here now, so just to be clear. I have three more applications with priority rights. Every President, Mr Michálek, Mr Jurečka, Mr Filip. So first, Prime Minister Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor. For the last time, I would like to clarify my proposal concerning the House's 911, social-legal protection of children, so I suggest we put it on 14. 7. at 14.30 at the end of the block firmly classified, those proposed there, on the ground that a period of 24 hours after receipt of the press from the committee must be respected for its consideration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u40	Thank you. President Jurečka, then President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u41	Thank you very much. I appreciate the Minister speaking here, but I would still like the program to be included at the House meeting, because from my point of view, there are many things that raise great questions. For one thing, the Minister has used the word generosity here several times to ask for the generosity of the House, etc. I must say that I am very glad that the people of this country have shown that they are much more generous than the government, that they have put together one billion crowns in about one week of generous aid towards people who are experiencing such a disaster. And don't be mad at me, Madam Secretary, you have said here several times as you discussed this proposal with representatives of the Insurance Association for 12 days. I ask how many times in those 12 days did you or your colleagues discuss this proposal with representatives of the affected municipalities or with institutions representing the municipalities? How many times has this proposal been discussed with the leadership of the South Moravian Region? There I would expect you to go mainly to ask how the rules of support should be set. To the people! To the people involved, to the people who know very closely the problems of those people, the households. I would have expected you to say: I discussed it with all the mayors of the affected communities, because they know best the stories that those people in their communities are experiencing. [[10.10 hours]] It's not just about seniors. I know the stories of families with children, but they didn't have the money to insure themselves, and unfortunately they didn't have the 2 million crowns, nor would a long-term loan of 3 million crowns be enough to restore their disabled housing. That's the reality, unfortunately, so I would very much like to make sure there's a promise and an increase in the aid to express yourself for the government, what do you mean by that condition of 10 years of inability to sell those properties? Those people ask about it, they ask us about it as MPs, they write us e-mails. That's not just one grandmother's story with a granddaughter, that's a lot more people ask - if I get that help, can I sell it, or can I not? It doesn't seem fair to me for the government to say, "We will help, but ten years." Life writes such stories... Those people, maybe for other reasons, decide that in four, six years, they need to move, and they're gonna come back? How will it be set? And I would like the House to comment on this, because the House represents the interests of the citizens of this country, and it is evident that the only people who have had the opportunity to comment on this subsidy title - even from your words - were representatives of insurance companies. And that's not enough. I have one more request for the Minister of Justice to sit here. Please prepare a legislative regulation by next week in a state of legislative emergency, which would clearly once and for all say that donations and government assistance in such an extraordinary natural disaster will not be subject to payments that the bailiffs can withdraw. Let it be made clear once, not only by some interpretation now or by an appeal to part of the executors, but to make a clear legislative change. You now have in your hands that it may be in the order of days. We can still do it by the end of the week. It can be resolved, clarified. And I would expect the government to see the problem from last week that the government approved it this morning, and we could have discussed it here today, and it could have come out within a week, within 10 days, in the Collection of Laws. I'm begging you, solve the problems. We are the representatives of the opposition, we do not have all these legislative instruments in our hands. You've got them, so do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u42	Vice-President Filip. Secretary Dostálová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u43	Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very economical given that I do not want to prevent the negotiation of laws at third reading. In contrast to the nice talk that can be done, I propose that after the Organizing Committee has maintained the Act on referendum in the 111st meeting, that we discuss paragraph 33, second reading of the referendum law, press 117 today as the first after noon break, for the simple reason that when we shorten the deadline between second and third reading, we can discuss this at the third reading next week, as the first point on Friday next week on the 16th, that is paragraph 372. I remind you that the Czech Communist Party and Moravia are presenting the referendum law for the eighth time. Only once were we successful when he went to the Senate and the Senate rejected him. It is therefore obvious that no one here is interested in the implementation of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I remind you, in particular, of those who are wielding the principle of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u44	Thank you. Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. I just have a very short response to my colleague Jurečka, through you. Well, I was there with the mayor very intensely. Last night, I made one last phone call with the Governor, so to suspect that we weren't communicating with them, that really is way over the line. You know what maybe the mayors are dealing with as a current problem? They're grateful for helping those people, they're grateful for the mobile teams. It's just that the people are really there because there's a need, even how many times, to send psychic help from the firefighters. The situation is very serious in the individual territory. But maybe the mayors are dealing with it, which is why it is connected with the Czech Chamber of Architects, so as not to lose the character of the Moravian village and so on. The mayors are dealing with the restoration of their property next to the Living subsidy program. The Ministry has, of course, a subsidy programme for the restoration of property after a natural disaster for municipalities, so we deal with, for example, when there is church property in the middle of the village, so that, with the approval of the municipality, it can also reach this church property. We're dealing with all this, Mr. Ambassador, but of course you're ripping certain pieces out of that context. I set an example here with my granddaughter. All people write to me, but they write to me, too - Madam Secretary, we don't need any mediation, we just need to solve the problem. And I'm here to solve the problem, and I'm glad the government accepted it today as part of the adjustment. So please, I can, of course, approach your rhetoric, so I'd like to thank all the people for giving it a little bit of perspective, because there's so many times we're really gonna have a nice chat in these communities. These people handle it, of course they're happy to be helped by all sorts of collections, gifts, government. The South Moravian Region really sets an example there, and a really big commendation for the fact that crisis management works there. Thank you to insurance companies, everyone who's involved in those mobile teams, because insurance companies have tents in that area, we're dealing with liquidators. I'm dealing with the Association of Construction Entrepreneurs, so that there are as many damage valuers as possible, so that we can pay our support. Well, thank you to the government for coming up with the government's order so soon that these people will calm down that they won't be alone, whether they're insured or uninsured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u46	President Jurečka wishes to respond with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. I'm just gonna make this brief. Madam Secretary, I don't want this to be a feud. I communicate with these people too, even with the Mayors. I publicly defended you members of the government that it was okay for you to go there because it is better to see once than to hear twice. That's not what we're arguing about, whether or not we're communicating with these people, whether or not people are helping them. The help is huge. But I'm having a debate here about how the rules and parameters are set. This is what I want to discuss on this point, so that it is clear here how the government has approved these rules today, what may be expected for the future. You yourself mentioned several specific situations and that you would react to them in some way. I'd like to hear how it will respond to them today. Because that is what increases the degree of uncertainty I can expect for many people who have their specific stories. That's what we're fighting about here. I don't dispute whether you communicate or not. I was asking if the municipality was directly subsidizing... the material the government discussed, whether the municipalities had the opportunity to comment on what comments were and how they were settled. That's what I asked. And I will be happy if the House accepts this as a meeting point, the information will be submitted, explained, we can give an accompanying resolution and we can continue the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u48	There were 15 performances with priority rights, and we still have... and President Chvojka reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to load a change and ask for your support, which concerns the second reading of the Children's Group Act, and I would ask for a firm inclusion of this press today at 17.30. It's press 961, otherwise in the agenda it's item number 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u50	Thank you. I do not see anyone with priority rights at this time, and it is the first person without priority rights to sign up in writing to the debate by Mrs Vostrá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u51	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting here with one proposal, on the solid inclusion of the point that we have in the programme under number 508 at the moment. This is a House document 8036 and it is a proposal for a timetable to discuss the draft State Final Account of the Czech Republic for 2020. I would like you to be so kind as to place this point firmly on Thursday 8. 7th, which is this Thursday, 11 o'clock. [[10.20 hours]] I am very much looking at Mr Michálek, because I realise, of course, that he wants to place another point firmly in his priority right, but I just want to point out that this is one vote, that all the committees with their chapters are already under this timetable, even though it is not approved, have dealt with what I thank the committee chairmen for, and I think, with this one vote, we should set a timetable for how the state of the final account is now being discussed. Therefore, allow me to ask my colleague Michálek, by this unusual way, whether he would not consider his proposal and the point which he firmly or wanted to place it firmly on Thursday at 11 o'clock, which is a pandemic situation and its procedure, whether he would be so kind and could not agree that he would place it as a second point after the one vote on the timetable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u52	Thank you, in any case, for a voteable proposal. Mr Lukáš Černohorský, Mr Kaňkovský, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u53	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to suggest that point 330, the House press 360, should be included in the third reading for points 326, or sorry, 327, because there is a block of the two laws relating to the electronicisation of health care. This point should be relatively fast. This is the final vote on extending the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u54	Thank you for a very brief proposal. Mr Kaňkovský on the agenda, Mr Benešík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u55	Good morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. Allow me to ask you to place paragraph 550 firmly, which is the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the long-term persecution of political opponents, religious and ethnic minorities and illegal organ collections in the People's Republic of China. I propose a firm classification in two options. The first one's tomorrow, Thursday, 12:30 p.m., and the second one's on Friday 9. 7:00 p.m., 1:30 p.m. This item was proposed here for discussion in December 2019. We responded to the petition of several thousand citizens of the Czech Republic, which was handed over here in the Chamber of Deputies, and among the petents are many important Czech personalities of cultural, social life and many politicians. As far as politicians are concerned, among them is the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš. As you know, respect for or non-compliance with human rights in the People's Republic of China has long been criticised by all possible international communities. So far, the Czech Republic has adopted a support position for petents who hold Falun Gong, as well as other groups oppressed in the People's Republic of China. They are political prisoners, they are national minorities, such as Ujgur, Tibeťan, but also other religious groups. This concerns Christians, but also other religious denominations. In the Czech Republic, this issue was addressed by the Senate, which adopted a clear position more than one and a half years ago, which supports the oppressed minorities in the People's Republic of China, expresses its support and calls on the Czech Government and the Czech President to develop a clear international action against the fight against human rights in the People's Republic of China. The Committee on Petitions of the Chamber of Deputies discussed a petition to support the oppressed practicing Falun Gong in June of this year. It was, of course, given in part, the delay, the lockdown and the 8th of June, the petition committee adopted its resolution, which also clearly supports the Pettents of the petition and also calls on the government to take clear action. I believe that it is now our turn, Members here in plenary, to discuss this point and to approve the resolution in question. The resolution is already prepared from that year 2019. I'll send it to you - to the presidents of the various MPs. We are prepared, if necessary, to take your initiative to amend this resolution into this proposal, and I beg you very much to support this proposal. Again, I'm saying the variants: either tomorrow at 12:30 or Friday at 9:00. 7:00 p.m., 1:30 p.m. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u56	Thank you. I'm just gonna make it clear. I've been alerted, there's been another numbering on the invitation. That point is 515 at the moment at the invitation. Mr Benešík, Mrs Hyťhová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, maybe you have noticed that the situation at the Moravian-Slovak border is a little heated. This is due to the fact that Slovakia has decided to close most border crossings so that it can better control incoming and outgoing in view of the pandemic situation. This step is causing huge problems both on the Slovak and on the Czech side. I am from the standings, our local part of Květná has a border crossing to Slovakia, so I am specifically confronted with this situation. It's not just about my community. These are a number of places in the Zlín Region, but also in the Moravian-Silesian Region and in the South Moravian Region. This measure is not respected by local realities, where often citizens living in the Czech Republic in the Czech Republic have to cross the Slovak side several dozen meters to get to work or school, and these measures make this very difficult because roadblocks are built, barriers are built, and the Slovak side clearly has not and does not reflect. It is also about the fact that many of our citizens have properties a few hundred metres from the border and will not get to them. They have relatives there, they have friends that they often care about because they are elderly or sick, and they simply cannot get to them because this measure does not respect small border traffic. Of course, these are also our inland citizens who are going to Slovakia on vacation or just passing through Slovakia either on business or on vacation. I spoke to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, spoke to the Minister of the Interior who promised to deal with the situation, but it is a matter of government. The Slovak Government is said to be willing to negotiate with the Czech Government on how to deal with this situation. I can tell you that this really is an existential problem for a lot of people, a matter that is crashing their lives in a big way, which is why I would very much like the government of the Czech Republic, especially the Prime Minister, to tell us today how it wants to address this situation on the Moravian-Slovak border with the Slovak Government. It is also about the fact that if some transitions remain open, there will be strudels. In Hroztkov, as far as I know, communication is being repaired. It's one of those crossings that's open, Old Hroztkov-Drietoma. What will be the calamity for local people when other crossings are closed and traffic will focus on just a few places such as Stary Hroztkov? Those are just the things that make life so difficult for these people. These people need to get to work. Slovakia has promised to grant exemptions, but the exceptions will apply, at least that's how I understood it, the medical aspect that there won't be any need for quarantine for Pendlers and so on, but if the Pendler has it to work across the border from one side or from the other side 5 kilometers or 300 meters and now it just has it out of the blue, because it's just that his transition is closed, 20 or 50 kilometers, it's a huge complication. Therefore, I would very much like you to support the Government's information on the situation at the Czech-Slovak border, which I propose to include for today at 12 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u58	Thank you. Next on the agenda for a priority-right meeting, Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u59	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, I have to counter-proposal Mr. Vice-President Filip. It is nothing against his proposal, but if he proposes paragraph 33, Parliament's press 111, the referendum law, as the first point of the afternoon, then I must respond and propose as the first point 32 and as the second point 33, so that the proposal, which is already pre-negotiated and has a better chance of discussing the whole and then constitutional support, was discussed first, and perhaps we will get to the fact that we can both move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u60	Thank you. Mrs Hyťhová, Mr Navrkal will be ready. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u61	I'm so sorry to make the deadline. I'm adjusting the previous proposal. Very briefly, I propose that the House press 911 be placed as the first point 14. 7., possibly as the last point in the block of fixed points, or, if neither such proposal passes, as the first point of the block of third reading 16. 7.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u62	So we have more alternatives now. I'll ask if you can communicate with the representative of the Organizing Committee, so I don't make a mistake, so we don't stick around for the vote. Mrs Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u63	Hello. Thank you for letting me speak. I'd like to propose a point here that I've proposed at least three times, and that canceling the pandemic emergency. [[He's taking off his drape.]] I'm sorry, but I'm gonna put the drape down like this so I can understand. Then you can disinfect this place after me, I don't mind. And if you don't mind me asking for some peace? Thank you. I propose this point because I think that's really enough here. I would like to mention here what the Supreme Administrative Court has cancelled since 14 April 2021. The Supreme Administrative Court has exercised its powers under the pandemic law and has stated the legality of emergency measures by the Ministry of Health 24 times in total, which means that the court has given us and our lawyer, and thus the associate professor Zdeněk Koudelka has given the truth. I will briefly read here a list of the judgments that the Supreme Administrative Court has annulled. It is discrimination against people with antibodies, lawlessness of restrictions on entry into premises, participation in meetings and services, testing of employees of small businesses, unjustified testing of employees of small businesses, lawlessness of restrictions on gambling, casinos, lawlessness of shutting down of secondary schools, dictator, lawlessness of restrictions on retailing by prohibition of the presence of people, further lawlessness of rotational teaching of primary schools, unjustified prohibition of night selling of nursery schools, lawlessness of closing of service establishments, unjustified prohibition of night selling, further unjustified order to wear a respirator, mechanical copying of reasons, further lawlessness of closing of sports facilities, gymnasiums, fitness centers, further lawlessness of closing of all kindergartens and primary schools, lawlessness of closing of restaurants, unjustified ban on lifts and cable cars, unjustified order to wear a respirator, further lawlessness of closing of restaurants, complaint against apparently illegal measures, unjustified ban on night selling, unjustified testing of the OSVC, strong complaint against justification, and further lawlessness of the prohibition of assembly, religious actions and restrictions on entry to meetings and internal spaces. Dear friends, the Supreme Administrative Court has abolished all of this. So that means that all these decisions made by our government here were simply illegal and unconstitutional. As I said, I have proposed this point three times, unfortunately I have not been granted. I also proposed the opening of schools throughout the pandemic, and I also suggested that children should not have to wear drapes, respirators, and I also brought a constitutional lawsuit to all Members here for which 25 Members were required. I recall that this constitutional lawsuit was signed by only six Members to abolish the pandemic emergency, and that is all the non-attached Members, no one else. Here I would appeal to the government to change access to the entire covid situation today. I take the liberty of quoting British Prime Minister Boris Johnson. I quote: "The dictation of government ends, we entrust people with responsibility for fighting the virus." Next, I quote: "Britannia throws away drapes, learns to live with the virus. " Next, I quote: "British wants to treat the virus as a flu. " I didn't make that up, dear friends, but I quoted the Prime Minister of Great Britain. I would really appreciate the government considering if we couldn't go this way, just as Mr Boris Johnson and the United Kingdom did, which I think may be a big example for us. That is why I proposed the first point on today's cancellation of the pandemic emergency, and if it did not pass, there is an alternative proposal on Thursday as the first point. That's all, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u64	I just - the same discussion as with Vice-President Okamura, who originally proposed the abolition of the pandemic emergency. There we said that it was not possible under the pandemic law, and then he modified his proposal as a debate on the abolition of the pandemic emergency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u65	Okay. I'm correcting my proposal for a discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u66	In that case, you propose the same point as President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u67	I've already designed this place three times, I just...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u68	In that case, I will consider it an alternative proposal for inclusion. President Okamura proposes it as the first point today, so do you. Then he suggested it on Thursday at 11 o'clock, and you as the first point, which is basically the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u69	In that case, I'm changing the alternative, and I propose Friday as the first point instead of Thursday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u70	First point on Friday, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u71	Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u72	I ask Mr. František Navrkal on the agenda. Mr. Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u73	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of House press 956, namely a third reading, namely today at 12.00 and Friday at 10.00. It is an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, which responds to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of February last year. He's been here almost a year. The press was designed on 23 July last year, and actually, starting this year, the conflict of interest law in the part that concerns accessing the notification register does not work. It would really be worth fixing as soon as possible. The House press has support across the political spectrum, which demonstrates both the list of its promoters and, for example, its discussions on the constitutionally legal committee. I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u74	Thank you. I ask Mr Excellent, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u75	Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, thank you for the floor. I understand that here in the House is the will to discuss Senate vomit this afternoon. I am referring specifically to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 including the House Press 545, the amendment to the Code of Enforcement and the Code of Civil Procedure. In order to actually manage this discussion, given that the senators will represent the upper chamber here, I would like to propose this minor amendment, namely item number 1, House Press 1242, Government Bill on a special method of voting in the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.40 hours]] And with him, Mr President, you have already declared a related point, which was presented here by President Faltýnek, House Press 1255, in a legislative emergency, an amendment on the distribution of vaccinations against COVID-19 disease. So these two points, 1242 and 1255, shift to today's point number 4, that is to say, the returned bill number of the House's press, 545, the execution order and o. s. That is one suggestion, so that we can deal with the House's backs today, and then allow me to make one more proposal, which is completely non-conflict. concerning the House press 1097, paragraph 288. This is a Senate proposal for an amendment to the State Holidays Act, which is proposed under the scheme § 90. It is proposed to introduce a new day, which would be included among the important days, on 24 June as the Day of the Monument of the Communities and the settlements wiped out during the Nazi occupation. It is a response to an annual comment, eventually the Chamber of Deputies is repeatedly taking part in these events, whether they are Ležáky, where the entire settlement was burned and 33 adult citizens were executed in Pardubice on that day at the execution site, at the Pardubice Castle, and 11 were deported to extermination camps - only two girls survived, sister Štulíkův's, but it also concerns other settlements. Remind Moravian Ploština, remind Zakřov or in 1945 the burned settlement of Javoříček near Litovle with 38 victims. All these burned settlements are proposed by the senators to include this day, i.e. June 24th, it is the day when the Ležáky were burned in response to the Heydrichiad or within the Heydrichiad, so to include this day as the Day of the Monuments of the Communities and the settlements wiped out during the Nazi occupation among the important days within the calendar in the Czech Republic. I would like to propose this Senate amendment to be the first point for those points that President Faltýnek has already read here, next Wednesday afternoon, I suspect that it was points 6, 7, 8, 27, 29, second reading, as well as the first point for them, I suppose we are able to actually deal with this in the order of minutes, or alternatively on Friday, July 16, firmly at 12 o'clock. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u76	Thank you. I'm going to put these individual proposals to a gradual vote, and we're going to have some kind of formation. I suggested, among other things, that points 16 and 17 be included in point 4. President Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u77	Thank you for the floor. We have a strange situation here, in which we are actually replacing the negotiations of the Gremium at the plenary. In this context, I would like to make a request to the President of the Chamber of Deputies when, in fact, Marek Výborný's proposal has been made here that the points in the legislative emergency should be after paragraph 4, which is Press 545, execution, but at the same time, there is a proposal from the President of the House to make a second reading of lobbying after that point, so if it could not be modified in any way that it would be possible for the legislative emergency, the lobbying, if the President of the House had considered it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u78	You think this will pass, Prime Minister Výborný. [[Fun.]] In that case, we could do it. [[Fun.]] At least you can see that grémium is not completely unnecessary when we meet before the meeting. Next on the agenda, Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u79	So hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, friends and friends in Malostranské náměstí, hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, friends and friends who are watching live broadcasts from the House right now, good day, ladies and gentlemen and friends here in the House. There has been information in the galleries that the Minister of Health has repeatedly confirmed to Members from various Members' clubs that the Ministry of Health and the Government is responsible for saying that the Government will not propose the negotiation of the law or the amendment of the Public Health Act by the end of this parliamentary term. These are prints - before that it was 1225, now I suspect it is 1231 and it should be the introduction of a covid passports. So I would like to propose a point that will be called Confirmation of Information or the Minister's answer to the question whether or not the Government will propose the negotiation of the amendment of the Public Health Act and the Codid Passports by the end of this parliamentary term. Given that the situation is difficult, I propose to include this point as the very first point of today's negotiations, because, in its essence, it is sufficient to answer yes or no, so either the government will not want to discuss this amendment and the introduction of the covid passports by the end of this parliamentary term or not, on the contrary, the government will want to discuss the inclusion of this amendment by the end of this parliamentary term and its discussion. So I propose this as the first point, alternatively firmly to include it at 11.30, or, here I am asking the Minister of Health to make the situation easier for all of us, to take advantage of his priority right, and to answer that question before the vote. As I say, it is very simple, it is enough for these people, and it is hundreds of thousands of people who are waiting to see whether or not this law will be discussed, so now it is time to confirm that either this will be done on the basis of the government's will, or there is certainty here and the promise of the Minister of Health for the Government YES that this amendment will no longer be discussed by the end of this parliamentary term and that no codim passports will be introduced by the end of this parliamentary term. [[for the government, okay?]] So I repeat, please place either as the first point of today's negotiations firmly since 11.30, or I ask the Minister to perform, thereby withdrawing the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u80	Thank you. Mr Dolínek is on the agenda and then I have the last written application at this time - Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u81	Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I would ask for a technical adjustment to the programme, and that is, that points 3 and 4 are refunds from the Senate, are swapped so that the aforementioned executions are first made and then the Road Act. The reason is simple, I have to be somewhere where I can't apologize, and I hope I can make it back later, so I ask the House - I am the only petitioner and therefore I have to be present in discussing this vomit. So switch points 3 and 4 of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u82	I thank you, however, if Mr Excellent Point 4 had gone over the proposal, it would have suited you and we would no longer have voted on yours. Did I get that right? [[There's no objection.]] Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, also a very brief proposal. It concerns government proposals, but I think there are still two points that should be completed, and these are House prints 989, the law on the protection of designations of origin, and the House press 973. Both concern the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Lisbon Agreement on designations of origin and geographical indications, it is about brand protection, and if it does not reach the end of the parliamentary term, then I think we are putting ourselves at some risk that some brands may fail us, because who knows what will happen after the elections. These are House prints, i.e. paragraphs 25 and 305, and I propose that they be included for next Thursday following oral interventions, or after points that are already firmly included there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u84	With priority rights, Minister of Health. I'll read an apology. The Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes today until 14.30 for work reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u85	Mr President, honourable Members. I hate to do this, but I will respond to my colleague Volný because, as he has repeatedly misled his supporters, who are demonstrating before the Chamber of Deputies today and have flooded all of us with e-mails saying that a law on the protection of public health will be discussed today, which, of course, is a lie. I don't know where, how the information got to them and why they're demonstrating there when I'm not proposing this law on the agenda of this meeting at all today. The law, of course, is waiting for discussion at first reading as submitted by the government, but it will not be put forward in any way. It's just a standard point within some standard first reading, and that's it. I'm sure I never said that the law should be discussed today, that it should somehow be put forward, that we would like to discuss it in some accelerated regime and so on. So I really do not know where this information came from, and I think that this is information from the Member for his supporters, who are really demonstrating quite unwarrantedly today before the Chamber of Deputies, because it really was not in the plan. And you know I didn't even get off on the agenda of this meeting to put this item on the agenda somehow. So, of course, the point of government's approval of the law is classed as an x-th point in the first readings, but it is not assigned in any way and I assume that we will not be able to get to it, or will not be approved by the end of the parliamentary term as we know the time limits of the legislative process. So I really don't understand exactly why this information came out at all because there was no such plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u86	Thank you. I said, anybody else on the agenda? I don't see anybody, so I'm gonna call my colleagues from the lobby to deal with all these proposals as they were. [[Gong.]] At the beginning of the programme, I said that I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to include in the agenda the laws returned or rejected by the Senate, which came on Friday, that is the House press 1008/12, 1009/9, 1091/5. [[He's arguing with an organizational department worker about the laws returned from the Senate.]] At the same time, I proposed that we include a point concerning the resolution which sets out more detailed rules for negotiations in the replacement room 205. Do you want to vote separately, or would we vote here...? [[From the O.R., especially.]] Especially. So first, prints rejected and returned to the Senate. And we can do that at the same time? [[From the O.R. No.]] No, they're all separately, so one at a time. House press 1008/12 rejected by the Senate, draft building law. We will vote in favour of inclusion on the agenda of the meeting without solid inclusion. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered is 165, for 105, against 46. The motion was accepted. It is also a House press 1009/9 rejected by the Senate. That's related. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 165, for 103, against 46. The motion was accepted. Finally, it's press 1091/5 returned to the Senate. This concerns the bill, the amendment of the law, the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of putting them on the agenda? Who's against it? Voting number 5, registered is 166, for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm just reminding you again that the time limit for the hearing is up to 13. 7. Then there is a resolution laying down more detailed rules for negotiations in the replacement room 205 at House 1. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 6, logged in 166, for 160, versus no one. The motion was accepted. Then the President of the Rakušan came forward. His proposal concerns point 335, press 799, energy law. He proposed several alternative assignments, first today as the very first point in third reading. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 7, registered is 166, for 54, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. Alternatively, today at 12 o'clock, the energy bill. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 165, for 47, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. The last alternative. This Friday at 12:30. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 9, we are logged in at the moment 166, for 53, versus 1. The motion was denied. Vice-President Okamura proposes the inclusion of a new item - a debate on the abolition of pandemic alert. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of putting a new item on the agenda? Who's against it? Voting number 10, registered is 166, for 36, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will no longer vote on the solid inclusion as proposed by the Vice-President, and neither will we vote on Mrs Hyťhová's proposals, which proposed the same point. Vice-President Okamura also proposed the third reading of the Law on material distress to include this Friday as the first item. It's a 652 print. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered is 166, for 47, versus 21. The motion was not accepted. The alternative proposal was the first point in the third reading next Wednesday. I've started the vote. Who's up for inclusion? Who's against it? Voting number 12, registered is 165, for 42, versus 24. The motion was not accepted. [[11.00 hours]] President Faltýnek first suggested that we put the newly placed point in a state of legislative emergency in relation to the distribution of pharmaceuticals, i.e. the coverage of the vaccines that have been donated, on the agenda of this meeting. We don't have a graphic design, we have to do it this way. I've started the vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting order number 13, registered 166, for 89. The motion was accepted. We've placed the point. President Faltýnek suggested that we combine the fate of this point with the proposal for voting methods in the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, so that this should be done after this point. And if it goes well, Mr Výborný, it would be points 2 and 3, but it will be after the Act on voting methods to the Chamber of Deputies, which is point 1. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of putting that new item firmly behind point number 1 at this time? Who's against it? Voting order number 14, registered 166, for 86, against no one. This proposal was adopted. President Faltýnek also proposed a block of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Transport within the third reading, so that on Wednesday 14. 7. Vote points in order 336, in short, POZE, print 870, in point 335, print 799, energy law, point 338, print 912, on railways, and point 343, print 1046, on conditions of operation on roads, to make these points the first four on Wednesday 14. 7. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 15, registered 166, for 136, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Faltýnek concerns the press at second reading. Today from 14.30 we would proceed in order... [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] No? 14, sorry, 14. 7. to go first point 6, print 1143, then point 7, then point 8 and then point 26 in the second reading. [[The reaction from the O.R. again.]] 29... 26 and 29? [[Request from the auditorium for individual votes.]] Do you want it individually? [[Scream from the hall: Insert the name of the point.]] So first point 6, print 1143, on social services, from 14:30 second reading, 14. 7. We know what we're voting on. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 16, registered 166, for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. In addition, paragraph 7, press 1144, the parliamentary proposal on social services related. I've started the vote. Sorry, I just started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 17, registered 166, for 159, against no one. This proposal was also adopted. Now we have a point eight, child care in children's groups. There were more proposals. [[Voices from the O.R.]] That was Vice-President Pikal's proposal, he took it back, so we're voting number eight, he's going to be third in turn 14. 7 p.m. I've started the vote. [[Restlessness in the room.]] The amendment to the Children's Group Act, paragraph 8, follows the two social services, 6 and 7. I've closed the vote, I declare him misguided. [[18]] Was there a counterproposal? [[Responses from the O.R., Mr. Chvojka's counterproposal.]] I was looking for it. President Chvojka proposed today at 5:30 p.m., so first the counterproposal. I've started the vote. Who's in favour of Prime Minister Chvojka's proposal? Who's against it? Voting order number 19, registered 166, for 133, versus 1. The motion was accepted. So we'll continue with President Faltýnek's block, and we'll discuss the children's groups another time. Point 7 would be followed by point 26, print 933 of the Ministry of Finance, development of the capital market. [[Member of the Faltynek Hall: 993.]] 993. I've started the vote. Who's up for point 26? Who's against it? Voting order number 20, registered 166, for 140, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We are left with point 29, print 1148, veterinary law, in that order. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 21, registered 166, for 143, against no one. This proposal was adopted. This should be everything from Mr.Faltýnek and now President Jurečka - he has spoken and demanded the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government of the Czech Republic on the provision of assistance to those affected by the tornado. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 22, registered 166, for 83, versus 1. This proposal was rejected. We will no longer vote for a solid position. [[Screaming from the O.R.: Checking the votes.]] Will there be a vote check? Wait a minute. [[11.10 hours]] That's all right. Yes, I do, before we proceed with the next vote, so I've checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to rejoin. We will continue with Mr. Michálek's proposals. First of all, it proposes paragraph 339, printing 944, concerning infant formulas, to be included as the first of this Friday 9. 7. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting 23, registered 160, for 52, against no one. The motion was denied. Then there is a request for the inclusion or assignment of point 357 on the social-law protection of the child, printing 911. There were more of these proposals, first of all, the first point on Friday, this Friday 9. 7. [[Brief details with the Director of the Organising Committee.]] So point 337, not 357, as I said, printing 911, first on Wednesday 14. 7th as the first point of the block. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 24, registered 162, for 80, against no one. The motion was denied. The alternative was after the fixed points, and we included the four, as President Faltýnek suggested, so after these points. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 25, registered 163, for 89, against no one. The proposal was adopted on the 14th after the already firmly placed points. The other proposals by President Michálek concerned lobbying, paragraphs 16, 17, prints 565 and 566, and he wanted to include them after the law in a brief hearing on voting methods in the Chamber of Deputies. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 26, 163 entered, for 36, versus 3. The motion was denied. There was an alternative... after point 2, which means, first it was after the vote, now it would be after the vaccines. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 27, 163 entered, for 36, versus 1. The motion was denied. President Michálek also proposed to include paragraph 539 on Thursday after written interpelations - information on the Government's progress in the pandemic emergency. I've started the vote. Who's up for a Thursday after a written interview? Who's against it? Voting number 28, registered is 164, for 45, against 1. The motion was denied. Furthermore, there is my proposal that we include points concerning lobbying, 16 and 17 as point 4, which is press 545, the Civil Procedure Code, these are executions. And if he went through the suggestion that the execution would be the very first one, then the short-term negotiations would go, then, alternatively, lobbying would follow the short-term negotiations. Do we understand what we are voting on? No... So my original proposal was for point 4. If paragraph 4 is to be approved, Mr Excellent's proposal for the four to go first, I do not insist that lobbying go second and third, but that it stays behind the short-term negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u87	Would it not then be most logical to vote first for Mr Excellent so that we can then decide?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u88	It's possible. If everyone agrees, we can. [[No objections.]] In that case, first of all, Mr Excellent's proposal to include paragraph 4 of the Amendment to the Enforcement Order today as the very first point, yes, at 14.30, of course, now we have a third reading. [[Noise in the hall]] I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 29: 167, registered for 157, versus Nobody. The motion was accepted. In that case, I will modify my proposal for first to be paragraph 4, then followed by two shortened negotiations and then it would only be lobbying. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, registered is 167, for 107, against no one. [[from the board: against 1]] The motion was accepted. President Válek proposed the first item on Friday as the first item of the debate on pandemic measures... It's already an existing point 539. To place it firmly on Friday as the first point... First of all, the very first point this Friday. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 31, 164 logged in for 83, versus 3. The motion was accepted. So it's in front of the third reading block, so we understand each other. [[11.20 hours]] Other proposals are from President Bartošek. First, it proposes point 334 concerning state symbols and the use of state symbols. Or both together? If there's no objection, we'd put those two points on state symbols and point 342 next Friday 16. 7. First and second points. I started the vote (32). Who's in? There's an objection. Ending the vote. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka, or...? The vote check... Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u89	I'm sorry, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I found out I had a yes at the junkyard, I voted no. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u90	Before I forget, Mr Ondráček insisted that we vote separately on the two proposals made by President Bartošek. On this point, there is an objection to the result of the vote on the previous point, which was President Válek's proposal. First, we will decide on the objection. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of complying with the objection? Who's against it? Voting number 33, registered 167, for 158, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We shall therefore repeat the vote. [[Checkout request.]] I checked you out. We will again vote on the fact that paragraph 539, the debate on pandemic measures, is the first item on this Friday. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, registered 161, for 78, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. Then we are voting an alternative, and that was the inclusion of this point after the fixed points on Friday. There aren't any listed at the moment, but there's gonna be a suggestion, there's a third reading. So, was it meant after the third reading? [[No.]] After fixed points. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 161, for 77, versus 1. The motion was denied. Now we have Mr Bartošek's proposals again and we will vote separately. First, point 334, print 702, state symbols, from the workshop of the Ministry of Interior - insert firmly next Friday 16. 7th as the first point. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Vote number 36, logged in 164, for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal is paragraph 342, print 1027, fire protection to be ranked second on Friday 16. 7. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, registered 165, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now we have a point 33 and a point 32. First, President Filip spoke and asked for paragraph 33, which is the second reading of press 117, to discuss this as the first point this afternoon. The Vice-President is here to modify it - after the ones we've fixed so far, there's quite a lot of them there, for lobbying. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 38, registered 165, for 34, versus 15. The motion was denied. And now the question, Mr. Vice-President Pikal, is there a vote... [[An agreement with the President's desk.]] So at the same location, that means after lobbying, we're going to vote on point 32, that's also a referendum, except from other plaintiffs. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, we are 164, for 52, against 17. The motion was not accepted. This has dealt with priority rights, and now we come to proposals by Members without priority rights. Mrs Vostrá has proposed that we include this Thursday, 8th Thursday, paragraph 508, House document 8036, the schedule of the state closing account. 7:00 p.m. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, registered 166, for 148, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Černohorský suggested that we place paragraph 330, press 360, which is the third reading of the amendment to the SAO Act, within the block behind point 327, which is the electronicisation of health related. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, registered 166, for 129, versus 12. The motion was accepted. Mr Kaňkovský proposes paragraph 515, which is the position of the Chamber of Deputies on the long-term persecution of political opponents, religious and ethnic minorities and illegal organ collections in the People's Republic of China. This item proposes to be included tomorrow, Thursday, at 12.30. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered is 164, for 60, against 12. The motion was not accepted. [[11.30 hours]] Alternatively, the proposal is to include this item this Friday at 13.30. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, registered is 164, for 61, versus 12. The motion was denied. Mr Benešík proposes to include a new item Information about the situation on the Czech-Slovak border. I've started the vote. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered is 165, for 87, against 2. The motion was accepted. And now we would vote on his solid inclusion, the Member proposes today at 12 o'clock. I've begun the vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 45, registered is 165, for 84, against 4. The motion was accepted. The vote check... Mr. Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I voted "stayed," and I have a yes on the high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u92	Thank you. I will immediately vote on your objection. I've started the vote. Who is there to comply with the objection? Who's against it? Voting number 46, registered is 165, for 164, against no one. The objection has been granted, so we will repeat. There's a checkout request. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček wishes to speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u93	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I, if you don't mind, would like to say a few words about the vote. Of course, I do not question the right of any Member to propose anything, but on this point I ask myself what we are going to discuss here, because we have a third reading to discuss today, instead of this point. I've known about the situation since yesterday. I was in contact with Mr Benešík, which was confirmed on the microphone, as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Now I got a text from my Slovak colleague, who I sent our request with three points, which should sort of solve the situation according to our proposal. The answer from the Minister of the Interior of the Slovak Republic is that the Slovak Government is now in session and that once the government's negotiations are over, we will receive information. So we can't do any more, the ball is on the Slovak side. I'm just asking myself, what is it? The Chamber of Deputies will be here from 12 o'clock in case it passes. Because we have put all possible levers in order to resolve the situation quickly, and the Slovak side is currently discussing the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u94	Thank you. Mr Pavel Blažek apologizes for the afternoon's work. Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský apologizes today to the end of the day from twelve for family reasons and apologizes today to Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, 7. 7. from 14.30 and 8. 7. for working reasons throughout the day. So now we are going to vote again on the solid inclusion of the point proposed by Mr Benešík for 12 hours today. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 47, registered is 162, for 73, against 13. The motion was denied. Mr Navrkal proposes paragraph 344, press 956, the third reading of the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, to be firmly placed at 12 o'clock today. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, registered is 163, for 74. [[on the light board 164]] [[Against 3.]] The motion was denied. Alternatively, the Member proposes this press to be included on Friday at 10.00 this Friday. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, registered is 163, for 76, versus 2. The motion was denied. Mr. Výborný. We have already voted on one of his proposals, and then he proposed paragraph 288, press 1097, Senate Bill on State Holidays, a major day 24. 6. as a monument to the exterminated villages, to include as the first point next Wednesday afternoon after firmly ranked points, as suggested by President Faltýnek and were approved and included. So next Wednesday afternoon, after the fixed ones. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 50, registered is 165, for 145, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Lubomír Volný proposes the inclusion of a new item The Minister for Health's answer to the issue of the issue of the issue of the covid passport. I've started the vote. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting number 51, registered is 164, for 21, against 17. The motion was denied. We will no longer vote on solid inclusion. Mr Dolínek wanted to put the four in place, but since we have already voted on Mr Výborný's proposal, I assume that there is no interest anymore. [[11.40 hours]] And we have President Benda's proposals, which first proposes paragraph 25, press 989, the country of origin's protective designation, am I correct? Line up next Thursday after written interpelations. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, registered is 167, for 163, against no one. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by Mr Benda concerned paragraph 364, press 973, in order to follow the one that we have just included. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, registered 167, in favour of 161, against no one. The motion was accepted. I have come to the end of my list of proposals today and we will vote on the draft agenda for the meeting as a whole. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 54, registered is 166, for 105, versus 2. The proposal has been approved, the programme has been approved. I'll hand over the meeting management. Before that, maybe I'm taking into account the club presidents if we didn't do a little bit of third reading, or if we really had a break at one o'clock. It is 11:41 p.m. and we have just finished discussing the program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u95	Good morning again or just before noon. Ladies and gentlemen, we will follow the agenda now approved. [[Noise in the hall.]] The first point of our negotiations is the Government's bill on the electronicisation of health care. I'll ask the House for peace. Before we deal with the point, President Marian Jurečka has signed up with priority rights, but I will not give him the floor yet because there is a huge amount of noise. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are discussing the approved agenda of the meeting, please be in the lobby and let President Jurečka speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u96	Thank you. Mr President, just briefly. I have to say that I am sorry that the inclusion of the proposed point did not go through Government information on assistance to municipalities, families, households, tornado companies. When I looked at the junk, I must say that one thing surprised me that he did not vote for it, for the proposal, none of the Members elected for South Moravia from the members of the club of the ANO movement, none of the Communists elected for South Moravia and one of the Social Democrats voted for my proposal, one abstained. I think these people deserve to hear how the government wants to deal with the issue of execution, how the government wants to deal with the help of businessmen, small businesses, winemakers, farmers. So none of this is going to come out here, we're going to watch the media outputs and tweets of individual members of the government again. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u97	So now we're going to deal with... Mr Válek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u98	Thank you, Mr President, only briefly. For me, it is disappointing to have a repeated vote on a fixed point of the party information about the pandemic law or the pandemic state. I really think there's a lot of confusion. I really think it is a pity that you refuse to allow a clear, understandable debate in the Chamber of Deputies. It is a pity that students who wanted to go to internships and IFMSA will not know whether they can go or not whether foreign students can or cannot come. It is a pity that the information of the Ministry of Health is contradictory and that we will not know what the next holiday plan is. All I have to do is get enough signatures and ask for an emergency meeting. This is pointless, but it is necessary because holidays are long and, unlike you, what you voted against, I believe that citizens have the right and need to know clear, understandable and understandable information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-000-000.u99	I thank my colleague Válek. Just a reminder that Wednesday and Friday from 9.00 to 14.00 are usually for third reading, so when someone is heading to this date to include another point that is not in third reading, they cannot expect automatic support. So we will now discuss today's first point and that is
