ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u1	3. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency and for a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies No. 1530 of 18 February 2021 To this point, you have received a House document 7577, which also contains a Government resolution requesting, outside the extension of the emergency situation, a review of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies no. 1530. I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to present the proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u2	Hello, everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would first like to declare here for the government that I have sent on 24 February 2021 a request from the Government of the Czech Republic for consent to the extension of the emergency period for a period ending on 31 March 2021. I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the Government, I take back part of the above application, in part concerning the request for a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of 18 February 2021, number 1530, on the cancellation of the emergency situation, which was declared under number 84/2021 Coll., but our request for an extension of the emergency situation lasts. And I'd just like to remind you that we're the application, and we've declared the emergency situation on the basis of a request from the captains, so that we can get back to history as it was. So the House was opposed to the extension, then the captains asked us, we declared it. And that's why the government wants to prolong the emergency and, of course, the debates, whether it's legal or not, we think it is, and we believe that we've declared it right, and I don't want to deal with who the lawyers are saying. [[16.30 hours]] I would briefly return to 1. 3. 2020. I'm supposed to go to Prima on Sunday to speak on the first anniversary of the pandemic, but I'm not gonna have any room there, so I'm gonna let myself use it here. In January 2020, we noticed by the end of 2019 that there was a virus in China. Our hygienist assured us that everything was okay, she was giving interviews. In January, we were sending medical supplies to China to help them, 4.5 tons. And we pretended it was none of our business. On the day of 8. 3. I got a call from the Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček and he said there was a gentleman who wanted to show us something. This gentleman came in, his name is Mr. Řehák, and based on the numbers from Italy, where we saw the pictures on TV where people die in the hallways, he showed us a mathematical model. I didn't want to believe it, so every morning I waited for the number of people infected. And when the model worked, we got totally scared, and we took the first measures in Europe - and I want to remind you - that we canceled our flights to Italy, canceled our flights to South Korea, Iran. We closed the borders and watched with tension, on March 1 the family came from skiing from Italy to Děčín and every day we watched the number of people infected. Then, based on the model, we were the first to de facto make a total lockdown that had a great effect. If anyone is always mocking me when I said "best in covid" at the conference in August, then the Čech were best in covid. I never talked about us, about our government. I never talked about myself. I was talking about the great video that Mr. Ludvík did, which I sent to Trump and everyone, and we were an example of that. Yes, we weren't able to buy medical supplies, we weren't, there was no one in the world. But the Čech did it. Even without us. And great! That's why the Čech were best in covid. And if any journalists keep saying that I was talking about myself - I never talked about myself! Yes, we did not; no one could, because the moment the entire planet wanted billions of robes, it was impossible. We had 30,000 medical supplies in the state's material reserves - 10,000 drapes, and even then, when we started building Letňany, we found that our beds were about 40 years old. And we did great. Those were the times when people accepted it. And it was a time when, in fact, when someone was outside without a mask, the other fellow citizens warned him, "You don't have a drape! Why aren't you wearing a mask? And it worked, people accepted it. Yes, we were totally scared of Italy, and we did it. I repeat - we did it as a nation, as a republic. And it wasn't the government's fault. Of course, we've done our best. Eventually, we got the protective equipment. So then, in March, 30,000, today 160 million medical devices. We have 80 million drapes. So it was the time when we actually had the biggest - I still remember when we were dealing with the biathlon. There was great resistance, a biathlon must be! We questioned the measures, and we tracked until the taxi driver who infected about 100 people came along, and the community broadcast started. And that was the break. But even so, the largest number of infected people was 422 and the most dead in the day was 15. And this all happened, and then we got pressured to relax, so we started to relax gradually, we didn't have any "dogs." We loosened up on the basis of individual sectors, and on 29 May, a smart quarantine team announced that they were leaving the Ministry of Health, and the Ministry of Health took over. In June there was a celebration on Charles Bridge, we were all celebrating and looking forward - and that is not regret, that is a statement. We all celebrated that the virus was gone. We've canceled the drapes one. 7. Huge mistake! We tracked, but we only tracked people with symptoms. And they all went to Croatia, 100,000 people came back from Croatia, and we didn't test them. Huge virus charge! Huge mistake! Techtle mechtle, a huge mistake! We should have closed all the bars immediately. We didn't do it! So, yes, the mistakes have been made terribly. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8. wrote Professor Hajdúch email, I was not receiving, but it is no excuse that we are the fourth worst in occurrence. 17, actually. 8. we have submitted a methodology for returning to schools, a methodology for traffic light. 19 days. 8. was regulation that it is flat, so I asked exactly the same question as Chairman ODS why in two days there is a difference. And then 20. 8. measures were made when the specific groups finally agreed. And 26. 8. said the health officials that the virus had weakened. But by the end of August, no one came. If journalists make fun of it, even the Řehák, who had Italian numbers in March, had no more numbers. And that's not an excuse, that's a statement. So that's how it went down, and, of course, there were other mistakes. And I fundamentally reject the fact that it had something to do with the regional elections, please. Definitely not. Covid became the theme of regional elections, yes, there were no other topics. All they asked on TV was how the government... covid. Nobody asked about regional issues. I fundamentally reject that it would have something to do with those decisions. It wasn't, it certainly wasn't. [[16.40 hours]] And then we had changes at the minister's post. Christmas was coming, and another mistake. Everyone called PES, PES, we need predictable. So we had "dog" and we still have it. Crazy complicated. We connected the restaurants to the shops. There was a lot of pressure: open, open. The opposition, as it pushed us to open in April and May, was just as it was before Christmas. We opened 3. 12. Big mistake! We shouldn't have opened those restaurants. Yes, can you tell me why you did it? Sure. We can discuss why we did it. Then we came up with antigen tests. We said, yes, please, get tested before Christmas. But the release... And we got the schools loose. That was a mistake before Christmas, too. That's how 23 of us blew it out. 12 to 14,000. We've taken measures that, by the way, have been in place since 27. 12. and it's still the same. Everyone's asking why. I just want to tell our citizens that the measures are exactly the same as in Austria. And why isn't that working for us? So, of course, over Christmas... we begged the families not to meet, to pay attention. Of course, the stories are x. And after Christmas we opened, we probably didn't. Probably should have been a lockdown sooner. And, yeah, back then, we can make a different comment. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because I understand that the government has been miscommunications. I've already recommended x-times to ministers not to comment on any epidemiological measures at all. Yes, we don't have the face of a pandemic that still goes on TV like Mr. Prymula did today. It should be communicated by an epidemiologist, some kind of expert. But we had so many experts here over the summer, people didn't even know what was true or what wasn't true, how the virus is and isn't, and so on. So why us today? Or what do we really want from people? Well, we would - and I know that trust is not here, that we may have failed x-times, but that doesn't mean that we haven't done our best, that we've been working all the time since that February or January last year, trying, fighting to protect the lives of our fellow citizens - and what we need now: that people, citizens who are frustrated and are obviously in a difficult mental state - and we all want to, and we want to go back to a normal life - we need people to act like they are in March 2020. And if we succeed together, I believe that we will be able to do this fundamentally and that there will be no collapse of our health care, because the collapse, unfortunately - we are already on the edge and the virus has changed. He's aggressive, he's attacking all ages. And if we had the top of the ibis, intensive care units, in the second wave, 6. 11th, 1 209th, so today we are approaching the number of hospitalized in ICUs 1,500. And that's the biggest problem. And of course the development was. We're also testing to the max. Today, for example, 22. 2. we tested 102,000 tests. It's not true that we don't panic, we try, smart quarantine, we do all those things. But we have just come to the conclusion that we need an emergency, and we simply need people to limit their contacts, limit them exactly the same way as when we were terrified in March and behaved the same way. And not that today, when someone wears a drape or a respirator, they yell at him why he has it. It is quite the opposite, as it was in March. So this is why we're here and why we're asking the House to agree to an emergency. If the vote fails, I will, of course, call the government immediately after the vote, and the government will declare an emergency. We have no choice. We have no other choice, because for the measures we want to take, and they are almost the same as in March 2020, we simply need the emergency situation to be in accordance with the laws of our country. We've been doing this, we've always done this, and I think it's very important. I firmly believe that people will understand and that they will understand that this is the only solution to get back to normal. I'd like to comment on the vaccination, please. There's really a lot of information on vaccinations all the time, and believe me, we're trying to get the most vaccines. Maximum! Even yesterday, the Commission will probably give us about 100,000 Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines based on France's support. Israel has given us 5,000 vaccines. We're trying to get vaccines. Of course, I visit other countries and gain experience. In this vaccination, we are all together with the regions and I think the cooperation with the captains works very well. We have 174 vaccination sites. And we can't be blamed that there's a big difference between how many vaccines we've received and how much we've inoculated. When someone counts that about 80,000 vaccines are coming in yesterday or today, logically, we couldn't inoculate them right away. So you need to... And if we take this objectively, the difference is really minimal. They are still waiting for Pfizer/BioNTech. Even the moderna. And AstraZeneca - some vaccination sites were vaccinated normally and other vaccination sites postponed it for teachers' vaccination. 1. 3. We open another registration for citizens 70+. We engage in practices. We're gonna vaccinate the teacher. Izrael, with whom we are in contact, informed us that they made a mistake not to inoculate teachers. Of course, we want the kids to go back to school. We've secured the antigen tests. We're gonna test. So, he's inoculating, it's not true that we're unable to vaccinate. We're all in this. Even the opposition parties, their leaders are in this with us, we are working together, and I think we are working well together. Indeed, the pandemic needs to be addressed in terms of protecting the lives of our people, not in terms of some October elections. I'm definitely not doing this because of the October election. I'm doing this to do everything I can to protect our people. It's vaccine. [[16.50 hours]] Then the drugs - I don't even want to comment on what he was saying about all the drugs. We had different hopes. First he was Plaquenil, then Remdesivir came. Isoprinosine, please, is my story with Professor Beran who came in, said it worked, so we did it, we did a group that was supposed to do a clinical study, but here we have an SÚKL, which clearly said it wasn't. Of course, we were able to arrange - yes, someone can mock the fact that he arrived at Thomayerův's hospital last night from Lilly, and we are probably the other ones in Europe - the antidote cocktail, and already yesterday evening a cancer patient got him. And that's a drug that's 70 to 80 percent effective to protect the course when someone's infected. We are second in Europe, who managed to buy Regeneron. That's the medicine that President Trump got. In Europe it was purchased by Germany - 200,000 doses - and we bought 12,000, SÚKL approved it, the Ministry made an exception. It was supposed to go through the European Commission, but it would take until April, and then, of course, it would all be late, so we arranged it. So I fundamentally reject the fact that we don't care about our fellow citizens. We're doing the best we can. The new miracle cure in Israel. We personally wrote a letter to the scientist, we're in touch. By the way, our scientists here invented a similar drug. Yesterday, an application went to the SÚKL, it's a solution when it inhales, it kills the virus in the body. Ivermectin, this is where we heard it, Ivermektin all day. Yes, Ivermectin is basically an antiviral that reduces the viral charge. I spoke to the Slovak chief. She filed it - how many people it got... 30. And there's even the head of MUDr. Michal Rezek at St. Anna, who handed it to 35 people, so we're watching. But it's not written anywhere that it's really a medicine that works. However, we try to track all these things to get them. I have a statement here about Ivermektin from SÚKL, which is not entirely positive, but we say we don't wait for clinical trials, let's try to apply it. Here I have analyses from the Czech Society of Anesthesiology and CPR - use of Ivermectin. So I can assure everyone that all the medications we hear about will occur in the world, so we're dealing with it. So I just want to conclude by saying that I'm assuming that this vote isn't going to happen, but I don't know, maybe you'll change your mind. I would like to ask you to support the extension of the emergency situation, because we think that it has been declared correctly and that we need it, but if we lose this vote, I will immediately call on the government to explain to our fellow citizens how important it is that we really limit our contacts for three weeks. I understand it's hard, but it's extremely important, if we don't want the total collapse of our hospitals, then we have to do it. We need to do this together, and hopefully everyone will understand, and that they will give us one last chance to do this together, so that we can go back to March 2020. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u3	Thank you. Before I open the debate, I would like to repeat: there is only one debate, there are no factual points to be made, in the debate a Member may speak only twice, the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, any limitation of speaking time applies also to the Members responsible for bringing the opinion of the Member's club on the matter. The exercise of priority rights is not affected; accompanying resolutions are not excluded. With a procedural proposal, Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u4	Mr President, dear government, colleagues, I would like to propose a reduction in speaking time to five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u5	I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I shall vote immediately on the procedural proposal. I will give you another chance to have colleagues take part in the vote, who I see coming through the door. I repeat: a proposal has been made here to comply with the provisions of § 109m para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure Act reduced the speaking time to five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 10, 155 Members registered, for 95, against 17. The motion was accepted. We have limited speaking time, so I am opening up a debate. I have several priority rights here. Let me just ask you, Mr. Feri got a point of fact on my mind. It's gone, okay. In that case, the first priority right, Vice-President Okamura. Vice-President Pikal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by saying that the SPD movement will not support the extension of the emergency situation as it did last time. At the same time, I will state the reasons, including our proposals for solutions. Government measures are not working. Once again, citizens need to be involved as partners in resolving the situation on the basis of personal responsibility for their health. The Czech Republic must stop being dependent on the decisions and actions of the institutions of the European Union. The European Union is hurting. Sufficient effective vaccines must be provided from all sources for rapid vaccination of citizens who wish to be vaccinated voluntarily, with emphasis on risk groups. Voluntary vaccination should be addressed primarily by using a network of practitioners. By the way, in order to use the network of practitioners, we have for the first time warned and called on the government to do so about two months ago, and until now the government approaches it. For risk groups of citizens it is also necessary to provide free respirators FFP2. It is necessary to strengthen the capacity of hospitals by using the capacity of spa treatment, including the personnel capacity of these organisations. Immediately, based on experience from practice, it is necessary to start the treatment of the disease with functional medicines recommended by medical practitioners. Instantly it is necessary to use Czech tests available for user-voluntary self-testing. And it is necessary to support our own capacity for the production of our protective and preventive equipment so that we are not dependent on abroad. In keeping with clear preventive measures, it is necessary to allow the operation of retail and services, including gastronomic services. People need to go buy shoes or go to the hairdresser and so on. It is necessary to open schools for teaching in compliance with clear preventive measures using voluntary self-testing. It is possible to adjust schedules, divide pupils into groups and so on. It is also necessary to provide free citizens with FFP2 respirators in public transport, as well as to strengthen public transport links in order to reduce the accumulation of citizens. It is also necessary, for example, to lay down strict preventive rules for the entry and residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. No migrants, since different illegal migrants from different Islamic and other developing countries are being detained here every week, so our borders are like colanders. [[17,00 hours]] It is confirmed that lockdown, i.e. area bans, is not really a solution. The most recent example is neighbouring Austria, which, despite the threat of the third wave of Coronavirus, decided to leave the lockdown and go the way of dispersal under clear epidemic conditions. For more than two weeks there are open shops in the country, the children returned to school, the services began to work again. Chancellor Sebastian Kurz, in an interview for Bild, confirmed that the lockdown had lost its effectiveness. Because people didn't follow him, the continuation of the closure didn't make sense. It is therefore necessary to target, as the SPD says, not to take surface measures. Moreover, the number of patients in the territory that have restricted or restricted citizens does not differ dramatically in the finals. Czech Minister of Health also confirmed that government restrictions are not working, Minister of Health Jan Blatný for the ANO movement. But instead of some change, the government is proposing even tougher restrictions. The Czech government of the ANO and ČSSD movement with the support of the KSČM does not have any credible analysis of why it limits this or that. Therefore, the Constitutional Court also criticises and repeals certain measures as unfounded. Not only the Constitutional Court and many lawyers, but the general courts, have the same view. The Municipal Court in Prague ordered the Prague Grammar School Na Zatlance to renew the daily form of education. The distance form of teaching forbade him from the justification that the relevant crisis measures were based on an unconstitutional state of emergency. The court thus granted an administrative lawsuit filed by a first-year grad school student. The decision is final. The case has its good side and its bad side. The good news is that students want to go to school and claim their right to education in court. The worse news is that the government is ignoring their right to education. When I learned that maybe this week the students are on vacation, when they've been home for almost three quarters of a year, I felt like somebody really went crazy. So the court will order the school to open because the government's decision on an emergency situation is unconstitutional, and the government will immediately decide to close first and second classes. And really, the mystery is the thought marches of those who know that courts have called shutting down schools, for example, unconstitutional, and instead of self-flexion and correction, they plan even bigger closures. I'm not a non-critical fan of the Constitutional Court, that's for sure. But if the government refuses to respect the decisions of both the general and the Constitutional Court, it is asking for the same reaction from its citizens, a massive wave of civil disobedience, which will, of course, have the advantage that the struggle of citizens for maintaining democracy will be legitimate and legal. The government's talking about hospital overload. We currently have less than 7,000 people in hospitals with COVID. Our hospitals have less than 50,000 beds. There's about 24,000 beds of follow-up care. Seven thousand patients should therefore not be a national problem with proper logistics. Yes, there may be problems in the districts with small hospitals, but they were not enough in capacity long before the covid. Lockdown doesn't solve their problem. We also learn shocking information from paramedics. People who are needed after a week of covid negative are further led as covid patients and hospitals continue to collect fat surcharges for them. The President of the Association of Practicing Physicians of the Czech Republic, Dr. Petr Šonka, says that the problem is rather in lack of post-care beds. At a certain stage of the coronavirus crisis, some patients were found to remain on acute care beds, even if they no longer needed it. There was nowhere to move them if they couldn't be moved to their own social facilities. Dear Prime Minister, Mr Minister of Health, this must be addressed. Since 2008 the number of beds in hospitals has been reduced in the Czech Republic. In total, between 2008 and 2015, 14 720 disappeared in quotation marks in the Czech Republic. Thus, there was a decrease to 76,7 percent of the state compared to 2008. Between 2012 and 2015, a total of 10 289 beds were cancelled. This was followed by the intention of the exminister of health Leoš Heger from TOP 09, who wished to cancel about 10,000 beds. Politicians not only from the TOP 09 but also those from the ODS have successfully disturbed not only the beds but the entire hospital in the past. It's a good thing we managed to protect at least the hospitals and beds we have today. In addition to beds, the sick also need medication, and even here the government shamelessly sleeps. While the surrounding countries produce and approve new and new covid drugs, in the Czech Republic, the government is still kind of running around. It's not really about new drugs. All these virosoes are decades known and tried drugs, plus, of course, mostly Rus are developing drugs specifically for covid, and for example Slovák have already agreed to produce them in their license. Whether we want to or not, there is also a steady seafall in the entire population, and millions of people have already met the covid. According to Professor Immunologist Bartůňková, 80 percent of them should have already started a natural cellular immunity, which should last nine months or more. Other millions have natural immunity because they have encountered other types of coronavirus in the past. Out of a total of 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic to limit 8 million covidem in no way on the life of the intrepid people has logic and there is no true justification for this, that is, a general restriction. Flat bans aren't the way. Lockdown is not the answer. In keeping with clear preventive measures, it is necessary to allow people to work and do business and to live. The SPD movement has never mitigated the situation or debached it, and we always propose concrete constructive proposals on how to deal with the situation outside the announcement of an emergency situation. At the moment, the family can't go to the restaurant for lunch, but if you look at Tesco in the early evening, there's a couple of inches apart on the Angel in Prague. And as contagious as covid is, cashiers are clearly healthy, even though tens of thousands of people go by them every day, and more importantly, cashiers have been touching the goods before the customers. This is either a big epidemiological mystery, or the fact that if people follow some hygiene rules, then the government can really let them live and work. When it comes to closed pubs, everyone probably knows that many of them are secretly open to regulars, and in most of them they have started smoking and no one, of course, uses the EET, so some people even applaud the change. In summary, the current government policy on area measures, area bans are not going anywhere, and figures are getting worse. The government must aim to protect risky and vulnerable groups of the population - I do not mean isolation, I mean targeted protection of risky and endangered groups of the population - and the maintenance of the health system. And let the rest of them live and work with basic hygiene measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u7	Thank you. Next with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u8	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I am merely applying to the position of rapporteur for this press, or proposal, in order to comply with the conditions to be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u9	Thank you to the voluntary rapporteur, please remain in your seat. Mr. Vice-President of the Kupka Club has another preferential right for the ODS club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, the Prime Minister has mentioned who has come. So I would just like to remind you that the first person to come was Professor Svoboda, when on 28 January last year he asked the then Minister of Health about the Chinese virus and its dangers. But I don't want to repeat all these steps here and mention the other 33 concrete proposals and measures that the ODS has come up with. I spoke here an hour ago about the reasons which led us, on the one hand, to the motion for a resolution which we tabled together and voted together, but I also put forward clear arguments as to why it is not possible to vote on the House's grounds for extending the emergency situation, which the House therefore voted on and issued a resolution on it in the Collection of Laws, and for that a resolution ending the unconstitutional emergency situation on 27 February of this year, or earlier if the pandemic law had taken effect earlier. 126 Members voted in favour of this resolution, i.e. Members of the current coalition. It's not like that's a tearing calendar we could be dealing with and say. So this is where the resolution was and it doesn't really apply anymore because we don't like it. We cannot vote in favour of extending the emergency situation contrary to this House resolution, by the way, adopted by more than a constitutional majority. This would only create other problems, which were also mentioned, serious problems of uncertainty with what the fate of a whole number of entrepreneurs will be, a whole number of citizens, who, for example, on the basis of a poorly constitutionally declared emergency state, will ask for compensation. This creates a very serious problem for the whole Republic. And we do not understand why, after the previous resolution, the Prime Minister will withdraw the motion for a revision of the resolution, but it will preserve the fundamental which says that we should extend the situation, which, in the opinion of many constitutional lawyers, is a truly unconstitutional, another unconstitutional step. Such making mistakes makes absolutely no sense, and if we are to look for a way out of the current crisis, that is the exact opposite way. That is why, of course, civil democrats cannot and will not vote for such an extension of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u11	Another priority right, Minister Schillerová. President Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the events of the last 12 months have hit life in our country in a dramatic way. What we have always considered normal and obvious, such as meeting friends, classmates, colleagues, has become rare or unavailable, and, on the contrary, what was foreign and unknown to us, such as covering our faces with masks and keeping our distance, becomes a common part of our lives. Hundreds of thousands of our citizens cannot go to work, children and students cannot go to schools and universities, theatres, cinemas, services and many shops are closed. Naturally, in such a situation, each of us has a lot of questions and concerns about how things are going to go. People's looks are rightly clinging to government and legislators, more than ever. I would therefore like to thank all of you who have temporarily succeeded in backgrounding your political worldview and helping to adopt laws and measures that, according to our best knowledge and conscience, have protected our citizens and helped them cope with considerable economic damage. I will not tell you that I am convinced of the correctness of each of the steps that we have taken in this turbulent time, but I certainly know that without the Members who supported the necessary state budget amendments, without Members and senators, who without hesitation supported government aid programmes, which have released more than 300 billion crowns, without you who have repeatedly supported the emergency situation, which has enabled us to take unprecedented measures operationally and thereby significantly slow down the spread of the coronavirus, our society and the economy would lose in the fight against the invisible enemy. I would therefore very much like one thing: that we do not throw this burden of responsibility, which we carry together irresistibly, into the junkyard of political competition. We can certainly agree that the main objective of our efforts is to slow down the spread of the virus in order to buy the time needed for the vaccination of the critical part of the population, as well as the time for those who are infected with the virus and the course of their disease to become light, to receive the necessary medical care. And only when we do will it be a good time to reckon with mistakes and failures. Of course, as each of us has contributed to this, it will evaluate citizens in the upcoming elections, but this is not important now. At this point, when the numbers of infected people are increasing, and unfortunately not only in the Czech Republic, when individual hospitals are achieving their capacity, we should not, in my deepest conviction, be rid of anything that will help us minimize the risk of further deterioration. Therefore, I appeal to you with an urgent request to give your consent to the extension of the emergency situation by the end of March. This is an exceptional opportunity to show that we are acting responsibly and wisely and that the protection of health and human life is at the top of our actions. I would like to assure you that the emergency situation is only justified for me in the event of an absolute emergency. Unfortunately, we all know that the current situation meets this attribute. How powerful weapons our country will have in its fight against a dangerous virus in the coming critical days now, without exception, depends on each and every one of you. I firmly believe that, as in most other countries in the world and in the Czech Republic, common sense and belonging to politics and possible disagreements will prevail. Our historic task is not yet finished, and we can only handle it together. Thank you for trying, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u13	I would just like to remind you - I wish you a good evening - because here I have a factual remark from Mr Marek Výborný, who does not listen to me, but I point out that there are no factual remarks. So I'm gonna erase you so you don't blame me. So I repeat once again that Mr Bartošek will speak with priority in the debate now, but I will just repeat, because I do not have the priority rights in the order that we have agreed, the House has agreed to speak for up to five minutes, the Member can speak twice and cannot make factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The reality is that this item did not have to be included in the parliamentary agenda today. This is a fact, because if the government found out the facts and circumstances suggesting that the situation had deteriorated, today the government could extend the emergency by 30 days by its will or at any time before its meeting. That, Prime Minister, is. Don't call this House to account. That's the responsibility of this government. You have the competence to do this, and what you're doing today is merely a manifestation of politics and your cowardice, because the government can declare an emergency under the law. When we spoke this week, I asked you for some information. My questions were factual, and I expected you to answer that during today's meeting because you didn't dispute that at the hearing. I asked you for information on the capacity of beds in the surrounding Germany and Poland offered by these countries, and for how long they were willing to hold these beds for us. In the same way, I asked you about the knowledge of the situation in hospitals and the workload, rather the overload of medical personnel, how the government will proceed at the moment when the hospital really gets to the edge of its capabilities and threatens that our health system will not be able to handle the strain of the sick. I asked what the government's plan is, whether it has additional capacity or will build capacity, whether it will reach other countries to provide us with medical personnel, as for example a few months ago, the US provided medical military personnel with us to cope with this situation. I asked you how the vaccination plan looks, when, what volumes are planned, when we can count on the vaccination to start in a big way. I wanted a delivery deadline and a plan, because that's the solution to the situation. You have not answered any of these specific questions. [[17.20 hours]] A number of experts at the Institute say it is questionable whether this emergency has been declared in accordance with the Constitution. I'm sure you're aware of that. If you wanted legal purity and did not put this republic at risk that the Constitutional Court will decide that this emergency situation is being declared contrary to the Constitution, and then there will be yet another legal confusion and a lot of compensation that the state will have to pay due to your inability and unwillingness to respect the law, then instead you come up with this emergency situation to extend. That, Prime Minister, is a disgrace. You don't honor the law, you don't honor the Constitution. And if you say, "We're going to declare an emergency on the government," you could have done that a long time ago. You don't need today's vote for that. You could have done that a long time ago. I want an answer from you on this. Why didn't you use your legal right for legal option and declare an emergency for another 30 days? This is an absolutely crucial question towards the government and towards you. I am convinced that all you want to achieve and what you said in your speech that you will go and explain to our citizens that those parties have left you in it, that they are not interested in caring for health and lives. And I'm telling you here, that's a lie. That's your alibi behavior you need to get into your agro-fermented press to manipulate the public. Because believe that we care about the Czech nation overcoming this crisis, to protect citizens and to provide them with enough quality and health care. What you're doing here is an expression of politics and your political cowardice. Shame on you, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u15	I now have one more priority right, that is, the chair of the People's Party, Marian Jurečka, and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. So you with priority rights, Mr President, are still unlimited. And then we'll start counting. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u16	Thank you. I confess that I was surprised that the government did not withdraw this point after we discussed the previous one, including the resolution adopted. We are extending the negotiations - you have already been able, Prime Minister, to sit with the government in negotiations, to prepare meaningful measures that we have been waiting for for for 4.5 months, and you could explain them to the Czech public and the people in this country in a clear way tonight. But tonight's performance, I'm only going to allow myself a slight reaction. You got out here and you listed how time went by, and you forgot the other side of the coin. You forgot when you were talking about the Czech tourists who went to Croatia, so say it too - and not accusing them that they were the only ones to blame - but also reminding that you looked into the crystal ball in August and you said that the crystal ball said that you had to go on vacation, that you were unbearable, and you went on vacation to Greece, or where you were on vacation. I wasn't on vacation last year, unlike your former advisor, I wasn't even on vacation this year, and I'm not going on vacation for a long time. My wife wasn't anywhere on vacation either, she teaches in second grade, brought home a covid from school, and she just works and works. We don't go to Dubai and stuff like that. So please, don't blame any other part of the nation for some things, and you'll forget to remind yourself where you and your family members were on vacation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u17	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak. Let me just remind you that the Chamber of Deputies voted to limit speaking time to five minutes. Any Member who does not have the right of priority may speak only twice. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say to the rapporteur that I propose a resolution on the immediate abolition of the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u19	Well, I'm gonna ask you to tell the rapporteur if that's the case... So it is short, the rapporteur already notes, so that we know what is being voted on afterwards. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u20	I would go back to what I was talking about last time, and I would point out that when you and Lubomír Volný are fighting, you don't argue with Lubomír Volný. You're guessing and disparaging the work of profesor MUDr. Jiří Beran, CSc. You argue and disrespect the work of Professor RNDr. Omar Šerý, . You are hádat with Professor MUDr. Vojtěch Thon, . You are hádat with Chief MUDr. Michal Rezk. You're arguing with Dr. MUDr Pavol Török, CSc. You're hádat with Madame Director MUDr. Andrea Letanovská, D You're hádat with Mr. Mgr RNDr. Emanuel Žďárský, CSc. You're hádat with Professor MUDr. Martina Vašáková, . You are hádat with Associate Professor Irena Koutná, . You are hádat with the winner of the Award of Czech Mensy for 2020 RNDr. Soňa Peková, D You're hádat with Professor MUDr. Martin Balík, . You are hádat with the Nobel Prize winner for HIV isolation by Luce Montagnier. And you're arguing with a double Nobelův Prize winner Linus Linus Pauling. Because from the mouth of Lubomír Volný, there was none of his personal unprofessional opinion in this debate. Only the opinions of these quoted personalities and professionals in the field were heard. Once again, we are proposing an immediate end to the emergency situation, and this vote will once again show who is who. Despite all the opposition games and efforts to get away from the opposition's approval of the pandemic law and the opposition's desire to have an emergency law here, and helping the government to do so, this vote on the immediate termination of the emergency situation will show your real position. Once again, we are proposing targeted measures, and I hope the Prime Minister will be smart enough to steal them from us. We propose that the 184 billion, which will at least go to the reps again this year or to replace entrepreneurs, be handed out as helicopter money, to all the people at risk. It's going to be 6,000 a month. Prime Minister, your senior voter group will rip your hands off you for paying them 12,000 a month for voluntary self-insulation and for buying all the money to cook in restaurants, bring groceries, stay home pretty safe. If you even create the system that Professor Beran proposes for them, that means safe going out and visiting, it will be perfect and your numbers will fall. I would also like, at last, an answer from both the Prime Minister and the opposition. How come you don't mind someone getting 25 billion, 75 percent of that maybe the Prime Minister, how come you don't mind? How come it's okay with the ODS, how come it's okay with the TOP 09, how come I'm the only one asking? How come I'm the only one asking here that maybe the Prime Minister is in the tens of billion crowns of interest, not 50 million? Who's gonna pick up the glove? When will the Prime Minister answer me and say clearly: Isn't that true? He can't say it. Can't he say it because it might be true and because maybe the COVID-19 investigation committee will find out? Isoprinosine, Ivermectin, it's a long story. We have approved experimental Remdesivir here in 14 days and now we approve experimental Bamlanivimab, 14 200 doses of 25,000 crowns, that's 300 million crowns - a perfect deal again, although this drug does not have 27 controlled groups of studies with more than 6,500 patients. It does not have 6 randomised controlled groups, it does not have 5 double-blind studies, just like Ivermectin has. You'll get all this information so you can't make excuses for not knowing. At least the Minister of Health has a duty to know this. Each study shows an extraordinary consistent and controllable positive effect in terms of reducing disease transmission, reducing the need for hospitalization and radical reduction of death. A study in Argentina was attended by 1,200 paramedics. 788 of them took Ivermectin once a week, not one of them got sick. In the control group of 400 doctors who did not take him, 58 percent were ill, the rest in the second appearance. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u21	Mr Radek Koten will now appear and Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared. Well, Congressman, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u22	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been quite an advanced time, so I am not going to over-extend it, but there are a few things that I need to discuss here. We're still asking for more and more time to take some precautions, or to have the government take some precautions, so she always asks for some new time to do something. But unfortunately, the measures that they are are not targeted, and unfortunately they have nothing to do with the fact that we would have those people who get covid or are covid positive, so that in some way we could treat them at all, that is, until they get to the covid ventilation unit. Then we start treating them, but it's too late. I would really argue here that the website of the Ministry of Health clearly discloses vitamin data that strengthens immunity, and secondly, for example, that there are several cited Isoprinosine, like in Poland, are freely sold, because in Poland there are far fewer cases with a difficult course, even if they have four times as many inhabitants as the Czech Republic, so since Isoprinosine is freely sold there, in addition, there are still Čech for it, there are far fewer cases that can get to the fan. We don't want those people getting on the ventilator. Just like Avigan or another name Favipiravir, antiviral medicines have been available since March or April of last year. What did the government do to be approved for the Czech Republic? This product has been produced for 20 years now, can be produced as a generic in our country and used by several hundred million people around the world, possibly billions. So why is this medicine not recommended for treatment in the Czech Republic? For covid treatment, it is extremely important that some treatment is made during the first symptoms. What are we doing here in the Czech Republic? Nothing. We're waiting to see if the condition gets worse so we can take these people to the hospital for a ventilator! That's completely wrong! We're here to defend and protect people who are in a vulnerable group, and those who actually get it somewhere, because we're still fighting some virus that isn't visible, we're still fighting, but he's never gonna disappear. He'll be here with us all the time. They're fighting windmills. So, for God's sake, are we gonna start treating these people or not? It's all over again. It's quite an interesting case from Bolivia. In Bolivia, which we could consider as one of the South American countries, so that it is behind us somewhat further, so we could consider it one of the developing countries, but still in Bolivia and the pharmacies sell a sealed package with different vitamins and medicines that take up covid. So if someone's positive, they'll go to the pharmacy, they'll buy it for 12 euros, and they can use it in peace. We don't have it here. There, even the Ministry of Health is not able to provide any data on its website at all, so that he can know about it sometimes. As regards vaccines. If anyone wants to get vaccinated, yes, but the government should provide enough vaccines. And what is it now? There's no vaccine! After all, we are ideologically focused on one side of the world here, and we cannot approve vaccines that are from the other side. Then how does Hungary do it? Interestingly, Hungary has vaccines, vaccinated, just like Israel, vaccinated with Sputnik and vaccinated with Chinese vaccine. And I didn't notice people dying in Hungary because they don't have vaccines. If anyone wants to inoculate, let him really have a choice and be vaccinated with a vaccine that he trusts. But even the government did not secure the vaccines that the EU was supposed to provide. I really don't understand. Are we gonna wait a long time, and there's gonna be a lot more people dead? We keep saying the foreign word lockdown. It's basically a lockdown. That means we're all supposed to be locked up here, including those people who should go to work, kids should go to school, kindergarten, and we should - thank you for your attention. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u23	I'm just gonna warn you, so I don't have to interrupt you during your speeches, so I'm just gonna point out that you have hours under your microphone. They're hidden under that counter where the newly installed digital clock subtracts your time, so you can time your performance so that when you've already voted for the restriction to make it look natural, that conclusion. So please, Mr Jan Jakob will now appear and prepare Mr Marian Bojko. I'm alerting you again for five minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as is my custom here, I will be brief and factual. I don't think I'm gonna run out of five minutes. Prime Minister, through Mr President, I am here one month and one week, and I must say that I have had enough. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] I didn't really expect anything like this, but I'm supposed to resign? No! I'm not supposed to resign. I think there are others who are supposed to resign because they've proven that they can't handle the year anymore and that nothing works here. I've been waiting here for nothing but absolute government cluelessness and total chaos. Prime Minister, through Mr President, if voters see this, you will not get a single vote in any election! And the chaos continues at this moment. Why? I don't get it, this bag guy. After all, we have just passed the pandemic law, we have approved a clear resolution that gives guidance on how to deal with this critical situation. Nobody's questioning the numbers that are scary. You're asking us now to extend the emergency, but I think it's unconstitutional twice. First of all, the emergency has obviously been declared unconstitutional. It is the submission of senators to the Constitutional Court and the municipal court has already ruled on this. For the second reason - The Chamber of Deputies is supposed to prolong the emergency situation after 30 days and they have not yet passed. I don't feel like I'm already convinced that you're making a ripping calendar out of the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I cannot vote in favour of extending the unconstitutional emergency situation. Put him on the constitutional path in the sense of the resolution for which you, Prime Minister, have voted a moment ago! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u25	Mr Marian Bojko will now appear and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. I'll let you know you have five minutes to perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to read a letter from an ordinary citizen, Mgr Michal Auro, who is completely opposed to an emotional expression or reading a letter from Mrs Valachová. Here I get 99 percent of these letters from angry and desperate people: "Dear ladies, gentlemen, I would like to believe that words such as freedom, equality, love, democracy still mean something and that in our democratic country there is still respect for the Constitution, respect for the fundamental charter of rights and freedoms," "respect for the rights of an individual, respect for a person, respect for a dignified life, that children have the right to a happy childhood, to a proper education, to a safe and healthy development. [[correctly Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms]] Unfortunately, not only in my opinion, what our government has been doing in the last year, those we ordinary people have employed to guide our country with the best conscience and intent, far from the above mentioned, causing more and more amazement and horror in me. I do not deny the presence of the COVID-19 virus, wherever it came from, nor do I deny that there are risk groups to which this virus may be dangerous, similar to many other viruses or bacteria, but these have never been dealt with by restricting human rights and freedoms, virtually shutting down human life. At first, when we didn't know exactly what we were facing, government orders were readily understood. On the contrary, I appreciate that the government started acting as one of the first to try to do something. There was no information, there was time pressure. During the year, however, we have become acquainted with the virus and we know a lot of objective facts. However, they are often distorted, withheld or denied directly. [[17.40 hours]] For example, we know what risk groups are, what are the means in treating or suppressing the symptoms that help, does not help to spread the virus, what is real mortality and so on. Whoever wants to find objective information has the option. What about you, the employees of our citizens, the government? In the name of supposed safety and health protection, you scare us with misleading and lying information, manipulated or twisted statistics, destroying people's lives with disproportionate, often illogical, senseless, discriminatory, and, above all, unwarranted regulations, restricting rights and freedoms. Grown-ups are being pulled away from the source of livelihoods, banned from working, earning, closing businesses, bringing people to ruin. You deny children the right to proper development and education, which you require, among other things. You put them under house arrest, forbid them to develop psychic, skill, and physical, cutting them off from their hobbies and friends, destroying their childhoods that no one will ever replace. You force them to use IT technologies that have a proven negative impact on proper personal development. What more? You threaten the health of our children and especially the health of children, which you force not only in school wearing masks, which has very negative health effects, which will be confirmed by every doctor and logical non-doctor. Why do you think the safety limits are set to CO2 concentration in the workplace? I myself know of three cases in the vicinity when a child collapsed in a mask, some repeatedly. A saleswoman collapsed in front of me after an hour and a half in a mask. Now you want to torture children with mandatory tests that they still have to carry out on their own, and make it conditional on school attendance. It already appears from the package leaflet for these tests that the result has virtually no validity, that it is not possible to determine whether the person really has a virus or not, whether it is dangerous or safe for his surroundings. Then what's the point of such testing? Can anyone give me a reasonable argument as to why to abuse a child with a test? But not only the child, but also the employees, to make access to a job that has no explanatory value? The point is I see one - sell as many tests as possible, collect as much money as possible. Yes, another one comes to mind: Bring even more panic and fear into frightened people, limit them even more, control them. As a parent, I'd have to be ashamed of myself if I just watched you not only want to torture my children. And in front of the kids, I'm ashamed of all of us adults, how we treat them, how we ruin their childhood, their health, how we abuse them and want them more, more: compulsory drapes in schools, testing. I will never understand how someone who has or has children can order or just approve such a thing. I really don't understand how you can live with your consciousness when you are destroying children's childhood and health, both physical and mental, with your unsubstantiated regulations. These children will suffer even by being all you committed on their shoulders, in the vast majority of unnecessary debt. You stop the economy, shut down people's lives, deny the right to decent life, freedom, and fundamental rights. The courts are already waking up and pointing out the legality and unconstitution of your orders and the declaration of emergencies. I don't understand how you can order and enforce something, and yet you yourself can break the law and the Constitution. Can you imagine how we look at you? It is a matter of time before the courts start to drop and make school attendance conditional on wearing drapes and testing. The thing you're preparing right now, I don't agree with it, and I'm going to fight it peacefully with a criminal announcement, as well as other parents who love and care about their children. But I realize that your wallets will not bleed, that they will only continue to increase the debts of those who are most beaten." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u27	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Lubomír Volný will now perform in his second speech and Mr Jiří Kobza will be prepared. [[Some Members respond to the attempt to disinfect the microphone: No! Member Lubomír Free: I will never get covid.]] Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u28	I want to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health whether they are dealing with Russia, Belarus, Cuba or perhaps now India about sending doctors and staff. At least Cuba and Russia are known for their humanitarian missions, their covid crisis is resolved. India has the richest experience with protocol on Ivermectin. So I want to know if you've approached them, whether you've given them an offer, or whether, for purely ideological reasons, you'd rather let your own citizens die in our hospitals, which I call murder again in this case. I would like to draw attention to my colleagues, who have a respirator, that they should not touch it first, and, secondly, to those who have a beard, that they have it for nothing. Because if you have a bearded respirator, you might as well take it off. Again, it's not Lubomír Volný, but it says the respirator manual. People won't behave like they did last March, Prime Minister. They won't. Not even the Rakušan act like that anymore, and not even the Němec act like that anymore. So, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Mr. Home Secretary, what's your plan B? What's your plan B? Because people won't listen to you anymore! These people don't trust you anymore. Because people already know that your "dog" was being built by a bunch of amateurs who had nothing to do with medicine. That there wasn't a single doctor, not one immunologist, in the compilation of the "dog. " That "dog" was compiled by people who did Ph.D. for nine years, so amateurs, stupid or lazy. Because I dare say as a gym teacher who has one thousandth of the intelligence of the červený trpaslík, I would have graduated from . in nine years. Isoprinosine, Ivermectin, Remdesivir, Bamlanivimab, this is the same example again. Do you know why this Bamlanivimab will be used in the Czech Republic if it is an experimental drug that is not known what side effects it will have? If the Minister of Health were here, he could tell you. It will be used because he allowed it. He's allowed it! And Prime Minister Babiš was doing a TV commercial today, with a single dose of 25,000, and all those doses will cost over 300 million. He online, making live advertising a drug that is experimental, which is not tested, does not have clinical tests, does not have a double-blind study. He didn't have a study involving 1,200 paramedics. It can't say that 788 of them who took it once a week never got sick and that 58% of those who didn't take it got sick. This is not in the Prime Minister's hands, nor is the Minister who authorized the use of this medicine. And the Prime Minister who put him on the air today. And then there's two medications, Isoprinosine and Ivermectin, but Mr. Babiš never did any commercials for them. He didn't even advertise them today. He said it was 30, 40 people. No! The patients in the studies are 6,500! And let me repeat, it's 27 controlled studies, of which six randomized and five double blinded. Anyone who claims anything else is lying. This is where the business for more than a quarter of a billion is being prepared, which was given the green light by the Minister of Health for YES and which the Prime Minister himself has been advertising on TV today. And once again I ask ODS, once again I ask TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN, Pirates. Where is your suspicion of conflict of interest when it comes to hundreds of millions or tens of billions? You got your briefcase, too, and that's why you keep your mouth shut? Are you guys bought, too? You also have a share of the money from the tests that you don't mind at all that the Czech scientific genius invented tests in this country that are twice as cheap, twice as fast, offered them to the Czech Republic for free, the Czech Republic rejected them and no one here cares? Only Volný and Bojko talking about it here? How much did you get? How much did you have in your briefcase?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u29	Mr. Jiří Kobza will now appear and prepare himself as the last Mr. Jan Hrnčíř. We have a request for technical hygiene. Please. [[It's a disinfectant break.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u30	Thank you, Mr President. When we stood here 14 days ago, we heard a supplication, give us 14 days, in 14 days we will solve everything, in 14 days it will be good, in 14 days everything will work out. I must say that I had already assumed with considerable skepticism that in 14 days we would hear the same thing as much, because I did not expect the situation to improve. But the fact is, it gets worse that way, even I didn't see it coming. And that is why I would like to ask - unfortunately, the Prime Minister is no longer here - what is his plan after those three weeks of lockdown, what will be the steps B, C, D, what will be the next development, what will follow, because people are asking us what will happen. They don't know what to do, what to prepare for, what to expect, and because they've mostly exhausted their reserves in the spring, I have to say the nervousness is pretty high. So that's my first question to the Prime Minister. And then I'm very glad that Secretary Schillerová is here, because I have one request for her, too. The question of compensation, of various programs, of different anti-covides, of antivirals, of anti-rents, and I don't know what it's all called, is so complex that the vast majority of people are completely ignorant of it, and therefore they have a very big problem getting to it because they are not professional companies that focus on vacuuming similar programs. So I wanted to ask the Minister if she would be so kind as to prepare a clear and very lapidar program or material about how these programs are actually being used and, above all, how they are being applied for and where. This program should then be cyclically broadcast by Czech Television, so that once in a while it is also useful to ordinary people, because otherwise many people really get to the marrow and we simply have to do something to help them. The first one is to explain to them how these compensations could even get to the way they exist, because there were so many changes, and they were so inconspicuous... I live in a village, so I know how people see it, and they can't get into it. So we need clear, lapidar instructions or tutorials that would go on television cyclically, and TV would broadcast it regularly to get to it by people who go on night shifts who go on afternoon shifts, on morning shifts, so that they can get to know it and ask for compensation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u31	Mr Jan Hrnčíř will now be the last to speak. I don't have another application. Please, Ambassador, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm making such a desperate attempt here. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to appeal to your common sense. It's been almost a year since we've had various restrictions, lockdowns, precautions. The situation in society is that it's like a volcano before an explosion. I appeal to you, don't make any more lockdowns, more lockdowns. Try to think, try to find a solution, because this isn't going anywhere. The damage to the mental health that is in society... I'm from Blanca, we've got a gulf there, Macocha. In the last three weeks, three people have jumped into that abyss. They're businessmen's failures. It's people's frustration. Please try to access the medicines, as I have already mentioned here today, which are cheap, tested, in practice proven to help with cod treatment and reduce mortality. So access them so that people can just work so they can protect themselves, no matter how defenseless they are against the covid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u33	Now with priority rights Vice-President of the House and subsequently Mrs Vostrá reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wouldn't get ahead of myself if I didn't have to drive in six minutes, so I'm taking the liberty of taking advantage of my authority. I would only like to respond to one thing that has been said here. It's not that we're not interested in any conflicts of interest that exist here. Of course we care. It's not just the $50 million in the Prime Minister's case after all. So our MP Lukáš Bartoň called on the Ministry to publish who is the real supplier of antigen tests to schools and to send a request for information last week. He got an answer today. We have a press release. The financial-analytical department of the Ministry of Finance confirmed to the media that the winner of the tender for delivery of nearly 4 million antigen tests to schools did not pay the Chinese test manufacturer an advance, and the case began to be investigated. The owner of the selected company and members of the government confirmed that the company had made the payment. At the same time, following the complaint of the Pirates registry court, the company published its accounts for 2019. It turned out to be a very small and indebted company at the same time. Minister Hamáček should immediately explain the outstanding advance and guarantee from the supplier that the tests will even arrive in the Czech Republic. At the same time, it should indicate who actually organises the supply of tests from the Chinese producer if the payer is an unknown person. This is how our pirate MP Lukáš Bartoň commented. The Ministry stated that for every day of delay, the supplier would pay a penalty of 1 million. This is not much, considering that only a day later, another candidate could deliver the tests and the state could save more than 50 million crowns. Well, I believe we're dealing with this thing. And I'd probably be done with that at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u35	Lady Miloslava Vostrá is the last to sign up. Madam, you have five minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u36	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say the position of our MP here. It's very simple, very lapidary. We didn't vote to prolong the emergency. We did not even vote in favour of the resolution that we discussed at the last meeting, or the termination of some kind of emergency state declared by the government on the instigation of the captains, which was due to end 27. Nor did our MP, like the SPD, support this, so we actually have nothing to vote on. In fact, from our point of view, no state of emergency is legitimately declared, and therefore there is no reason why we should prolong such a thing. So I want to say that Members of the KSČM Club will not support and will oppose an extension of the emergency situation, which is not from our point of view, because it was declared not in accordance with constitutional order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u37	Now I don't have another application. Let me see. Yes, Mr Marian Bojko, Mr. Marian Bojko, is reporting with a second speech. You have five minutes. Please. I'll give you the time, but there's someone here reporting for a factual remark. There are no actual notes, so I'm warning you, so I'm gonna smash you. Please, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd just like to finish this citizen's letter, Mgr. The Auro you've all been given. I don't know if you've read it, but I'm very interested in it and I'd like to read it: "The other thing that scares me is the so-called pandemic law. According to the various experts, there are sufficient rules to ensure that adequate hygiene measures are implemented now. I understand, therefore, that the pandemic law is merely to ensure that measures can be disproportionate. When I read it, I couldn't help but wonder. Practically one ministry could, even in the event of a mere suspicion of a possible epidemic, theoretically for an unlimited period, deny people fundamental rights and freedoms, ban and command whatever they want under the threat of drastic and liquidation fines. A separate chapter is also a tracking application. Such a law restricting human rights and freedoms was not even here in times of greatest totalitarianism. As a result, the pandemic law, with regard to restrictions on freedom, is much worse than the emergency situation that we have had for some time unconstitutionally. I am truly sad, and I am appalled at the steps of government that she has been able to commit and prepare. One thing is clear from these unsubstantiated steps: the government is no longer concerned with protecting the small endangered group of people, the old and sick people, who are threatened not only by covid, but by any other flu disease. The lives of millions of people are being destroyed. I don't count those who profit from the whole covid hysteria. [[18.00 hours]] Recently, it is evident that the government is clueless and is aware of the opposition not only of the people, but also of the justice and media that have stood by it so far. She's kicking more and more under pressure to get us on her shoulders as soon as possible so she can control us indefinitely, the pandemic law, which means she's enslaved us. Why? In conclusion, I will point out that I have encountered the COVID-19 virus. It was owned by a wife and one of the children, in a different time than my wife maybe even myself, although without symptoms, parents over the age of 70, most of my friends, someone without symptoms, someone light to middle course, minimally harder course with fevers. Like every year, it used to be flu, anginas and rhymes. I don't feel like a risky patient, yet I can't say that I won't catch the covid and that I can't die from it. Even if I were a risky patient, do you think I would want more than 99.5 percent of people to suffer because of me? I'm clear on that. The government and the people should not be separate groups, but they should cooperate and respect each other. The government consists of ordinary people who are temporarily paid by others to do so in the interests of the ordinary, those who pay them, and not to fight them. Employees must explain their actions to their employers sufficiently and conclusively; they must not do anything that is illegal, unconstitutional, which would for no reason restrict anyone's freedoms and rights. If this is not the case, we cannot talk about democracy, a free country. The mandate of everyone employed in government will end one day, and then he too will be on the side of employers, and then he too can bear the unfortunate consequences of his decisions. Finally, one question: How far do you want to escalate this? You've kept us chained up and muzzled for a year. You've shut down the economy, destroyed the lives of thousands of entrepreneurs, businessmen and their families, and more and more. You've ruined at least a year of childhood for children that will no longer be replaced. You've psyched millions of people. What else? How many more people do you want to ruin? For a year, you've been forcing us drapes to say they're useless, and you're gonna put us on respirators. In a year, it's gonna be gas masks and antichemical suits? Of course, for a few chosen ones who will be able to leave their residence, others will sit in chains at home or at the factory, where will they be transported under strict supervision once a week? We'll all be chipped and monitored so that someone doesn't leave the apartment without permission, see the surveillance app in the pandemic law? Do you really want to give such a life to your children and subsequent generations? I invoke your conscience. Don't make us and our children slaves! Do not approve of the steps that would lead to this. Don't torture our children. Consider all regulations carefully and carefully justify them. Do your job, for which you are paid, lead our country to a better tomorrow. Thank you to all those who have read all the way here and have come to know the views, free opinion may still be allowed in this country, one of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. Respectfully, Mgr Michal Aur." I would like to add that the Prime Minister recently said that there is no more flu, it is just covid, and whoever has a temperature just has to go to the hospital. For me, it's just complete crap, from a biological point of view, it's literally impossible. There's no homecoming treatment. If you call the doctor and tell him you have a fever. So take care of the acylpyrin, and if you can't breathe, call an ambulance. So that's the only treatment our paramedics are running here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u39	I'll look around the O.R. now. Mr. Dominik Feri. Please. Probably a priority right, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u40	I'm supposed to get a haircut, I'd like to do that, but when the hair salon opens. I hope it's very soon. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister said in his opening speech: we need an emergency. That's what the government's supposed to say to each other. If he needs an emergency, he's supposed to declare it. That would be right, that would be in line with constitutional order. After my trial, if we make a statement about this motion, and I think it would be best not to vote on it at all, then we legitimize it. At this morning's meeting, I told the Minister and the members of the government present that the government's declaring its own new emergency situation gave her the opportunity to get out of this hugely complicated situation, which she was in bypassing the House and its control power. We have come to the government as a whole House very much in the sense that we have adopted a resolution that is very important and which says that the House, when the government announces a new emergency today, is maintained its control power, simply that we are not hugging, that we have expressed our views on this. And I'd like the government to take advantage of that. It would be solid if we did not vote on this point, because this emergency situation is under way in the Constitutional Court, extending it is a really big risk, and I discourage you from voting in favour of it. It's wrong. Let me just mention one more thing that's been going on in the last five days. They've been talking about a lockdown for about five days now, and members of the government are feeding it. There's always one suggestion: the county, 20 kilometers, one kilometer, and these people are getting more and more stressed. I thought the times were over here, times of chaos, communication through the media, and creating another panic in society. If the government had withdrawn this point, it could have already acted and could have finally built up what measures will apply. But for five days, we keep saying there's gonna be something, but we don't know when, we don't know who, we don't know what regime we're gonna be operating in. That really brings us back a year in that government communication that I thought had improved, but it doesn't seem like it at all. We cannot support this proposal because we would legitimize what we consider highly unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u41	Mr Marek the Výborný has yet to come forward. You have five minutes. Please, you have the floor. It's the last application so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll just take a minute. Dear government, don't be mad at me. I've had enough of this. I'm going to a friend's funeral tomorrow, who died this week on a covid, and I just got a text saying another person from ours died - a friend. And we've been working for three hours completely unnecessary on something where you could already sit on government, agree on the rules, in a clear way, as the Prime Minister said right, explaining it to the public, and not hiding here alibistically behind the House, just like my colleague Feri said right now. The Prime Minister, who, unfortunately, is a coward and wants to hide alibistically behind the House by extending some kind of emergency. That's all. We didn't have to spend two hours here in this way. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u43	I look around the O.R., I don't see any more applications for the general debate. I am therefore ending the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The Prime Minister, possibly the rapporteur? The final word is not, so we will now proceed to the vote on the proposed resolutions. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. I will give the rapporteur the floor because we have two motions for resolutions. I have an idea, but I'll leave it to your proposal, or I'll make a statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u44	I have an idea, too, so let's see if we can meet. In fact, here we have the original motion for a resolution, which was sent to the Members, from which part was withdrawn, the part about the revision with the...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u45	Vice-President, I'm begging you: could you speak directly into the microphone? I can barely hear you through that drape up here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u46	Sorry, okay. I'll be louder. I'll try to speak with an outside voice. So here we have two proposals, as has already been said. The first one is the original government proposal, from which the first part of the review was withdrawn, and wants the House to give its consent to the continuation of the emergency situation, where the House has already decided when the emergency situation will end, and it has come out in the Collection. Likewise, there is a counter-proposal by Mr Volný, who proposes immediate cancellation of the emergency situation, which means immediate termination of the situation, which the House has already decided when to cancel, and came out in the Collection when to cancel it. I believe that both of these proposals are unvoted, but I understand that there will be different opinions. So I would suggest a procedure - whether we say the proposals are unvoted or I propose a procedure such that, of course, we will vote on the counterproposal first, then on the original or modified proposal, with first being approved by the procedure, asked for approval of the procedure, and I think it would be best if we did not approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u47	If I understand correctly, I don't think we're going to vote that it's a non-voice... Mr. Chairman KSČM Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not often do this, at most once every millennium, but this time I agree with the previous speaker that the two proposals are unvoted. In our opinion, there is nothing to vote on, so the KSČM club will not vote on the procedure either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u49	Vice-President, do I understand that you are proposing to vote that the proposals are unvoted?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u50	That's one option, I wasn't so radical, but I'd let it vote. The second option is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u51	Well, I'm gonna ask you, suggest a procedure, because it turns out to me that you're telling us that in your opinion, the proposals are unvoted. I'd like to vote on the procedure. In my opinion...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u52	In my opinion, the proposals are unvoting. Of course, we can first vote on whether the proposals are voteable. Then, if the House recognizes that they are voteable, vote on the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u53	Before I give the floor to the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, my original proposal was that I had thought about two motions for a resolution. From the logic of the matter, in my opinion, the Member should be Volný because he is ending something now, and the second proposal should then be an extension. That was my proposal, but I will give the floor to Mr Marek Benda of the Constitutional and Legal Committee to decide on this procedure as a House. Oh, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u54	I think the rapporteur has given his opinion that the proposals are unvoted. Either the President of the Chamber of Deputies will identify himself with this position, or he may object to this position. Of course, each of the Members has the right to protest, but the rapporteur has suggested that the proposals are unvoted, then there is nothing to vote on. Such a position would have to be protested by the House, which I am almost certain will not pass, but of course any Member can give it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u55	So I would identify with this procedure, which was designed by our forefather of the chamber. [[Laughter, applause.]] I would say that the proposals are unvoteable, and therefore we have nothing to vote on at the moment if no one was against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u56	The President of the House of Radek Vondráček will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u57	Thank you for the floor. I, knowing the seriousness of any vote in this honored chamber, would like to hear a better explanation of why this is unvoting. The Government's proposal has come. We are moving in mode § 109 m) and we should decide. Let me just remind you that there is also a position that if we vote on extending the emergency situation, this vote already actually contains a decision to cancel the previous cancellation. It is one of the legal opinions that has been expressed today during the debate, and I assume that the government is also based on this legal opinion. And if we vote on an extension, we'll also deal with the vote that was, and now I'm not gonna tell you exactly the date, but the last time we extended it to 27. In any case, if we come to a point where I have to object to the President's procedure, if he considers it unvoteable, then in that case I object and suggest that we really vote on it and as the House, as the lower chamber, to vote on it, not to say that something is unvoteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u58	There you go. So I have - for the first time in three years there is an objection to me. To let me vote on her again... well, then I got into the gearing. [[Laughter.]] I don't even know how I got it. [[Laughter.]] Please, the rapporteur suggests that this is unvoting. So, according to the rapporteur's proposal, I would have to reflect this here in some way, but there has been an objection, so we will have to vote on the objection that there is an objection that I would, therefore, put it on the rapporteur who proposes that it is unvoting. So do we know what we're going to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u59	I think we're going to vote on objection to my procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u60	No, no, no. It is that you, as rapporteur, Mr Vice-President, have said that this is unvoting. So I would have to say the thing you said: it's unvoting. So we would essentially end up here, which means whatever I think about it, and now we're against - so I'm saying that I would say, on your proposal, that it's unvoteable. That is the opposition of the President, and of the objection to me that I said it was unvoteable, we will now vote. [[Let's hear it.]] But I was -- I'm saying I'm completely innocent. [[Laughter.]] Initiating vote. Who's to object to me saying that? In line with what the rapporteur has said, so I will also object to myself. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 155 Members registered, for 84, against 59, the objection was accepted. I'm gonna ask you for the procedure. I suggest it's in the way I presented it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u61	Yes. In that case, the House has decided that it considers it to be voteable at this point, and I will, of course, respect that. Therefore, we will first vote on the counter-proposal, which he says, proposes immediate cancellation of the emergency situation and then on the original modified proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u62	Well, that's -- we're going to be about the procedure, now the rapporteur has proposed a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u63	If there is an interest in approving this simple procedure, of course there is no problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u64	We'd better vote for the procedure. Do I hear knocking? [[From the O.R. No. Laughter.]] Well, I heard the knocking well. So if you don't? [[Laughter.]] So can I start the vote? Isn't there anyone against it? Initiating vote. So who's in favour of this procedure? Who's against this procedure? Voting number 12, registered by 156 Members, for 112, against 10, procedure accepted. Then please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u65	Okay, in that case, we will now vote on Mr Volný's proposal, which is an immediate cancellation of the emergency situation. I do not know if it is necessary to formulate this in the exact form of a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u66	If he's okay with it, we'll vote on it. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 157 Members signed in for 27, against 80, the proposal was rejected. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u67	Thank you. And so now we will vote on the original revised government proposal, which says the House agrees to extend the emergency situation. I don't have the exact wording on me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u68	I got it. I'll read it. To put it exactly, the Government proposal that we will now vote on is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period for a period ending on 31 March 2021'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 153 Members registered, for 68, against 45. I am of the opinion that the proposal has not been approved. Do we have any other resolutions? We don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u69	No, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u70	I'm done with this point. I will therefore begin the next item in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, or I will wait for Vice-President Pikal to replace me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-003-003.u71	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to continue, and this is the next point, which is point four, which is
