ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u1	32. Proposal by Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others to issue a law amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended /house print 652/ - second reading I ask that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Well, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly present to you some of the basic intentions and objectives of our proposal to amend the law on aid in material distress. The main ones are, in particular, the removal or at least the absolute minimization of the various forms of abuse of benefits of aid in material distress, the setting of clear, unambiguous, fair and enforceable rules for drawing them up, the strengthening of the supervisory powers of labour authorities and the creation of a space for the application of a system of rapid and sensitive sanctions for persons who abuse our social system in various ways. The set of these proposals also means strengthening the effective instruments of the state to combat various sociopathological phenomena in our society, which we can see in concentrated form, and with all the negative consequences, for example in excluded localities. Our proposal was created in close and intensive cooperation with experts from practice, whom I thank very much for their professional and effective assistance. I personally appreciate it very much. We want, as a SPD movement, that state aid in a material emergency in the future become a means of basically only for those life situations where, for objective reasons, its beneficiary or applicant cannot temporarily obtain income from his own work or business, or when his low income is not enough to cover his basic needs for his and his children. The current legislative, procedural and institutional setting of mechanisms and practices in this area of social benefits makes it possible, in many respects, to be non-discriminatory and purposeful, and often actually unstoppable. It is therefore necessary to make changes in the law that would put an end to this situation, or limit it to the maximum, not to mention the significant savings of public funds that would bring about these proposed changes. We are concerned with increasing the address of the payment of these social benefits in terms of limiting the scope of their beneficiaries only to persons who have temporarily found themselves in difficult life situations and in actual material distress and who are actively trying to get out of these situations by themselves. Here it is quite appropriate when the state gives them a helping hand, as well as old-age pensioners and disabled persons. There is also the social assistance of the state at its disposal. Our proposal contains and brings seven specific changes. For one thing, it is possible to exclude from the scope of the recipient of benefits in material distress from a person who does not fulfil the obligations of the legal representative of the child, associated with the compulsory participation of the child in kindergarten during the last year of preschool education. Furthermore, we would like to grant the employment office the power to exclude persons who have infringed the temporary incapacity for employment due to sickness or accident. Thirdly, we want to give the possibility to exclude from the scope of the recipients of benefits of assistance in material distress and from the very territory of persons in material distress those who persist in their incapacity for work, or in the temporary incapacity regime, from the scope of employment because of sickness or accident, even after the expiry of the period which is equal to the maximum period of support for the possession of sick workers and businessmen, i.e. 730 consecutive days. The fourth amendment is the simplification and acceleration of the procedure, the exclusion of certain entities from the circle of so-called co-examined persons if they do not fulfil the relevant conditions and if this fact is demonstrated without doubt. Furthermore, it is a exclusion from the circle of so-called jointly assessed persons of those citizens who do not grant any income, work, do not do business or actively seek work. The sixth amendment is the introduction of an obligation to include, among the income provided for in the application for benefits in material distress, the income from foster care benefits in those cases where it is foster within the family and direct related relationships. And the last, seventh amendment is to simplify and tighten the process of removing or reducing the benefit of assistance in material distress, or rejecting an application for such a benefit if the beneficiary or the applicant does not allow the labour office to enter the residence and control or social investigation at the place in order to verify the facts relevant for the entitlement to the relevant social benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, since the first reading of this proposal last spring, I have worked hard on its form, for example in terms of its refinement and enlargement. I would like to thank my colleagues Marek Novák, Hanka Aulickáý Jírovcová, Jana Pastuchová, Dr. Plzák, and I would also like to thank Honza Bauer, Alena Gajdůškovášková and many others for helping me in this work. The result of this work is the creation of a comprehensive amendment to our original draft, which will be introduced here in a moment by Mr Marek Novák. I would also like to appreciate the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has been involved in this work in the last period of time, for which I also thank them very much. And I beg you to support him in his next readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u3	So that was Lucie Šafránková. The proposal was first ordered by the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports and to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 652/2 to 8. [[The President shall be alerted to the absence of ministers in the Chamber.]] Yes, it's true, we don't have a minister here, so I'm gonna put out a five-minute break for one of the ministers to show up. I therefore call on the government parties to ensure the presence of at least one minister at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So the break is until 14.43.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u4	Time's up, I've got some information that the secretary's headed for, like, two more minutes? How do you see it? Three more minutes? Three. So, due to the permanent absence of the Prime Minister, I'm putting out a three-minute break, so until 14.46. [[The sitting is suspended at 14.44 p.m.]] Hello, can you turn on my mic? Yes. Please, I'd ask the technical background not to turn off my mic, this is where you turned off my mic without my knowledge. [[With a smile:]] That would've been a little different, the shut-down. We would have found ourselves here without communication. Madam Secretary is, but I've announced a break until 14.46, so we'll hold out, we'll have to hold out until 14.46 hours. [[The meeting continued at 14.46 pm.]] Okay, time's up, we have the minister, so let's get on with it. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 652/2 to 8. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u5	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I will be very quick. At the 55th meeting of the Social Policy Committee on 9 September 2020, a resolution was adopted on the proposal of Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, House Press 652: "After the opening words of the representative of the group of petitioners, Mrs Lucie Šafránková and the report by Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and after the debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the proposal of Members Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala etc., House press 652, as stated in the adopted amendment; 2." - there is a change in effectiveness, but as we know, it will be clarified in other amendments to be tabled by Mr Novák - 'and empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u6	Thank you. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Karel Rais, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, take up the floor and inform us of the discussion of proposals and of any possible amendments. I will therefore ask Mr Jaroslav Kytýr. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Public Administration Committee addressed this House's press at its meeting on 10 September 2020, followed by a resolution delivered to Members as House Press 652/6. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 40th meeting following the reasoning of the draft by Mr . Pavel Jelínek, D, and following the news report presented on behalf of Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, Mr Jaroslav Kytýr and following the debate, he adopted a resolution by which: 1. Recommends the Chamber of Deputies to discuss and approve 652/0 in the submitted text; 2. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. This is from the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u8	Now I ask if anyone is interested in the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, I have it here if anyone wants to inform us. But we won't force anyone. I am now opening up a general debate, and I have Mr Marek Novák on it. Please. Mrs Eva Fialová will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you and at the same time ask for the support of the amendment by Marek Novák, Lucie Šafránková, Alena Gajdůšková, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Jan Bauer, Jana Pastuchová, Lenka Dražilová, Eva Fialová, David Kasal, Karel Rais and Věra Procházková on the proposal by Members of Lucie Šafránková, Tomio Okamura, Radim Fiala and others on the issue of Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, House Press No. 652, which is registered in the system as House Document 7034. This proposal follows and specifies the proposed amendment by Lucie Šafránková and others, which aims to avoid overuse of social benefits, to set clear parameters and procedures so that the system cannot be abused by persons or even groups of persons. First of all, I would like to thank you for the fact that the amendment itself was released for second reading by a large majority of your votes on June 5. In the following minutes, I will introduce you to the main points of the amendment. However, first of all, I would like to briefly summarize the emergence of our comprehensive amendment. [[14.50 hours]] Following the first reading of the original parliamentary proposal by Mr Šafránková, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs was told that he was working on a comprehensive amendment so that the Ministry would remove the alleged defects contained in the proposal. Since by the end of June the Ministry was not willing to live up to its word, we agreed across the political spectrum together with Lucie Šafránková and we processed a comprehensive amendment. These were intensive work during the summer holidays, when we traveled the whole Republic, they consulted experts and workers of the Office of Labour. The result was a comprehensive amendment adopted by the Committee on Social Policy on 10 September 2020. It was a big surprise for us that the Ministry, having found out that Members were working on the proposal themselves, had worked very quickly on its proposal, which came out of the findings of the members of Novák and Šafránková, although they had previously refused to cooperate with us! He also submitted this proposal to the Social Policy Committee and he did not accept it at his meeting. Dear friends, only at this moment, after three months of intensive work, have we finally agreed with the Ministry that we will work on a joint proposal. For us is the key future, the justice of the social system, and ultimately the increase in working capacity. For these reasons, too, we agreed to the Ministry's offer and began to cooperate on the final refinement of the bill. What I regret and still regret is that thanks to these peripetia, we have wasted our time. The complex amendment itself contains over seven dozen changes, which I will now describe to you. In the law on aid in material distress, we propose the following. We add exceptions according to which persons are excluded from assistance in a material emergency in the event of a sanctioned expulsion due to a breach of the temporary incapacity regime of a jobseeker to fulfil their obligations in the event of sickness or injury. Similarly, when excluding persons from material distress, we propose to proceed with those who are not job seekers, but their health is consistent with the state of temporary incapacity for work. In other provisions, as opposed to the existing arrangements, we supplement the detailed rules applicable to job applicants and to persons who are not job seekers and who are currently not in compliance with the disability regime. Last year, the infringement was found in a total of 26.08 percent of the checks. As in the case of employment, a candidate for employment at the Labour Office may provide evidence of the reason why the infringement occurred, such as a check at a medical facility. In such a case, there will be no exclusion from the register of job applicants. The proposal further specifies the conditions under which a person is not in material distress unless he increases his income by his own action. These are persons who have not exercised their claims, claims or property. This already works in current practice, but these circumstances need to be clearly defined in that provision. It is not quite clear in practice today when a person is considered self-employed for the purposes of entitlement and the amount of benefits of assistance in material distress. We therefore propose that a self-employed person is considered to be a person who has not interrupted or ceased his self-employment. Furthermore, we propose extending the range of persons who may be excluded as recipients of benefits of assistance in material distress due to failure to fulfil the obligations of the legal representative of the child associated with the proper performance of compulsory schooling, as well as those who do not fulfil these obligations in relation to compulsory pre-school education. We believe that, and this is also confirmed by experts, that the last year of pre-school education is crucial for the healthy development of the child and its integration among peers. We cannot support behavior that leads to children being excluded from this education for no reason. The next item is the proposal that the period of incapacity be extended from three to six months, even if the dose is not only rejected for these reasons, but also rejected. In the event of any non-cooperation, the applicant shall not be considered as a person in material distress for a period of six months. A period of six months is already applied in practice in cases where a person does not exercise his rights, claims or property. Thus, only these deadlines for a system of assistance in material distress are settled. In addition, it is left in these cases to the administrative discretion of the Labour Office, where a person may continue to be regarded as a person in material distress, provided that this is justified by specific circumstances. In order to take into account the pandemic situation, we then propose to help seniors not to account for the pension income of 80 per cent for the benefits of aid in material distress, but only of 70 per cent, i.e. as employment income is counted. We do not see why the seniors should be penalized for creating values and paying taxes throughout their lives in this country. The original paragraph relating to income for adequate housing costs is deleted. The provision is confusing for practice, it concerns only income for adequate housing costs for a living allowance. For the purposes of entitlement and the amount of the subsistence allowance, the Act on the Life and existential Minimum is enshrined, which is sufficient. We also introduce new provisions to prevent situations where, for example, a compulsory person pays child support in a court-appointed amount and also contributes a certain amount of money to the education or extracurricular activities of the child. For example, one example may be the payment of the summer camp. According to the current wording of the Life and existential Minimum Act, this income would reduce the amount of benefits. As we believe this is a disproportionate measure, we propose the possibility of administrative discretion not to take such income into account. We can't punish children for their parents wanting to improve their lives. [[15.00 hours]] This measure will also create scope for the Authority's administrative discretion in emergency situations, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, when it has been proven in practice that this discretion needs to be enshrined in the law. At present, this discretion is only adjusted for the exercise of claims, claims and assets. The proposal, which concerns the non-calculation of income among students, is aimed at their motivation to complete education with compulsory practice. At present, children's income at the time of study is accounted for by their parents for the amount and entitlement to benefits of assistance in material distress. This leads to a reduction or withdrawal of benefits for the whole family, which is then blamed on the child's family and this demotivates the child in education and compulsory practice or brigade. We specify the concept of a substantial decrease in income, because at present this term is interpreted more or less methodically and in places disunified. A substantial decrease in income according to our proposal will occur if there is a reduction or loss of income by at least one third, which is also an interpretation of current majority practice. It must also be a reduction or loss of recurring income, not merely a reduction in one-off performance. In the case of increasing the income of work, we add that a person must continue to be active in finding employment if he is to increase the scope and intensity of his work or perform better paid work. Cooperation in social work with municipalities in the delegated field is also added for the efforts made to increase the income of their own work. We believe that this will contribute to better involvement of applicants for benefits in society and to their greater social responsibility. It is specified exactly what the certificate of incapacity for work should look like for persons who are not insured with sickness and therefore do not have a regular disability. It is based on an established practice and the regulation is taken over by the Employment Act. Furthermore, in connection with this amendment, the obligation to submit to an examination of the state of health and to issue a medical examination report with the contractual provider of health services designated by the Regional Branch of the Labour Office shall be added, at all times at the call of the Regional Branch of the Labour Office. The obligation to comply with the disability scheme for the purpose of benefits of assistance in material distress is also added. Here we clearly define the concept of incapacity for work for the purpose of benefits of assistance in material distress. This provision includes persons who are not candidates for employment and persons who have been excluded from the employment applicant's register because of a breach of the sickness or accident disability regime. In addition, we propose further measures to help the elderly. A provision shall be deleted in which it is enshrined that, if a person receives a pension, the amounts paid must be refunded for a living. This procedure is hardly used in practice. On the contrary, it poses problems, both in administrative proceedings and in the view and criticism of seniors. The abolition of this measure will not affect either positive or negative on the state budget, but will save unnecessary administrative work and burden. Newly, it will be possible to reduce the amount of the subsistence allowance if the person applying or receiving this allowance is judged in a material emergency together with other persons. These are cases where one of these persons is not considered a person in material distress or is not an authorized person. The amount of the subsistence allowance is thus newly fixed without the full amount of the subsistence allowance allocated to that person. The situation is clarified where the long-term beneficiary of the subsistence allowance does not fall to the existential minimum within its amount of subsistence. This is a situation where the beneficiary is profitable and is also required to receive income from this activity. We also specify the conditions for increasing the amount of living to take account of cases where a person is employed but has only a lower period of time and does so-called cheap work. To increase the levy, they must seek to increase the scope and intensity of their gainful activity or to carry out better paid work. If this is not the case, this person will not be increased by 40 per cent of the difference between life and existential minimum. At present, it is true that a person has a low job, and although he is offered a higher job, he does not accept the offer, the amount of living does not change for that person. The dose thus remains high from our point of view. The proposed measure will respond to the previous example by reducing the amount of living. This will clearly motivate the recipient of benefits to make their lives better. We adjust the provision of a supplement for housing in apartments whose current condition is not suitable for permanent housing of persons. These are mainly apartments that have so-called historical housewarming, but their owners do not care about their maintenance, and these apartments are currently inhabited, devastated or hygienically unsuitable. In order to avoid payment of the benefit to non-compliant housing areas, we propose to explicitly adjust the basic standards for housing for the apartment for which the benefit will be provided. On the basis of this measure, the benefit will only be granted to an apartment currently suitable for housing. This term "suitable' introduces the proposed law for the purposes of assessing basic housing standards, and only an apartment complying with the statutory conditions will be considered as suitable for housing. Some conditions will be able to be evaluated directly by the Labour Office and to some evaluations, such as hygiene conditions or construction-technical requirements, the Labour Office will be able to request the opinion of other bodies or offices responsible for evaluating these facts. It is therefore clearly declared that the aid granted by the State through the levy will be granted exclusively in such areas as meet at least minimum hygiene and technical standards for permanent housing and do not suffer from defects which may endanger its residents' health or even life. The suitability of the apartments will be demonstrated primarily by the declaration of the application for an additional housing payment. In the event that the remedy is not negotiated within the prescribed time limit, the person shall lose the right to the housing benefit from the fourth month following the date on which the time limit for the remedy has expired. At the same time, the continuity of cooperation between the competent municipal authorities and the authorities of the OSPOD aims to address specific cases not only by means of sanctions in the form of withdrawal of the levy, but also by means of assistance in dealing with their housing situation, or the removal of such persons from inappropriate housing. The calculation of the amount of the housing supplement is tightened in a situation where the person judged jointly is not a person in material distress. The procedure under the control rules shall be excluded and the authorisation of the Labour Office shall be provided to check compliance with the insolvency regime of persons who are not candidates for employment. Another measure is the change in local jurisdiction in the procedure for granting benefits. According to our proposal, the new local jurisdiction would be primarily in the territory of the office where the person actually lives, not where he resides. This would eliminate the need for commuting to a frequently remote office or a lengthy request process at the local competent authority. As regards the amendment to the State Aid Act, here are the implications of the housing aid measures, and I would like to mention them. This is, for example, an adjustment of the heading of the persons considered together for the purpose of allocating and calculating the housing allowance. An example of the imperfections of current legislation can be the situation in which two groups of persons who are together live in one apartment. This is what we are dealing with in the proposed amendment. Another life situation that the proposal responds to is the birth of a child to unmarried parents. In the event of their breakup, it is appropriate to adjust directly in the law that a minor dependent child will be judged with the parent in custody. In such cases, where custody is decided by a court, there would be sometimes difficult evidence of the failure to conduct a common household of these parents. [[15.10 hours]] Criticised are situations where the beneficiary of the housing allowance or one of the jointly assessed persons owns another housing unit, which he can use for cheaper housing, or to increase income by renting them. Since some of the owners of the apartments or properties in which the rented apartments are located are not willing to submit a bill of advance payment for the services, even after repeated notification by the eaters of the housing allowance, nor at the call of the employment office, we propose that we continue to make provision for the housing allowance. The adjustment of the income of self-employed persons is also changing. Given the number of changes involved, since it is 72 paragraphs in the original version of the amendment, we propose divided effectiveness, however, in the following wording of the amendment, we propose that the effectiveness be postponed further, given how long this law is being discussed, threefold from 1. 1. 2022, from 1. 7. 2022 and from 1. 7. 2025. This effectiveness is subsequently presented in the Houses of Press 7374. I will then sign up for both prints in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u10	Now with a point of fact. I have two factual points here. First of all, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will appear and prepare for Mr Roman Sklenák's de facto Member. So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to ask my colleague Novák, which is why I am waiting for him to have the opportunity to listen to me, so I wanted to ask you a question where I see it as understandable and understandable and also the right intention to ensure that children go to school. And I understand that the tool is made up so that if they don't go to school, we'll take their parents' benefits away, which will motivate them to send them there. But I want to ask you how this proposal solves the problem of a parent trying to get a kid into school, but a kid doesn't go there because he skips school and stuff. Which is also often the problem from the experience I have encountered, that there is often more problem on the part of children than on the part of parents, or let's say it's some lifestyle in excluded localities. And how do you want to deal with the situation of parents who, in good faith, are trying to get children into school, but don't go there, and thus punish both parents and siblings and others? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u12	Another factual point, Mr Roman Sklenák. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u13	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, at this point I do not want to comment on the material, nor on what Mr Novák has read here. I'm just gonna ask if my colleagues can keep their voice down here in front of the pitch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u14	Then I'll ask the House for peace! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u15	Thank you, because I happen to want to speak to you as well. I consider the way in which this second reading is discussed to be not entirely correct. There have been some unwritten rules here in the last parliamentary term, and I think it would be good to get back to them. One of those rules was that if we changed the agenda for the meeting, we always changed the agenda for the next day -just for the simple reason when one prepares for the meeting to make sure that at least the day he comes here knows what will be discussed. This point has been included today and I respond to Mr Novák, I fulfil the condition of factual comment. Because he, among other things, at the outset, commented on the activities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, what they did, how they worked together. And where's the secretary so she can respond to that? Secretary Schillerová asked me, by the way. Well, he's not here because he's got a different program and we put it in a few hours ago. Remember, we have 502 points in the program. The current meeting has 502 points. There's no way to be prepared for 502 points and wait for a majority here created to make a move on that day. So my request to all of you: please let us return to practice that we will always change the program at least one day in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u16	Now a factual point, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u17	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. By your means, I would like to respond to a colleague of the Sklenák. I have to stand up for the SPD's petitioners here, because the proposal was made yesterday, it failed, and therefore, it is perfectly logical, it was made again today. It was said by my colleague Novák that, in fact, after that - and now I do not know what to call it - a considerable urgency and the vision that he would actually go through an amendment involving several Members from different parties, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, began to respond to the fact that he would like to participate somehow. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, too, has been declared wanting to participate in the amendment. Therefore, I do not understand the response of Mr Sklenák, because the amendment tabled here by Mr Novák is also made in cooperation with Minister Maláčová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u18	Now another factual point, and it is Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Then Mr Roman Sklenák will prepare himself. Mrs Valachová, are you canceling the facts? Okay, so Mr. Roman Sklenák has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u19	I just, if Mrs Aulická doesn't understand, I will try to explain it to her in a different way, through you. I am now looking into the system for this press and there are growing amendments. The second reading serves to bring forward our amendments as well. And if what happened today happens, now a number of Members and their co-workers are texting quickly to get into the system. So that's what this is about. The practice that was here has been tested over the years, which is why we've come to it and that's why we've followed it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u20	Now, Mr Ondřej Profant, on a factual point, will be prepared in Mrs Eva Fialová's general debate. She's ready, I said a while ago. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u21	Good afternoon. I completely understand the disillusionment of colleagues from the ČSSD, and I actually have a question for them, if there is someone who will give us an opinion for the Minister, for the Ministry etc.? I understand that the Ministry was involved in a comprehensive amendment, but I guess that's not all. We don't know what might have been negotiated there, what couldn't have been negotiated there, if it really is so consensual, and so if, for example, one of the colleagues on the same side doesn't know the position, can't he briefly convey it to us? Or if the Secretary of State doesn't show up in a while, if there's no information?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u22	Now, in the general debate, Mrs Eva Fialová will speak and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. So, madam, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u23	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, everyone. I will only briefly comment on this proposal to the press. I would like to thank you from this place through President Lucia Šafránková, Marek Novák, Jana Pastuchová, Hanka Aulickáý and all those who have done a great deal of work, and subsequently the Ministry, which has given a large share in the creation of this comprehensive amendment, which Marek Novák presented in very detail a moment ago. Those things that are included in the amendment are really based on practice, they are based on practice from people who face difficult situations every day who deal with daily problems regarding overuse, unfair system, not achieving some material emergency, etc., inadequate housing in conditions that are not dignified for anyone who solves education, the attendance of children in schools. [[15.20 hours]] I may respond here to Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President. I don't know a lot of families who would really bother that a child doesn't go to school because it's being dealt with intensively with parents at the moment, there are other ways to react, there are a lot of organizations that do this, and most of the time, parents don't really do much with that teenager, or they don't care. I am very sorry that only the negatives are highlighted from some organisations, but we must realise that if everyone follows certain rules, everyone, I do not want to make exceptions, it will never be affected by this and will never be taken away from it. The rules are there for everyone and they're supposed to apply for everyone. Things that may not happen if people follow these rules are anticipated. Moreover, this comprehensive amendment is very balanced and rather closes the scissors that we currently have in society, when some people no longer reach some assistance, and introduces a good practice that arose from field observation. For me, I am a great supporter of not including their income in the family's overall income and staying with the children or the family, because that is what motivates them to complete and complete the school. Another incentive element is for pensioners or our seniors who can't actively increase their income, and a lot and a lot of other things. But I guess it's a matter of opinion for all of us who live in that situation or who struggles with it and who comes into practice with it. And here's a big thank you to everyone who's been involved in this, and X months have been working very hard on it. And now, allow me, I would like to join this law with a minor amendment, which I propose together with my colleague Eva Matyášová and Pavla Golasowská, who is dealing with a slightly different issue, providing extraordinary immediate assistance, which we have been convinced is very important in the time of the conavir. It is very functional, but it is governed by the administrative order. The law states that it is handled without delay, but if it is not settled without delay, it is, according to the administrative order, 30 days to process the application, and this puts some families or individual applicants in a very difficult situation where they can play days, hours about how their next life will develop. So, in this case, I propose a slight adjustment in the allocation or recognition of the decision on emergency immediate assistance to be made without delay, but no later than 15 calendar days and subsequently 30 days of appeal, so that the applicant has clear information as to whether the emergency immediate assistance will be allocated to him or not within 14 days. It will speed up their situation very quickly, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u24	Now a factual point - Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. And Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be prepared in the general debate. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u25	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my colleague Fialová very much for the reaction, she mentioned exactly what I'm asking, but she just didn't answer my question exactly, and that's what happens to those parents who can't do anything about the kids, which is the term you just used. In fact, it doesn't make sense to me that a parent who has a problem with a difficult child in puberty or just before puberty, who typically still uses drugs in those ghettos, unfortunately, should punish him with a dull sentence by not having any money to make a living. I don't think it's gonna solve the situation, so I'm gonna ask you how you want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u26	A point of fact, Mr. Marek Novák will speak. Madam Hana Aulická will be ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u27	Thank you for the floor. Just in short, please, Mr President, to my colleague Ferjenčík. Please, we have a clear bill of what happens when parents are unable to take care of the child. That's the law, please. So if the parent is not able to secure the basic needs of his child, compulsory schooling and so on, he's going according to the law. I believe you know the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u28	Now a factual remark - Hana Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u29	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I, by your means, would also like to respond to my colleague Ferjenčík. Of course, I say that there may be families where there is such a problem, but I think that we are talking not only about families who are so-called in a material need, but I think that this is a pretty common phenomenon, even for families who normally go to work, work and do not need to benefit from material distress or from state social support. It's just a simple fact. One thing, however, is that we're not just talking about teenage children here, and mostly those 15-year-olds who don't even have an appointment end up at the employment office, because the family is more or less forcing them to go to the employment office and not to do any further education. That is why, even in this change, income will not be assessed through practice, if the children go on to further education, just to avoid losing benefits. So that's one motivational fact that's there. The second thing is that we're talking about pre-school attendance here, but also the schoolwork, the little kids, because those parents have absolutely no innuendo, and they don't even teach their kids the habits. And if they're accustomed to getting up at 9:00, 10:00, 11:00, because by 2:00 in the morning, they have other motivational things to do not sleep, then don't be surprised that they're not motivated to lead their children to schools, when they're more or less not being punished for it in quotation marks, but it doesn't lead to the children being educated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u30	Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now make a point of fact. I have one more application for a factual remark, and it's Mr. Roman Sklenák. Well, Mr. Ferjenčík, you have two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u31	Thank you for the floor. I'm going to respond to a fellow Novák who says we have a law here that solves it. So I ask you, what analysis does this mean that this new measure, which is actually designed to solve the same problem, will be effective? And then I wanted to ask my colleague Aulická Jírovcová if it really doesn't sell through the network of laws those parents who are really trying have more children and maybe one thing is troublesome, one thing they can't deal with, but everyone else goes to school normally, so there may be evidence that there is really no problem on the part of the parents. So it seems to me that these people are in danger of falling through a sieve and losing the money that the rest of the family feeds, and they really didn't do anything wrong. I'm interested in how this is solved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u32	Mr Roman Sklenák will now make a point of fact and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be prepared in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u33	Thank you. We, colleagues here, should make laws for everyone. And here in response to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová - she talks about a group of people, says: Mostly these people have it so and so, they mostly sleep long and so need to tighten the law. But we simply cannot go beyond the Constitution, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. By the way, even in the government's position on the original press, this was mentioned. In our constitutional order, it is stated that everyone in material need is entitled to adequate security, which is the basic principle of an advanced society. And if someone's in need and the kid's skipping school, it's just not possible to take the adequate material security and send him under the bridge. That's what's going on here - the two views on adjusting doses in material distress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u34	A factual point - I have two Members prepared, first of all it is Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and then it is Mr František Kopřiva. And now Mr Pavel Plzák has come to me. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I don't want to delay, because we really only have half an hour before the next press is required to discuss it. Anyway, to my colleague Sklenák, through Mr President. In fact, you're the one who's fighting the obligation to go to school and learn. After all, we have compulsory school attendance here, and I think 90 percent of the population of the Czech Republic is governed by this. So why should we be blind and keep leaving people here who deliberately - some already deliberately - do not fulfil these obligations? Tell me why! I perceive and deal with this in the long term in the Ústí Region that we need to address this very area, because it is unsustainable in the long term in municipalities, in municipalities, in cities. Because it's not just because he doesn't go to school, but it's criminality. Even those little kids make little gangs and harass, steal, and so on, move in places where they rob our seniors, and so on. And I'm not saying they're just people in material distress. I'm just generally telling you that it's perfectly normal to go and send your kids to school. And you're saying we're gonna deny it just so we don't accidentally damage anyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u36	Now I'm going to recapitulate because I have four factual points here, so you know. Mr František Kopřiva, second Member Pavel Plzák, third Member Kateřina Valachová, fourth Member Roman Sklenák. So now Mr. František Kopřiva has the floor. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a question for the petitioner. Probably any of them can answer, because here, of course, he still presents the worst examples as argument, some kind of gang of children, and so on. And now let's move on to the fact that we've been living here for almost a year now in the age of covid, distance teaching, basically with some short breaks, where teaching is often not as well organized as the standard one, which I totally understand. I don't want to criticize schools or educators right now. It's really hard, but the teaching's going on. And so I'm now reading in this proposal that families in material distress will be fined from a housing supplement and a living allowance if one of the family members commits a so-called "selected offense," which may, for example, be in violation of the municipal decree. [[Odds from the diaper.]] Well, I wonder if it also counts... Then you can answer it later, if you like, here on the microphone. I'd just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u38	Wait a minute. Please report to the actual note, please report with the button. And do you have any objection? [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Sorry. Let's leave a point of fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u39	I just wanted to ask the petitioners if it's really treated, that there will be no punishment for any kind of sledding in Petřín or similar obsolete decrees, or which are completely out of order. This is really about, I understand the motivation for sending some really serious stuff. But my point is, do you have it treated in the design? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u40	So please, let the Members speak. Mr Pavel Plzák will now make a point of order and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd also like to see a colleague of Sklenák. His statement gave me the impression that he was actually saying, "Why are you doing something, it's unconstitutional?" Okay. Well, I guess we can't do anything in that case. Then suggest something else. I may have been one of those instigators because both the mayor and the teachers from both elementary schools in Úpici, as MEPs, were looking at me because they just didn't know what to do with it anymore. Maybe it's a shame they didn't turn to you for advice. That is why I asked my colleagues from the Social Committee and so on, my colleagues really went around. Go out into the field and go between the teachers and the mayors and tell them there's nothing you can do about it! I'd like to see that after what they think of us. And by the way, I, too, have intersected your secretary in that regard. And you know what she told me? Well, think of something! So my colleagues came up with something when the Ministry didn't invent it. That the D.O.D. has joined, excellent. I support it all. But go out with these people, go out with the teachers. I'll arrange for you to meet with us. You can go in there and see what you ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u42	Now a factual point - Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mr Roman Sklenák will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, a few words for an ongoing debate. I think my colleague Roman Sklenák was headed in a slightly different direction. This law was created in some time, then it was modified. At this point, we are in a completely different situation than at the time of the novel. We are in a situation where the country is closed in a pandemic for a year. With regard to the families of the economically weaker, we are dealing - and perhaps with a much larger number of people than we would like, not just in a material need for families - that they still do not have objective conditions for access within distance education of online teaching, technical equipment, computers, connectivity, internet to schools. I think it's pretty important because we approve the rules now. I'd like us to realize that. The second point I want to point out is that our economic, economic situation is getting worse overall. While this proposal arose at a time of economic growth and boom, at the moment it is clear that unfortunately more and more people will face, and not by their guilt, but by their economic situation, the decline of companies, etc., with worse living conditions, unfortunately. Although we will try, for example, through cursarbeit and other things to ensure employment, it is clear that more people will be needed in material need. It is also important to be very aware. Of course, I am responding to this in the framework of the amendments, and I would like to draw your attention to the proposal and ask for your support to cover the costs of the Internet, which responds to my first point. And I would like to ask you, Mr President, to Sklenák this debate fairly, even though of course there is no time to lose. We make laws for everyone. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u44	Time. Yes. Now, then, Mr Roman Sklenák, Mr Lucie Šafránková, will be prepared for the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u45	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my colleague Aulická and my colleague Plzák, who addressed me directly in their contributions. Firstly, of course, I do not want to argue at all, and please do not put this in my mouth, my colleague, through Mr President, that there should be no compulsory schooling or that we should not require compulsory schooling. I'm just talking about the fact that the repression isn't working in this case. And that, too, is the answer to my colleague Plzák, that I should come up with something. Well, I'll tell you the solution. Of course, others have already figured that out, look at the countries where it works. The solution is called social work. If someone is in such a situation, it is necessary to work socially with him. That's the solution. Just take these people by the hand, figuratively speaking, and lead them through life. And that's coming somewhere. If you think you're gonna take their doses, they're gonna think deeply and start acting differently, I guarantee you that's just not how it is. If this principle of repression worked, for example, we don't have prisons full of recidivists because they know that if they commit something, they'll go to prison. And they're saying it anyway. It's just that this isn't something we should be discovering, that's what's described. And we should be inspired in countries where social work is handled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u46	Now a factual remark - Lucie Šafránková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u47	Thank you. I would just, by your means, like to respond to Mr Kopřiva, perhaps even partially to Mr Ferjenčík. I would like to say that this is not the subject of the House press 652, but of the House press 290, which will certainly be discussed here soon also at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u48	Mr Martin Jiránek will now take action. Mr Pavel Plzák and Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík are also registered. Three factual points so far. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u49	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I had such a question because here my colleague Aulická and Mr Sklenák dealt a lot with such a thing in quote words that most of them, part of them, many of them etc. So I'd like to ask. I understand that this is a problem, and I understand that a large part of the problems are really there, I agree. On the other hand, your adjustments are quite strict in the impact on the financial lives of those families. I wonder if it was being performed... or if you have any numbers, how many people we wouldn't want it to touch, and how many we'd like it to touch. I'm talking about the numbers that it really touches. I understand that you're not gonna tell me 553 286, but some gross percentage, some numbers, where we know that someone's targeting something targeted, how many they're using and how many they're not. Because we can interfere here, say, in tens of thousands, 100,000 families, with the drop in those doses. I understand that at some point it's justified, but I don't know - and it would be good to talk about it - whether it's a percentage of 10 or a percentage of 95. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u50	Now a factual point - Mr Pavel Plzák and, as so far, the last one for Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u51	Thank you and I promise for the last time, for my colleague Sklenák, through Mr President. It's just that social work doesn't work, unfortunately. Go down there and ask how it works. The child doesn't come to school, there won't be children from the families where parents sleep in the morning, so they can't even send the child to school, teachers, teaching assistants who are sitting there waiting for the children and the children won't come. So it's called OSPOD, OSPOD's looking for family contact, no family contact, no phone call, so it's going somewhere, but it's never any of it. It's just you, you, you. And the educators will tell you that really nothing but financial motivation, whether it's positive or negative, just doesn't work on these families. It's not working. They're not doing anything to each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u52	So now a factual point - Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and will be prepared in the general debate by Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u53	I wanted to respond to my colleague Šafránková, who said I was speaking to another press. However, I have been here all along dealing with the question of taking benefits in material distress in cases where children do not go to school. I understand that principle, but I've asked the parents who are trying to get their kids to school, but those kids don't go there. And then my colleague Novák referred me to another legislative framework, but this still does not address the question of, for example, family members, other children of the same parents, where some go to school. So I asked you about this thing. I believe, at least from the way I listened quite carefully to the presentation of the amendment by my colleague Novák, that this is precisely the content of the press, so I do not understand why you are reminding me here that I am off topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u54	So now one more factual point by Mrs Hana Aulická and Alena Gajdůškovášková is still prepared. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u55	I apologise to my colleague Gajdůšková, I would just like to answer, more or less, to a fellow Pirate colleague by your means, Mr President. I don't think we have the numbers as such. I have been in municipal policy since 2002 and for the last eight years, so now also in regional policy, we are dealing with the really long-term effect of non-walking, or since the last reform of material emergency, I think from 2009. We are really concerned with the insubordination of attendance and the motivation for the children of those families to send children to schools. And I have to say that these numbers vary because, of course, some kids put in schools, the employment authorities react somehow, and then, of course, the OSPODs respond, social workers. But I can't tell if the Department of Labour itself is processing any records. I do not think that these are rather estimates of those other non-profit organizations or agencies for social inclusion. But if these numbers, which are registered like this in the authorities or in the context of the social trade unions, I think we'd be based on the actual data. But today, if we wanted it from the Ministry, I don't think we're able to give this up to date because of course it's different. There is some sort of social work set up, but Mr Plzák said so, the social work - you can have a hundred people, but if those families don't want to, they refuse to cooperate, you can't do anything with them. I'm not saying it's everyone. Some really need long-term escorts in more or less other areas, there are other stressful things like execution, etc. But really, just the social work isn't salvation, and it doesn't work to a large extent, because even those families don't want to cooperate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u56	Now one more point of fact - Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u57	Thank you so much for your answer. Part of me makes sense that these numbers are, of course, difficult to find. Anyway, I hope all parties - about us, about the pirát, are saying a lot that we are record-based policy, that we are doing a policy based on numbers. As I would say: at least some numbers would be good to have here, because the effects really can be partly devastating when I use the expressive word, for some of the families where we don't want things logically to touch them, as my colleague Ferjenčík says here, and we can give more examples on the edge. Really without numbers, how many people it's gonna turn out, how it's gonna turn out, who's taking advantage of it, who's not using it, it's harder to support your proposal because they just don't show me a number-based argument. That's what I'm gonna say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u58	So now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will speak in the general debate and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u59	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues, I have come forward because I want to support a comprehensive amendment which I would like to appreciate that there has really been agreement on the Social Committee that we have been able to agree that the proposal initially proposed by Mrs Šafránka and SPD should be without any problematic parts - I apologise now to Mrs Šafránková. But as we discussed the proposal, there were various measures in the original proposal, which were constitutionally controversial or were modified in the opposite way, or otherwise than the legislative text would follow, it would simply act differently. So I am really glad that there has been an agreement, and this amendment, which he has read and where is the main referring colleague, Marek Novák, is in the agreement of the Social Committee. [[15.50 hours]] On top of that, the philosophy of benefits in material distress, but also other benefits, but especially benefits in material distress according to the Social Democrats, is that they must function as trampoline. We must not let families with children, in particular, fall into a situation that they can no longer get out of. My colleague Valachová pointed out that the crisis, the coronavirus crisis, could get into trouble, real economic problems, and the situation of families who care, which have been working and ordinary citizens so far. Therefore, we need to be very and very careful with the simple solutions. The benefits of aid in material distress are intended to help people overcome the crisis and return to normal life, that is to work, to provide a separate family and to take care of children. That's what we think of it as Social Democrats. However, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs supports the revision of benefits, but I don't want to speak for the MPSV, the Minister apologized in the morning, and Mr Sklenák was divorcing that it's a bit unfortunate to include it, I'm sorry that the Minister isn't here. But I want to thank the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for their cooperation in preparing a comprehensive amendment that we are talking about, which also regulates parametric adjustments to individual benefits, which were also intended in the draft Housing Act. The details of the amendment were presented by colleague Marek Novák. I'm going to make a point about that. If these measures are to be effective, the measures in the law must be accompanied by other measures outside the supply system. And this is a matter of course of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also of ammunition, regions and municipalities. Then I would also like to remind you that other amendments are tabled to this press that we are discussing, and I am glad that I was able to join the amendment, which Kateřina Valachová will sign up for in detail in the debate, has already talked about it a little bit. The aim of this amendment is to include Internet connection to housing costs for the purposes of entitlement and the amount of housing benefits, as well as to extend the provision of a contribution to housing and subleases. These are the things that have shown practice that have surfaced to an even stronger extent now in relation to pandemics, and you know that we have tried to support the financial equipment of the necessary families with computer technology, but also access to data so that they can function and manage distance education. I would like to stress that I am very pleased that the proposal in the form of this comprehensive amendment, as we have agreed within the Committee, balances the rights and obligations of beneficiaries of benefits and contains a number of positive measures. There was a question for us about the Social Democrats, what we pushed through in this comprehensive amendment. So I just have a short list: it was or are it more fair conditions of material emergency for pensioners, pensions are counted from 70 percent, and not 80 percent as today, the income of students from practice will not reduce the benefits for families, the housing allowance will be available for new rentals, and the cost of Internet connection will also be included in the housing costs. These are probably just the most fundamental things that we wanted to promote there as social democracies. Finally, I ask once again for the support of a comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u60	Now, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will speak in the general debate, and I will just point out that we have a fixed point at 4:00. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I will present the two amendments that we are proposing. The first concerns - and it is a separate amendment - what, in my view, is very important, namely to enable the housing levy also to be paid by the housing subsidy fund under the cooperative housing fund. For the next time, if you support this amendment, I would ask you very much to do so as a tenant of an apartment for the purposes of the law that allows you to receive a benefit of housing assistance, even the tenant of the whole apartment, which the apartment uses with the consent of the owner of the apartment. For the purposes of this Act, in the case of a lease relationship, the tenant enters the rights and obligations of the owner of the apartment and the tenant into the rights and obligations of the tenant of the apartment. Simply put, our still large, albeit in the past built cooperative housing fund would so in the future, because these are a large number of cooperative flats, in addition to sufficient standard, quality, proportionality, could be made available in this way, because they are formally rental relationships, i.e. in quotation marks, from the point of view of their owners, if they decide to sublet them to people who would be interested. I consider this essentially the cheapest measure to extend the possibility of decent housing at this time within the Czech housing fund, because this cooperative housing fund cannot actually be used in this way. We all want to get rid of substandard and expensive residential hotels, and I believe that this amendment - and I am a bit of abusing the situation by your means, Mr President - will also support the Minister of Finance. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has calculated the impact of this amendment on 800 million, but at the same time it is necessary to include a number of other things and savings that we are spending at the moment, of course - increased costs, and also in the wrong direction, for example, on the mentioned substandard hostels, which we want to get rid of, especially from the point of view of protecting people's dignity, but also the municipalities and cities in a number of regions, of course mostly in the Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký or Karlovy Vary region. This proposal therefore extends the scope of legal titles to the apartment to a so-called sublease relationship which can be based on the right to a housing benefit. This would be a housing allowance. The measure will benefit, in particular, users of cooperative flats. The members of the housing associations who have apartments in rent sublease them with the agreement of the housing cooperative, these apartments, but the tenants are not entitled to the housing allowance, even if they otherwise fulfil the conditions of the entitlement. The current strict regulation, limiting the applicable legal titles only to the ownership and rental relationship, is felt unfair when the meaning of the law is fulfilled in particular in the case of cooperative flats. All I'm saying here is that the injustice will remove this not only from the perspective of future potential such users, and, as I say, by combating substandard hostels and their liquidation, but it will also improve the situation of people who are using cooperative apartments in this way at the moment, however, they cannot achieve a contribution to housing. In order to avoid abuse of the housing allowance, it is proposed that the whole apartment must be rented, this is very important, because you know the practices of various cornered residential hotels, where not only does they try to take dignity from such tenants or tenants, to accommodate people, but also, of course, to prey on housing benefits. And that the owner of the apartment has to agree to this relationship, that's for sure. By means of an approximation of the proportion of beneficiaries of social housing benefits in rental apartments, it can be estimated that around 20 per cent of the total number of tenants could qualify for housing allowances, i.e., a range of beneficiaries could increase by some 20 000 to 30 000 beneficiaries. [[16.00 hours]] Please imagine, it is 20,000 to 30,000 decent apartments, cooperative apartments that can be used for housing and decent housing of people and families. By a gross estimate of the average amount of the benefit granted to the rental apartments, the cost of sublease housing could be around 850 million. That is, therefore, the amount you have been talking about, and I believe that this is the cheapest way, at the moment the cheapest and fastest way to make it possible for decent housing to be made available, and I believe that you will identify with this opinion, colleagues, not only you and support the proposal, but above all, the Ministry of Finance will identify and ensure this amount. As I say, the finals will be lower, because we will save on what we want, which means we will not support loan sharks in the hostels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-10-ps2017-079-08-002-032.u62	Thank you. I'm interrupting this point because it's 4:00 p.m. and we've got fixed points here. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. At this point, we're going to be discussing fixed points.
