ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u1	20. Government proposal for a law on lobbying / House printing 565/ - second reading We started discussing this point on 18 June at the 104th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The item was interrupted in the general debate and adjourned until the next proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The press was also ordered by the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee was delivered as a House press of 565/1 and 4 and the resolution of the Permanent Commission was not delivered. At the rapporteur's table is, as draftsman of the Minister of Justice, Marie Benešová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Jan Chvojka. We will now continue with the interrupted general debate, in which Mr František Navrkal and Mrs Kateřina Valachová are the first to enter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. In a detailed debate, I will sign up for some eight of my amendments to this House press. Some are basically technical changes, technical improvements that have a positive opinion of the Ministry, and some are more controversial, although I think all my proposals do what the law should do, it fits the idea. [[11.30 hours]] I am very pleased that we are finally on the agenda and that we will finally be able to move forward with this long-term anti-corruption legislation. And I hope that this will also be able to negotiate this parliamentary term, even if the delay so far has put it very much at risk. So more in a detailed debate. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u3	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear, Mr Jakob will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have long supported the adoption of new rules for lobbying, we have long lacked lobbying rules, and in the last term, the government has also proposed a solution in the form of a government bill, which to some extent has become an inspiration for continuing to seek new rules for lobbying in the Czech Republic. On the one hand, in addition to of course supporting the overall proposal for the introduction of lobbying rules in the Czech Republic, the definition of terms as a lobbyist or lobbying person and so on, I would like to present two amendments in my speech, which I will then apply to in a detailed debate only briefly by signing up to the figure. My aim is to push through the following two amendments with you. These are amendments already to approved amendments to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, where some of my amendments have also been passed. I note that all these amendments are consulted with the Ministry of Justice and with organisations that deal with the question of lobbying and its implementation in the Czech Republic in the long term, such as the Reconstruction of the State, and the assignment to handle these matters in the form of amendments, and that it is necessary, came also from the working anti-corruption group that I participate in and led by the President of the House. So the first amendment to the amendment to the constitutionally-legal committee concerns the following situation: Lobbists can lobby, and in practice it is common, with more interests. This means that they may have more contracting entities in whose interest they lobby, or may combine lobbying with the interests of third parties, for their own interests and for the interests of the public, i.e. the interests of an indefinite circle of third parties. However, according to the proposal of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it will not be possible to distinguish the various interests behind which lobbyists lobbyists are lobbying, and thus lobbying lobbyists will be equally attributed to all those whom the lobbyist states in the declaration as persons in whose interest he lobbies. At the same time, the initial distinction between the various interests for which the lobbyist lobbies is lobbying is also important for the lobbying authorities themselves, who will otherwise be associated with all activities of the lobbyist hired, even if it is performed for another client and even if this client does not agree with it. The proposed form of the provisions of § 12 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) so, in my opinion and opinion, other experts in the field threaten particularly professional commercial lobbyists and their relations with clients. It is therefore proposed to complement the obligation to indicate in what interest the lobbyist lobbies also the obligation to define this interest simply, i.e. to allow for the distinction between different separate and independent interests for which the lobbyist is simultaneously lobbying, by defining the description of the intention, which is usually a general strategic objective, the expected impact. The objective to be stated by lobbyists in the quarterly reports, regardless of this proposed change, has the character of the so-called partial instrumental objective, that is to say, the expected output, the maximum result, which can often change and may change depending on the lobbyed person. On the other hand, the proposal for an anchored definition of the interests of the strategic objective in the opening declaration of the lobbyist should not change, or only exceptionally. A practical example of the change in the lobbyist's proposal is attached to the following page, which you will find recorded in the electronic system, colleagues and colleagues, practically so that you will be clear about what the difference is. So I also refer to this practical expression and, of course, I will also publish it in the light of transparency towards the public, so that the public can get acquainted with these changes. So that is the first amendment that I am thus justifying. The following amendment also aims to make a practical point - to adapt the already approved text on which we agreed on the constitutionally-legal committee, and to unify the concept of lobbyist. This has been done by making amendments to the constitutionally-legal committee against the data contained in the lobbyist footsteps of the legislation, and I suggest that we clarify the regulation in such a way that we are really clear about what the concept of lobbyist means and that there are no problems in practice. Now, therefore, a brief statement of reasons. The Constitutional Legal Committee recommended the provision in the form that operates with the term lobbying person, who was in the original proposal in the Houses of the Press 566 - that is, the press, which we will then discuss, which the Constitutional Legal Committee changed - used as a wider set of persons than a set of persons of the concept lobbyist. At the same time, the Constitutional Legal Committee rejected the concept of lobbying in the Houses of the Press 566. There was therefore a conceptual non-compliance when the proposal approved by the Constitutional and Legal Committee operates in Section 14 of the proposal for a law on lobbying with the concept of lobbying, while in the related amendment of the Act on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, the House press 566, continues with the term lobbyist. The amendment contained in Amendment 1, which we are discussing now, is therefore a proposal to unify both concepts into the concept of lobbyist. At the same time, the Constitutional Legal Committee has proposed to allow lobbyists to object to information about their lobbying, lobbying, as well as the lobbyists have the opportunity to object to information that lobbyists have included in the register. However, there was no laying down of sanctioning provisions that would allow the statement of objections in the lobby ceiling to be enforced. It is therefore proposed to supplement the offence that may be committed by lobbyists if they do not record an objection to the data contained in the lobbyist trail submitted by the lobbyist. That is the second part of this amendment, and I am merely calling on my fellow Members to say that, of course, on the Guarantee Constitutional Legal Committee, I will also beg that, if necessary, this amendment and both points are voted separately, because, as you can certainly hear, everyone concerns something slightly different. This means, in point 1, that the concept of lobbyist is unification, in point 2, that it is a sanction provision and the introduction of an offence. All these three changes, which I presented in substance, are important for the practice of new lobbying rules to work and not to cause difficulties and misunderstandings, but rather to really lead to transparency. I would therefore like your support, colleagues, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Madam Secretary of Justice Marie Benešová cancels her original apology and is present, which is obvious. And now I beg Mr Jan Jakob to speak, President Chvojka will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for interrupting the debate that we have had the opportunity to redo our amendments in order to refer to the comprehensive amendment of the constitutional-legal committee. I would like to present to you my simple amendment, which returns to the government bill the position of President of the Republic as one of the mandatory entities, the so-called lobbyed one. The exemption of the provision in question took place at the meeting of the Government on 30 July 2019, without this being clearly and convincingly justified. [[11.40 hours]] This intervention seems rather unstandard. When approving the draft law in the form in which the Government was referred to the House, illogical asymmetry would occur in individual bodies of the legislative process having influence and lobbied within the meaning of this law would therefore need an assistant to the Member whose influence on the final form of the law can be doubted, while the President with his strong legal and non-legal status would not. In order to include the President in the list of mandatory bodies, the Government Legislative Council also spoke when discussing the substantive intention of this law. There is therefore no rational reason, in my view, for the President of the Republic not to be included in this list of lobbyists. I appreciate and acknowledge that the comprehensive amendment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee includes the President's advisors among lobbies, which was not in the original proposal either. The other two parts of this amendment are technical. The first regulates the list and shift of individual links in § 7 and the last point actually releases the original modification of these links, which in one case did not correspond with the appropriate entity, when the Czech National Bank should have entered into the lobby register according to bad link by members of the ČT Council. I would like to ask you then to support this amendment at third reading and, in a detailed debate, I will briefly sign up to the House document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u7	Thank you. President Jan Chvojka will now speak in the general debate, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Have a nice noon, co-workers, co-workers. Firstly, I am glad that my colleague Jakob and some others acknowledged that it was a good thing that the press had interrupted last time because it took some time to prepare amendments, because if we had closed it last time, 14 days ago, many Members would have been denied the opportunity to read the amendments, and so would I, too, have prepared an amendment. I will now justify it in the general debate or introduce it, and then, of course, in the context of the detailed debate, I will formally sign up to it. The proposal consists in amending § 2, which is a description of the activity of what is actually lobbying, and I add in addition to § 2 para. 1 (a), (b) still points (c) and (d). These are, in fact, things that I have argued or proposed in the first reading, only the various debates that we had in the context of this law. The reason is that through lobbying or through lobbying - if we recall various cases, I don't remember much about when those cases were based on the fact that someone lobbied for a law or decree or other legislation. Most of these unfair activities took place when it concerned a public contract or public support or other matters such as a zoning plan. Therefore, I add to § 2 para. 1 (c) and (d) where I say that lobbying is a communication activity - point (c) for the preparation, negotiation or approval of a public contract awarded by a contracting authority, and then I supplement point (d) also logically, according to me, the setting of the conditions for granting investment public aid and the submission of an application for investment public aid through public funds and its approval, including the decision to grant it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u9	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, so far the last one entered into the general debate, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u10	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, fellow Members, I would just like to briefly imagine and justify the amendment that we have already discussed on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee. This is a modification of § 2 para. 1 of this government proposal for a law on lobbying, where the lobbying process itself is defined. In this amendment, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, one word is added, namely that it is a continuous communication activity carried out in order to influence the actions lobbyed at - and now there are the individual letters, as my colleague Chvojka has now proposed, and that further addition of points (c) and (d) must be consistent. [[with emphasis]] Lobbying, according to most available definitions, is a specialized and systematic activity that has a recurring and longer-term character. Therefore, it is not possible to identify as lobbying any one-time or random communication activity carried out in order to influence the actions lobbied without any further qualification requirements. It is therefore clear that any communication to influence, for example, the legislator, cannot be described as lobbying. Here we would really regard ad absurdum as lobbying any meeting of the legislator with a person, for example, in the square or at various debates, discussions and so on, and this obviously was not and is not the intention of the legislator and the petitioner in defining what lobbying is and what lobbying is not. So the proposal here needs to be seen in the context, too, in order that the above definition does not include any communication, in which case the definition would be very broad, in order to make it clear that it must be a continuous activity which consists of communication which is carried out in order to influence the behaviour of the lobbyed person. That's why we propose to add one single word - the word "constitutional." By the way, I would like to stress that this included the original proposal of the government, or the Ministry of Justice, and then the word was released. So I am merely suggesting that we return the word, the term - continuous action - so that it becomes clear what lobbying is and what lobbying is not. Thank you for your attention and for your support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Interest in the final words after the general debate? Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur, thank you. I am therefore opening up a detailed debate. The first in the detailed debate is Mr František Navrkal, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I announced in the general debate, I have several amendments prepared. I will be the first to present here an amendment concerning electronic identity. So I'm applying to him. It is listed as House Document No 8623 and even has a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice as a petitioner. This amendment is basically technical. The point is that citizens can log in to those systems that will be created by law and look into the register using new identification means such as banking identity. [[11.50 hours]] The next amendment to which I am referring is as House Document No 8624 and it is basically similar to what my colleague Jakob here represented, actually that corresponds to part of his amendment, but I would just say better legislatively technically addressed. It is about the inclusion of the President of the Republic as a possible lobbyist within the framework of the law. Basically, I would repeat here what my colleague Jakob has already said here as a defence of the proposal, because it is practically the same, except that my colleague's amendment Jakoba's got other stuff going on there. So here I have a negative opinion from the Minister, which I don't fully understand either, because I think it fits perfectly with how the law is conceived and how it should work. The next amendment to which I refer is as House Document No 8625 and it is an extension of the substantive scope of the law. It's basically something like what Chvojek here represented, but I'm actually going much further here, when the substantive scope extends to influencing the actions lobbied in general in the performance of his public office, so there is no taxative list of these things such as the preparation of legislation, or as he proposes a colleague Chvojka, a public contract or a subsidy - although I think it is those who are afraid to give it this broad, as I propose here in my amendment - so I take it as a good compromise and thank my colleague Chvojka that he has tabled his amendment, and I hope that just as a compromise to those who think that I am taking it too far in my amendment, which I do not think, of course, but at least at third reading, he will pass through at least a colleague Chvojka. The next amendment to which I am applying is as House Document No 8627. Once again, it is a technical proposal, where it is just added to the law, so that the data from the register is accessible as so-called open data, meaning somewhere in machine-readable format, so that some websites like - I don't know - State watcher and the like can easily access and aggregate these data, connect them with other databases, and better display them to users than display the systems directly that form the state. Here I also have a positive opinion from the Minister, for which I thank you. The next amendment to which I am applying is as House Document No 8629. Here I have a neutral position from the Justice Department. This is actually quite technical, too. It's just that lobbyists should start when they register as lobbyists to state what they really want to achieve in their lobbying. Of course, this can evolve over time, they can update it and so on. The next amendment to which I am applying is as House Document No 8632. The point is that if there is any offence against the provisions of this law, so that these offences are automatically made public. I guess that's all there is to it. And I am not sure yet that I have not said the number of the House document, so I am applying to this amendment and is being led as House document 8632. The next amendment to which I am applying is as House Document No 8633. It's really a detail here, it's a technique again. It's just an extension of the list of possible lobbying means to distinguish, for example, mass e-mails from some address e-mails and so on. So I hope that it may be widely acceptable. The next and last amendment to which I am applying is under House document 8635 and the question is that the law... The bill now lacks some advantages for lobbyists, some privileges that lobbyists would think they actually have to fulfil the obligations that this law requires. What makes great sense is that registered lobbyists have the right to look at the system that serves to produce legislative documents at government level, so called eKLEP. I think it makes complete sense. It's probably different than that, when someone contacts us that they want some documents from eKLEP, someone externally, so I guess we meet different people here individually, who we have access to. I guess that's all there is to say. I think it's a good thing there's an advantage to lobbyists in that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u13	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Radek Vondráček, then Mrs Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u14	Thank you for the floor. I exercise preferential rights and in accordance with § 95 para. I propose that the House vote that the third reading period be reduced to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u15	Yes, thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment under House document 3228. I have already justified it in the general debate in the previous debate. I shall simply repeat that the reason for the submission is that the legislature has not included in the list of lobbying advisors of the President of the Republic in the proposed lobbying law. It should also be noted that the advisers of the President of the Republic often meet with those who meet the conditions of lobbyists and also perform in working and informal meetings. Nor does it dispute that it is the advisers that have a significant influence on the representatives of the executive power and, on the other hand, they themselves can be influenced by third parties. It is therefore necessary to ensure transparency at these levels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u17	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová, Mr Jan Jakob will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u18	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make my views known to you in detail in the general debate. I hereby sign up for Amendment 8638 and Amendment 8640. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u19	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob, President Jan Chvojka will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u20	Thank you. I hereby sign up for House document number 8770, and I have justified the amendment in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u21	President Jan Chvojka, Mr Marek will prepare Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u22	Thank you for the floor. Once again, nice exactly noon. I have justified my amendment, presented it in the context of a general debate. I am now formally signing up for it in the context of the debate in detail. My amendment is registered under number 8797. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u23	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, the last one entered into a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hereby refer to the amendment which I have referred to and which I have justified in the general debate and which is listed in the House of Deputies' system under the number of House document 8801. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u25	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I am not reporting, I am ending the debate in detail. Interested in the final words? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u26	Thank you for the floor, very briefly. The Ministry of Justice tried to fine-tune this government proposal with Members so that we could come to some reasonable compromise. I think that this has succeeded, and I therefore express my support for the two proposals tabled, both in a comprehensive, i.e. an amendment to the IDA, as well as to the guarantee committee, if my colleague Chvojka has tabled his amendments here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-08-ps2017-111-02-009-020.u27	Have a nice noon. We will now vote on the proposal. I'll check you out, sign up with your voting cards again. We will vote on Radek Vondráček's proposal to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days. In the meantime, I will read the apologies or one: from the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for working reasons. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 107 Members registered, for 68, against none. The proposal was accepted and the deadline for the third reading will be reduced to seven days. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. We're going to go to the next point and it's a point number.
