ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u1	527. Oral inhalation intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members in which they will perform and submit oral interviews, first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those who are intersecting the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intervention on the apologized Prime Minister, there will be an interpelation on the members of the Government. First of all, I give the floor to Members of Stanislav Blah, who was drawn in the first place in order to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Andrej Babiš, and Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u2	Dear absent Prime Minister, my interpellation concerns the explosion in Vrbětice. Let's review the facts. Our territory was operated on by top-trained secret agents from the Russian service GRU. They came to our country under false identities as traders with sport nutrition of Tajikistan and Moldova. Despite this, a few days later, they asked for permission to enter the ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice under a new fake identity, this time as arms dealers. The warehouse seemed to be rented by the private company Imex Group at the time. They were given permission to enter the warehouse for five full days from 13th to 17th October. Apparently, they entered the warehouse for the sole purpose of planting a detonator here and intervening in the arms trafficking that took place on our territory. Prime Minister, these are very, very serious information that has been moving life in this country for several days. How is it that when the state is already renting ammunition warehouses, it seems that it is completely unable to control their security? And how is it possible that there is such a secret and illegal trade in weapons in our country? You know, Vrbětice is in the Zlín Region. People wrote to me that when the warehouses started exploding, the tables were bursting in their windows, they saw smoke, fire, they heard explosions. The pressure wave knocked down their kids playing outside. They didn't know what was going on, and in panic they fled their homes. These are very strong stories, and I am therefore interested in: How many ammunition warehouses are there in the Czech Republic that the state leases? Do you even have an overview of what is stored in them and who visits them? Are these people's identities being investigated? How are the warehouses secured and are you working to increase their safety? The whole thing has one more level. The people of Vrbětice and the surrounding area were never compensated for not having been able to use their land for years, which the state cleaned from scattered ammunition. This event cost all taxpayers more than 250 million crowns. Will you compensate these people? And you're going to ask the Russian state for financial compensation? [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u3	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Please, Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Martínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I will be very brief, and I hope that your written answer will be exhaustive. In connection with the Vrbětice case, I wonder if legal storage and arms trafficking for foreign nationals is possible in our country. If so, who is required to ensure the security of such an object, who gives permission to do so and who is responsible for any exceptional events in the event of an explosion of such warehouses. How is it that weapons warehouses do not have security, such as power plants or strategic businesses that have defence solutions against possible terrorist attacks? Why not weapons storage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u5	Thank you, Madame. Mr Tomáš Martínek, Mrs Věra Kovářová, will be ready to interview the Prime Minister next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u6	Dear Prime Minister, the Czech Republic remains a member of the International Investment Bank - MIB, which was founded in 1970 by the governments of the Member States of the Council of Mutual Economic Assistance - RVHP. The Czech Republic is also a member of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation - MBHS, founded by RVHP governments in 1963. Between 2007 and 2011, the Bank prepared to merge with MIB into a regional development bank. After the failure of the transformation process, it was decided that both institutions would reorganize themselves. In 2015 it was a possible liquidation of MBHS, for which the Czech Republic had a mandate. In the end, however, the shareholders agreed that the bank would be maintained and that new strategic objectives would be set. The majority shareholder of the bank is with less than 52 percent of the Russian Federation. In 2014, the Ministry of Finance produced an analysis on the contribution of membership to the Czech Republic in both institutions. The analysis shows recommendations to remain in the International Investment Bank and to withdraw from the International Bank of Economic Cooperation. In its resolution of 18 September 2019, the Senate Security Committee called on the Government to reject further increases in its capital in negotiations at the International Investment Bank - MIB, to prepare steps in accordance with Czech international law necessary for the Czech Republic's withdrawal from MIB, to complete the steps leading to the Czech Republic's withdrawal from the International Bank for Economic Cooperation - MBHS and to negotiate an agreement on the settlement of commitments arising from membership of this institution. In view of these and relations with the Russian Federation, I ask you, Prime Minister: How does the Ministry of Finance proceed in its steps towards ending the Czech Republic's membership of the International Economic Cooperation Bank? Is the Government acting with regard to the resolution of the Senate Security Committee? What are the advantages of the Czech Republic's membership of these organizations? [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Does the Czech Republic also consider ending its membership of the International Investment Bank? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u7	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. I will ask Mrs Věra Kovářová to present her intervention, Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u8	Dear Prime Minister, do we still have a government? And could we see its members in the Chamber of Deputies during Thursday, when the interpelations take place? I think that the scandalous degree of participation or rather not participating in your government's intercessions has failed everyone who still has more than zero expectations for you. Some of my colleagues have been actively criticizing this in the morning during their speeches. But I want to give you another chance, although ex post and in writing, and explain whether the empty gaping government bench has any acceptable explanation. Does the entire government, into one minister, really have such important tasks at the moment that not only can they not be delayed, but you didn't even know about them before to inform us? You know, for years, that interpelations take place on Thursday, and you can therefore adapt the program to that. Interpelations are an indispensable right for a Member to ask public questions to members of the Government and to receive answers to them. And you're hurting us with your long-term absence of this right, and you're artificially dragging us through the time we have to wait for answers. Answers that sometimes point to current problems that need to be addressed now. And they could be dealt with if you and other members of the government paid attention to them, because that is your duty as members of the government. An obligation you've been ignoring for a long time. Dear Prime Minister, will this game of hide and seek continue until the end of the term of office? Or will you make order in the government and secure the participation of government members in the intercessions? Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u9	Thank you, too, Madame. You will receive the answer in writing. Mr Leo Luzar will now present his interview and Mr Radek Koten will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like you to be able to inform this House of Honor on negotiations and information relating to the hut of Liberty Ostrava. On Tuesday of this week, it was to be discussed on the point concerning the situation in this company information as to what the situation in this one of the largest metallurgical plants of the Czech Republic looks like. But I know from the media that you participated with the Minister of Industry and Trade in negotiations with the management of this company. Unfortunately, there is no information in the media about the outcome of this meeting. That is why I would be very happy if, in this form, at least in writing, you would inform us, as the House, of what has been agreed and what the situation in this metallurgical plant is. [[14.40 hours]] I stress that this is one of the largest employers in the region, that it is a company that is affected by restructuring and the problems of metallurgy and mining of the Moravian-Silesian Region, and I stress that if these problems were to grow into some serious economic situation, tens and hundreds of employees of Liberty Ostrava are at risk here. This company, if I have information from the trade unionists of this company, is on strike alert and expects a clear explanation of its questions. Therefore, I would very much like you to answer these questions and inform us, as the House, about the outcome of negotiations with the management of Liberty Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Radek Koten, Mr Ferjenčík, will give his interview to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Mr absent Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's press I intercepted written threats from the State Institute for Drug Control, and imagine this at the address of news server Novinky.cz that they will give them some kind of tickets for advertising the Ivermectin medicinal product, which is now experimentally used in the world and in our country to treat COVID-19. I am very surprised that the Headmistress calls her informative news articles a paid advertisement and exploits her position as a threat to the media. I think it is now time, Prime Minister, for you to reconsider as Prime Minister whether there should be people in charge of a state enterprise who defend the interests of the multinational pharmaceutical lobby instead of working for citizens and patients of this country and may thus be in conflict of interest. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. I would like to ask Mr Ferjenčík to speak now with his intervention, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the situation of the Czech retail sector is absolutely critical after the longest lockdown in Europe. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the procedure that the government has chosen in this matter is illegal and illegal, because the pandemic law does not allow for the general conclusion of retail trade, so I ask you to correct this illegal conduct of yours. I call on you to open retail immediately, of course under strict antiepidemic conditions, but it is simply not appropriate, and above all it is not in accordance with approved legislation, and I ask you to increase compensation for entrepreneurs so that no other healthy companies can be liquidated. One final question to conclude. I'd like to ask you if the reason you're treating retail like this is because it's not in your holding yet. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u15	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský with his interpellation - he is not present in the hall, so this interpelation will not be presented. I will ask Mrs Richterová to prepare Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u16	Thank you for the floor. I have an interview with the absent Prime Minister regarding the personnel provision of the relaxation that awaits our country. I ask about preparation because it has failed many times in the past, and especially because I have not been answered for my part-time work, the number of people who are really engaged in managing the pandemic in our country, although I have asked about it several times already. Let me give you an example of the answer. For example, I also asked about rewards, how it is simply financially ensured that people can pursue full-time management, coordination of pandemics. I quote from the answer: As regards the remuneration of the regional vaccination coordinator, as in the case of the regional bed care coordinator, it is a symbolic matter. So I'm curious, Prime Minister, can you really manage a pandemic with rewards that are symbolic? Don't you consider increasing the rewards of the symbolic to the real so that people can pursue full-time practical issues related to the coordination and management of the pandemic? Finally, I am interested in how specifically you are preparing to increase capacity and manage the route. Tracing has been such a weak stone in the past, and it will be very important to keep the pandemic under control. Even if there's an uptick in vaccination, we'll still need to track for quite a long time. So how do you plan, for example, cooperation with the private sector or what tools to motivate people to report contacts, simply tracking capacities and all that related, how do you prepare for this? And just as you're getting ready for the fact that you're going to need some time to really allocate your jobs... [[Your time.]] , specific working capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u17	I thank you and give the floor to Mr Leo Luzar. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, allow me to ask you in the context of the current issues concerning the Vrbětice case and what we all live here, information which you, as Prime Minister, are certainly familiar with. As part of the investigation into this case and the information that has penetrated the outside, it is clear that there is a time slip and information that is incomplete in the timeline. The event, which Vrbětice celebrated, however unintentionally and very damagingly, happened seven years ago. The event, which infamous Salisbury, took place in 2018, means four years later. And since then, the secret services have known who is under the identity that the British Secret Service has published in the media, and at least the Czech Secret Service could already have this information and communicate it, or if the data that led to the identification of those who were moving there in Vrbetice knew the Czech Secret Service before the case took place in England, then whether it communicated this information to the friendly secret services so that they could respond. According to the fact that after the attack in England these two agents, who were supposedly suspected of causing it, could have left and disappeared in the world, probably did not have this information exchange. So I ask how BIS reports are continuously checked, how they are evaluated, how these secret services are tasked, and if you, as Prime Minister or Government itself, have this information available, read in these reports, and do BIS so that there are no such errors. And I'm sorry, I consider it a big mistake to the BIS because she knew the identity of these people and kept her mouth shut for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing. Mrs Karla Maříková, Mrs Maríková, will prepare Tomáš Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Prime Minister, you helped obtain 10,000 packs of medicine to support OCVID-19 Ivermectin treatment from Bulgaria for St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno, which according to the information, and patients who took Ivermectin did not get into serious condition and could be released from the hospital earlier. So it seems to me as a matter of course that the media are informing the public about this drug. I was surprised, then, that the State Institute for Drug Control is in danger of a diary. The right to fine up to half a million crowns for his articles on Ivermectin. In the call of 16 April addressed to the publisher of the Law, it states that "The Institute is currently investigating the complaint concerning advertising promoting medicinal products for human use containing the active substance Ivermectin, whose assignment, processing and dissemination may be contrary to the law'. Mr. Prime Minister, how do you feel about the position of the SÚKLU, which clearly wants to defend informational activities? Are we going back to a time when newspapers are being punished for news or opinions that are not appropriate to anyone? Why SÚKL didn't intervene in the case of the journal Right for positive articles about the very expensive monoclonal antibodies of Bamlanivimab or the drug of the American company Regeneron? Is it due to the high price of these new drugs, or is it about someone's interests? And why don't we do a study in our state on Ivermectin? I'm sure it'd be more beneficial than blown money for a hospital in Letňany. According to the available information, you were interested in doing such a study for Isoprinosine a year ago. But why did it go away?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u21	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek will now present his intervention. Ambassador Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u22	Six waves of loosening up, priorities are schools, pubs and theaters will be the last. No more PES table, but six waves of release. This is the latest plan of the Ministry of Health to proceed with a weakening epidemic. MF TODAY had the opportunity to look into the upcoming proposal. Dear absent Prime Minister, this is the beginning of an article with exclusive government information from early this morning, in which you are also quoted. The information is certainly of interest to many Czech citizens, so it seems strange to me that the only way people can get the information was through an article behind the paid iDNES portal gate. Since iDNES falls under Mafru from Agrofert, which, as an Andrej Babiš citizen, you own through trust funds, I want to ask if MAFRA has any preferential access to government information? Since the text was placed behind the paywall of iDNES Premium, such a preference of the Prime Minister's media, which then publishes the exclusive information to readers for consideration, would be another abuse of conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u23	Thank you. And now I will ask Mrs Richterová to prepare Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u24	Dear absent Prime Minister, one more long-term issue and a topic for long-term preparation, which is strategic and whether you, as a government, are preparing in any way for the need to continue vaccinations from autumn? Some countries are already planning plans for a situation that, on the one hand, changing strains or mutations of the virus or due to the drained immunity, it would be necessary to continuously vaccinate against the covid and related others. So there are countries that are preparing for this possibility that roughly 12 000 people per day should be vaccinated in terms of our conditions, and in addition to these capacities, which are purely preventively planned, it is also a question of how to approach those experiences that we are collecting now, because given the massive vaccination, there will again be more experience of how the response reports are being reported and the possibility of reducing the number of undesirable effects when they are thoroughly analysed and data are collected consistently, for example, for people at risk and for those events that occur. And that is why I want to ask if you want to think equally strategically about strengthening so-called specialized vaccination centres, which have been significantly staffed in recent years? This is a way to ensure safe vaccination of a number of risk groups. It seems to be a purely medical topic, but it isn't. Since we have a pandemic here, we can see that this concerns the entire society and that the expensive lockdown is due, among other things, to the fact that we are not yet so capacitively prepared, and in the future we should definitely be prepared. That's why this interpellation, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u25	Thank you, Madame. Last interview to Prime Minister and Government of the Czech Republic, Member Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u26	Dear Prime Minister, we are currently going through a great cooling down of relations with the Russian Federation. I don't think there's anyone here who's a little concerned with nuclear technology to believe that Dukovan will be able to build, because the only one who's able to deliver this reactor that's required there is Rosatom. You may contradict me, but I think that all those who know the technique a little bit and know what it's all about will give me the truth. The tender is over. Moreover, there is great pressure from the European Union on rapid decarbonisation. This is supported by some political parties, and in the sense of the word, it is as quick as possible to shut down coal power plants. Here I would like to say that this proposal goes beyond not only the framework of environmentalization, but it enters into security. Energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic is an absolute necessity, I hope we are all aware of that, and we do not have compensation for coal power plants. Here, as a KSČM, we strongly, strongly point out that it does not make sense from a climate or ecological point of view to replace coal with gas when the combustion of gas has a similar environmental burden to the use of coal. It is pointless to subsidize the construction of gas resources and infrastructure seems wrong from this point of view too. Moreover, the vast majority of gas, as you know, is imported from Russia. Increasing the country's energy dependence and paying for it quite significant means is economic suicide. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that this winter coal power plants produced 50 percent of all electricity consumption of the Czech Republic and coal is still heating up more than millions of households. You can't mess with this. It must be one of the absolute priorities at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u27	Thank you for strictly keeping the time, Mr. Ambassador, and that was the last of the interviews. Please note that when all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted, oral interventions on other members of the Government will immediately follow. Of them, of course, I have the overwhelming majority of my apologies. I will therefore ask Mr Jan Jakob to give an interview to the Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Ambassador Ivan Adamec will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear absent Minister of Health, I would like to ask you about the situation regarding the infirmary for parents who are from the Integrated Rescue System. There was a system under way here, which, of course, with your special measure of the Ministry of Health of 6. 4. 2021 has changed. Schools opened up and, of course, for some IZS parents. They're running out of school. However, the others, for which the school facility is designated by the county, still reach these facilities, however, they are ripped out of the team of their classmates and often they cannot be taught online in the original collective. At the same time, it's not quite clear what's going on with the infirmary. Therefore, I want to ask you how it really is, whether parents from the IZS can draw medical care on those children for whom schools are not open in the standard way at the moment. At the same time, we've extended a circle of relatives who can draw medical attention. I'm asking if the relatives of the IZS parents can benefit from this infirmary? I wonder if the representatives of the IZS who are working hard at the moment are in an unequal position compared to others? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing within 30 days. Mr Ivan Adamec has the floor now. Member Jaroslav Holík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u30	Thank you. Mr President, dear absent Minister. I'd like to ask you a question about the registration of drone pilots heavier than a quarter kilo. The registration was mainly due to drone expansion, but unfortunately it also applies to modellers, where modeling associations or clubs can apply for an exception for two years at UCL, but most modellers are not registered in this way and wanted to register their models and themselves as a pilot. We've come across a problem that until now it's been possible to log in classically under his name, under his identification data. Now they require electronic identification, which I don't think the natural person needs to have. The attitude is very difficult. Most modelers are middle and older, and they just don't log in. The change is supposed to inspire your ministry, so I'd like to ask why, because it goes against the sense of registering all pilots, including air modellers. Then why did you order it, and why is it necessary to do so? The login is really very difficult. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u31	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav Holík has the floor now, he will interpel the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Mrs Karla Maříková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u32	Dear Minister, all children in the Czech Republic who learn at the first level of primary schools are tested at COVID-19. Only pupils with negative results can participate in the presentation. So why is teaching done in respirators, and the violation is fined? Some subjects, such as Czech, English, require a clear pronunciation. From my point of view, children are unnecessarily restricted, and it doesn't even testify to mass teaching. The respirator is not comfortable for children, it reduces the oxygen supply the child's organism needs. Dear Minister, when will the situation or the attitude of the Ministry of Health change? Likewise, when will the attitude of county health stations change and children tested negatively not have to wear a respirator? Dear Minister, schools should primarily serve as education for pupils and not as testing centres.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u33	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková will now bring her intervention to the Minister of Health, and Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, laboratories in the Czech Republic have accreditation which guarantees the quality of test results. Antigen tests used by employers or children in schools do not even have Czech certification. What, then, is to guarantee us the quality and safety of Chinese antigen tests? Is this a guarantee from a producer in China or a Chinese certification when products from China are often defective and poor quality? For example, we can see this on toys from China that in many cases do not pass the quality of tests due to the content of harmful substances. If you're so worried about protecting the health of our citizens and our children, why didn't you run tests on the quality and reliability of these tests? When are you going to run tests on the reliability of the MEDICAL LEP and all the tests that are in the storage facilities of the state's material reserves? And when are you going to create a list of recommended tests that will guarantee the quality of your ministry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u35	Thank you. You will receive the answer in writing. Mr Ferjenčík will give his interview to Minister Karel Havlíček. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the procedure of the government in which you are a minister in relation to retail trade is unlawful. The Pandemic Law does not allow for the flat-rate conclusion of the retail trade which the government is now doing under its measures. For this reason, your procedure is illegal. I therefore wanted to ask you to enforce and enforce an accelerated retail opening in the government, under strict antiepidemic conditions, of course. I'm afraid if you don't, you'll be more of a Minister of Industry and the liquidation of retail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing within 30 days. Mr. Leo Luzar, Mr. Vlastimil Válek, will now present his interview with Minister Karel Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u38	Dear Minister of Industry and Trade, allow me to ask you with the same question as I asked the Prime Minister for an answer. Together you visited the company Liberty Ostrava. This House did not have the opportunity to hear on its point, which was approved on Tuesday, about the results of your negotiations. So far we have some information from the trade unionists and their demands, we have no information on how the situation is developing and what you, as a representative of industry and trade in this business, have negotiated. We would also like to know what is the situation within the supervisory bodies of this company, in which representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade are meeting, should have the most up-to-date information on the development of the situation in Liberty Ostrava and what other matters are going on. I therefore beg you, unlike the Prime Minister, to extend this information to include this information concerning the specific functioning of the company. You should have this information at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mr Vlastimil Válek will present his interview to Minister of Health Petr Arenberger, Mr Jan Skopeček will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u40	Dear absent Minister, I would ask you very much to inform us, as Members, about the composition and structure of these expert groups - whatever they are - to the Ministry of Health and what they are responsible for. The reason is simple. We are adopting a number of legislative standards here, which you then torpedo with various measures of the Ministry of Health. This one torpedoing was said here, when basically participants or members of the Integrated Rescue System are not entitled to the Czech Republic. They have a huge problem with this, and the question is whether you have consulted the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports at all about whether you have consulted and which conditions are therefore respected for the education of those children. It is not possible to issue measures and then not to find out how the measure will be implemented in practice and whether it can be implemented at all. I think it is your duty to discuss with the relevant interministerial minister how the quality of the teaching will be done, how it will be ensured. The same applies to the opening of universities where we wanted this, we appealed to it, but by your methodical instruction, you deform the opening so much that it will be very difficult for a number of students to test themselves daily or to wear respirators in practice. Besides, it doesn't have a logic. The Rectors don't like it, and they don't really know who to turn to, because something else is the Minister of Resort, who issues the measures, and something else that you're issuing as a methodical order from the Ministry of Health. We experienced this dichotomy already in the spring, when the Minister of Education and the Minister of Health said different things and were unable to agree, and I would like it to stop. Therefore, I ask for clear information on the composition and number of those expert groups and for them to be responsible for their expert recommendations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u41	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček will now present an interview to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u42	Thank you for the floor. Also the absent minister - perhaps, Mr President, you could send a letter to the government that, although we were discussing a five-week vacation here next week, it has not yet been approved. Behind me on that bench, it looks like the ministers have been acting on that five-week vacation. I want to ask the Minister what he's saying and what he's going to do with a situation where interest on ten-year government bonds is rising. Since the beginning of the year, they have increased from 1.2 to 1.9. This looks very low, but the trajectory is pronounced. This means that the government debt service is going to cost significantly. If the interest were to stop at the current level, but no one expects it, compared to the previous year it will be CZK 12 billion more on the costs that the taxpayer will pay for the service of the state debt. I believe that part of this increase goes, of course, at the cost of covido, but I believe that much of this increase goes to Minister Schillerová, respectively, this government. On the one hand, they did not make any attempt, even to make symbolic savings in the state budget. The second thing that I believe is behind this and why investors are punishing us is that Minister Schillerová's inability to come up with a plan to consolidate public finances. Even in the official documents of the Ministry of Finance, it says that a concrete consolidation strategy is to be prepared by the next government, but that is not true. We just have a secretary today who should be doing her job. She is the Minister of Finance and is responsible for presenting at least a plan to consolidate public finances. Otherwise, the markets will punish more, and the costs will go and go to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. It is now Mr Vojtěch Munzar's turn to intervene on Minister of Health Petr Arenberger, Mr Polanský will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u44	Thank you. I am very unlucky with my interpellation, because last time, the Minister of Health was not present, nor was he present today. Those empty chairs behind me clearly show one thing. I understand that the government can sit, but it should also weigh how the House meets, because the government is responsible from the Constitution for its legislative power and so far it does not seem that way. So I'm going to do this differently than I originally wanted, this interpellation to the Minister of Health. I wanted to ask him how he respects the will of legislative power because, for example, on 26 March as the House, we called on the Minister of Health to modify the regulation of the Ministry of Health on wearing protective equipment, or drapes, respirators so that the obligation is not in the built-up territory of the community when a person is alone on the street. Since 12 April, a new regulation has been in force, but nothing has changed in this regard. So I wonder, Minister, what the House resolution means to you at all, and I might ask you whether you asked the President of this House how important the House resolutions are and whether the House President considers the House resolution to be important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u45	Thank you. Unfortunately, I cannot answer the question in this position of the President. I agree with you a lot. Mr Polanský - I do not see him in the hall, so we will continue to interpel Mr Petr Bendl, who - but now there is a change - is intersecting the present Minister Richard Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am so lucky, and I am glad that the Minister of the Environment is here, and I want to turn to you on the issue raised by the amendment to the new Water Act, which provides for the use of so-called grey water. We are in a situation where the Czech Republic, however it looks on the outside - and I think the public perceives it - so that suddenly the water is enough. It's not really, we just don't have agricultural droughts, but the bottom water, we have to think about it all the time. Using grey water is definitely part of this system of debates about the management, the rational management of water. Water law defines the possibility of using grey water by filling only for housing objects, up to a volume of about 15 cc, which causes problems in particular for small producers, small companies that have their sewage treatment plants and do not have large volumes of water that discharges which are not chemically damaged, have no negative substances, yet it is not possible to use them by filling them in, but must take them into watercourses. I would like to address you, Minister, with a request that we be able to deal with this in some way. I think it's too bad. For one thing, it limits small production, especially agricultural products, I mean small dairy plants and so on, it limits the production of Czech food, and it also takes the opportunity to use this water in such a way that... because it is not... environmentally polluted. [[Chairman Vondraček: Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you for your response, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u47	I thank you and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I will respond to the fact that my colleague and I have already talked about this for a short time. The reason - and my colleague Bendl will remember, she had the debate during the last amendment to the Water Act, which is relatively fresh, and of course the debate was also in the committees, both in the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Agriculture. And in the end, the opinion has prevailed - and I am not saying that it is definitive, but in this situation, and there has also been agreement between both ministries that there is always a major priority for the protection of groundwater, and in this context the possibility of indirect discharges of purified - and now I say - industrial waste waters, in industrial quotation marks, has been very complicated to distinguish what type of waste water - even if it is from small plants - could be done to eliminate the risk of negative substances that can remain in that grey water. And here you could actually say that there would probably not be a problem of grey sewage or grey water from some part of the plant, that is, for example, cleaned sewage water, which would be produced by employees, but the big problem was with operational waste water, where it is really complicated to specify what plants, what types of operations are so-called safe from the composition of the waste water and which are no longer. And that's why, in the end, the opinion was won that grey sewage from the point of view of their possibility of soaking should be where the real grey water is, let's say, from the employees, that is, the ones that drain classically from the washbasins, washrooms, bathrooms and so on, but no longer the grey water operating. In other words, that was the main priority at the time, why the opinion was won not to allow it to be injected in the framework of the protection of the top priority of the protection of groundwater from industrial waste water, whether without quotation marks or with quotation marks, in the case of small plants. Undoubtedly, this debate will continue with another amendment to the Water Act, and it is possible that until then it may outweigh the arguments that... but it would be good to know very well how to specify for which small operations it would be safe for. If that's all it takes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u49	Thank you. I ask, is the Member interested in an additional question? That's right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u50	You are right, we have discussed this in detail, because European legislation allows us to expand the use of grey water. I'm glad that I don't hear the essential thing here, not that it's gonna have to be able to find the divide and separate those who are potentially dangerous from those who are basically problem-free, and that we might be able to accommodate them in our own interests, because not only to protect the water, but also to protect it. We can protect her so that we don't have any, yeah, so looking for the conditions under which it is possible, I find a reasonable way. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u51	I thank you and the Minister has the opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u52	It's really just a supplement. I remember a debate in Israel where we were just discussing with colleagues who are the furthest in the world from the point of view of purified waste water, waste water recovery and grey waste water. They themselves said that even in a situation of complete lack of water, even though, of course, the Izraelec now have a lot of desalination and use more of salty sea water, but that just before desalination became completely common and also price-competitive, so farmers and society had a rather big problem using the grey water and its seepage because it was simply treated as water really dirty. In the Czech Republic in recent years - and I dare to say that much thanks to the Ministry of the Environment - the concept of grey water has been experienced, it has not become something that everyone was afraid of, and already today - and I would take it as a start, a very good start to the specific debate - today you know that there are also developers' projects that already use grey water, and therefore the grey water from the point of view of hygiene, the Ministry of Health and others become a commodity that needs to be considered and which was previously taken as a classic waste water that needs to be cleaned at the cleaners and which in no way should be contained. I think it's shifted, it's definitely shifted, and it could be another shift, just until we can specify the operations where there's really no risk of a minimal or no risk of any harmful components getting into the groundwater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u53	I thank you and another interview - also for the Minister of the Environment - will be given by Mr František Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u54	Thank you for the floor. honourable Member, honourable Members. Minister, I would just like to ask you a few questions about the fact that the CENIA is now moving from the premises directly owned by the Ministry of the Environment to commercial rent. The lease was concluded at the end of March. I found out about it last night, and I found out a few things strange. So I wonder why CENIA now, at the time of the pandemic, decided to start this move and burden the state budget with additional costs of over CZK 44 million, which is about a fifth of this organization's budget at all. If the main reason was the intention of the Ministry to implement the reconstruction, as I learned from the Director, the reconstruction of the existing premises, I wonder when this reconstruction will start, when it will be completed and for what the Ministry intends to continue to use the premises when it cannot use the CENIA now. And I also wonder why there are disadvantageous conditions in the contract, because if CENIA wanted to terminate it, it would still have to pay 65 percent of the remaining rent for the rest of it. And it's also very strange that the real owner isn't actually traceable at the firm, so maybe to disprove the argument, I'd ask the Minister here if he could make it public with an appeal to the direct effectiveness of the directive against money laundering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u55	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u56	Thank you. So my colleague Navrkal, as I found out, has already discussed this quite in detail with Mr. Director Havránek of CENIA, so I assume he already has a number of information. I just repeat: firstly, the plan was established quite a long time ago, and at least from the point of view of CENIA - and CENIA, which I'm sure Mr. Havránek told you, was always in commercial premises before 2012, and the move to the Ministry of the Environment was considered a temporary option. CENIA has about 100 employees today and it will be very likely to expand in connection with other projects, but the main reason was that from the outset, from the point of view of, say, office space per employee and other conditions, with further reductions occurring during the last and this year, so CENIA was actually quite significantly limited by the very employees. As the Ministry of the Environment took over some of the agendas of people from the Office of the Government, sustainable development and others, so otherwise we reduced the number of employees in general over the years, so we had to accept some other people who are sitting in the premises of Copenhagen Street today and not directly in Vršovice. In Vršovice 65 as headquarters we have about 480 employees, but the main reason was that The Ministry of the Environment, as it is actually organized today, basically does not have room or would not have room for one essential thing, and that is the preparation of the Presidency. Because the Presidency, whether in the form of videoconferencing, we will see how it will be by then, in 2022, so we simply know what the right to administrative facilities will be. We ourselves will have to take dozens of other people to the Presidency, and I can say that these people wouldn't fit in there anymore, but there aren't even meeting rooms at the Ministry that dimensioned historically because the object was created in some way. And that's why, in the end, CENIA decided on its own rent, which should be quite close, at least according to my information, because the specific selection of the company and the others didn't go directly through the Ministry of Environment, the details. But what's important is that the CENIA move, so of course, at the first moment, we first approached the government dislocation committee. That means we wanted to use another government object or state object. Unfortunately, it turned out and we have it, of course, approved by the government dislocation committee, that there is no such object where CENIA with about 100 employees could simply be. And then, of course, the fact that, and you know that, as part of the reflection on the possible creation of a government town in the future, the Ministry of Environment was supposed to be one of the resorts that would be moved. That is, then it was also considered that if the Ministry of the Environment moved from Vršovice 65 to Letňany in any period of five, six or seven years, for example, the Ministry of the Environment would be moving from Vršovice 65 to Letňany, so it would actually be CENIA, even if it chose another object beautifully, it would not be able to return anyway. That is, therefore, at least, as Director Havránek said, the six-year deadline was also chosen and, of course, at the beginning of the conditions were significantly disadvantageous. But the terms, as I know them, that means you were talking about the roughly 40 million, and that's the six-year rent, so at the beginning the company's demand was, of course, completely different, the landlord. The terms of the notice were such that they, in the event of a notice period, which there is an annual notice period plus any penalty, so the penalty was more than 100%, even perhaps 150% of the penalty. Now there's a penalty of 65 percent of the rent left over, and that's over. So they chose the best option from the financial point of view of the offers that were offered. And of course, and that's important, it's been passed by a government dislocation committee, which means it's really been approved, so it's not possible, and we always prefer to use some other object in state ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u57	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u58	Thank you. So you just haven't answered me yet, you said why the reconstruction is being done, but when should it really start? I see it's all been planned out. When will it be finished? So the premises will be used to strengthen the ministry in the interests of the EU Presidency? But that's not going to happen right now, so I'd be interested in the time frame, how it's going to work out, and if it all really fits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u59	I give the word to the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u60	I'm not exactly telling you right now, but, of course, I'm going to verify that by turning around, as the reconstruction is currently planned, or exactly when CENIA is moving in. I really don't know. But, of course, we know, as far as the Ministry of the Environment is concerned, that the offices and, above all, the meeting rooms and the background for the Presidency must be prepared, including other technical conditions, that is to say, IT and beyond. That's gonna be the most challenging part of the department today, including the bottom of the department, where two big meeting rooms will be connected, so there'll be a conference room for maybe at least 80, 90 people, because we don't have one at all in the ministry today. This must be prepared with a reserve for the start of the Presidency. I think it has to be at the latest, say, March 2022, but I'm still gonna check if that's enough for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u61	Thank you. Mrs Procházková will give another interview with the Minister of Health. Interpelation number 14 has been withdrawn by the Member, so Mrs Kovářová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u62	Hello, everyone present. Dear Minister, a long time ago, the media and we were informed that rescuers would receive benefits for covido months, just as they were received by the staff of bed facilities. To this day, I have no precise information as to how and how the paramedics will be rewarded for their hard work. It is not true, as I have heard, that she is not so demanding and that we - I also drive an ambulance - with patients only briefly. We don't have the same conditions in the ambulance as in the hospital, and the transports take place remotely, in suits and under much worse conditions than in hospitals. [[15.30 hours]] Dear Minister Arenberger, according to my information, paramedics should therefore be rewarded for their employees for covid months, and it is unclear whether it will be 75 000 or 120 000, as the Prime Minister mentioned. So please specify how, when and how much these rewards will be paid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u63	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. I'm going to ask Mrs. Věra Kovářová. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u64	Dear Minister, on April 12, parents in particular began to be very happy to finally open schools. In doing so, the government ordered pupils to be tested twice a week. It is not only those who have experienced covid in the last 90 days, who have already been tested in the last 48 hours or are vaccinated, as well as pupils with moderate or severe mental disability, concurrent disability with multiple defects or with autistic spectrum disorders who cannot undergo the test for health reasons. Because they don't go to school at all - and they might want to, it would certainly benefit them, but the current form of testing makes it impossible for them to be present at school. Self-testing by a nose swab is often incredibly complicated and unpredictablely stressful for them. On the basis of questions from the Children's Full moon, the Ministry of Education has announced that parents can bring their own test to the school if it is included on the list of approved tests. The child must then be tested directly at school by this test. However, the school may not accept this test and it is not possible in any way to enforce the acceptance of such a test. I would like to ask you this way whether you plan to introduce self-tests from the list of approved tests as alternatives to bar tests so that schools always recognise them everywhere, or vice versa, whether you plan to buy alternative tests directly to school, whether by spit or so-called lollipop tests. I think that the needs of such vulnerable children should be taken into account by the state and treated in a more sensitive way by others. If he ignores them, it's a bad business card for our entire company. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u65	Thank you. You will receive the answer in writing. Mr Marek has the floor Výborný, he will give an interview with the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u66	Dear absent Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, I cannot forgive myself for the sigh and the remark that we had written interpelations in the morning, neither of the ministers came to work. Now we're having oral inhalations. I can understand some heated international situation, but I assume that the Vrbětice case does not have to deal with two thirds of the government's ministers at all, and the fact that they are not here at oral interventions is an expression of contempt for this House. I would like to remind you that the government is responsible for its actions in this Chamber of Parliament - the Chamber of Deputies and they do not come here because of us, but the questions we are giving here are questions to you, the public, the citizens, and the answers are directed to you, not to us Members. This really seems hard to accept. The fact that Minister Brabec sits here just so that negotiations can take place at all is truly incredible. And question: Minister, I would like an answer from you on whether the government is planning to introduce PCR tests into schools soon. At this point, as our pupils gradually begin to return to schools, they are tested by antigenic tests, and your interdisciplinary group MESES and Dr. Šmejkal repeatedly appealed to the government and to you to start applying PCR tests that are gentle in schools, they are conducted from saliva and at the same time they are not a financial burden, because PCR tests that are also more conclusive can be applied at longer intervals of time, which means that they can eventually come out cheaper than antigenic tests. You have repeatedly been called upon by experts to do so. I would like to ask, Minister, when - and it must be in the order of days - these PCR tests will be applied in schools because - and this is also important - they are gentle towards pupils, towards children. I see no reason why the government should not proceed in this way, especially if it is recommended by its experts. [[Your time.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u67	Thank you. Mr. Jakub Janda will now perform with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Mr. Petr Třešňák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u68	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, the coronavirus crisis is perhaps in retreat. But the most affected sectors will not be confused without state aid. The government has prepared a National Recovery Plan that aims to obtain the necessary funding from the Union RRF, i.e. instruments to support recovery and resilience. We are talking about CZK 172 billion in the form of grants and another CZK 20 billion in the form of loans - or otherwise: resources are. But there is no will to help all affected sectors. For example, the development of the cultural and creative sector is among the components of the government plan. I understand culture, especially the non-commercial one, needs to be helped even in quiet times, let alone now. However, I do not understand why there are missing components concerning tourism and sport. These two sectors have been hit most by the crisis, and without state aid, their reboot will become even more difficult. So I ask you, why didn't the sports and tourism sectors think enough in the preparation of the National Recovery Plan? Why did not the comments of the representatives of the sports sector and the National Sports Agency, or the Czech Tourist Union, have been sufficiently taken into account? Is the plan still possible to revise? If not, how do you think these sectors will cope with a restart without this support? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u69	Thank you. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mr. Petr Třešňák, Mr. Kaňkovský, will give his interview to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u70	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, even with this absence, I will try to be as brief as possible. Because the numbers of the infected are gradually dropping and we are slowly approaching life without restrictions, at least with some further dislodgement that we are constantly being questioned by citizens, I have a very brief, simple question that concerns most citizens, when we will be able to take off the respirators in the outdoor environment. This is one of those measures that most citizens most doubt. And if it doesn't happen in the nearest possible time, I hope it will be demonstrated by absolutely clear data and epidemiological justification, why, even in the outdoor environment, protection of the airways should be carried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. I will ask Mr Kaňkovský, who did not expect it to be so fast, unfortunately he is not present in the hall. I shall therefore give the floor to Mrs Richterová to present her intervention to Minister Jana Maláčová. Mr Radek Koten will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u72	Thank you for the floor. I have a few questions for the absent minister, because this is a subject that has not been repeatedly covered by the Committee on Social Policy. It is two directives that we need to transpose from European to Czech law. They concern families, they relate to reconciliation of work and care. The one is called Work Life Balance in English about the alignment and we need to implement it by August 2022. It may seem like it's over a year away, but he's gonna run very quickly that year, plus it's an election year, so if we don't want to face the fat ten-million-dollar penalty for delay, we need to make it. I believe that this directive will be quite widely discussed, because there will be a need to introduce an extension of the non-transferable two months for the possibility of caring for the child by the other parent, as well as a need to reach into the Labour Code. [[15.40 hours]] What's the second directive? This is called transparent and predictable working conditions. This is a directive affecting, among other things, the negotiators. It will need to be adapted there, and again I believe that this will be a very broad debate, an agreement on the implementation of work and work activities. There they are proposed as a solution to the so-called reference clock or days, but it is no longer practically divorced. There it seems that the Ministry does not yet have any idea how it would like to implement it, but it stresses how many other ministries and how many social partners need to be called together and agreed with them. Again there is the same deadline - August 2022 for the final solution. So, Madam Secretary, how specifically do you prepare the implementation of these two directives when the 625 press has not even been proposed to extend the support period to the father's? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u73	Thank you, Madame. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will now speak to the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar. Mr Marek the Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u74	Thank you. Mr President, Mr absent Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have some rather important questions in relation to the Vrbětice case. First of all, why did the DOD rent ammunition to private companies? Second, at what price did the Department of Defense then sell ammunition to private firms, then, as for the army, useless? [[Three.]] What was the reason for the sale of ammunition to private entities, so-called traders? Why does the State itself not carry out this business? [[Four.]] What is the current practice in guarding ammunition and ammunition warehouses located outside military units at present? Whether they are now guarded by the Army of the Czech Republic, or whether it continues to be provided after these excesses by other entities? The case of Vrbětice at the very beginning was probably created because the mentioned subjects or objects were not guarded by the army as it was common in previous years, and it was historically guarded by the Czechoslovak People's Army, so it should now be guarded by the Army of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u75	Thank you, Congressman, and now Mr Marek the Výborný has the floor with his interview. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u76	Dear absent Minister of Health, let me ask you a question and ask for an answer that concerns a gradual return to normal in the field of education. Based on the decision of the government and your ministry, pupils are gradually returning to kindergarten schools. However, at this point, forest nursery schools remain closed and your measures do not affect children's groups at all. So I would like to ask whether and for what reason were these institutions, as forest kindergartens and children's groups, forgotten? For what reason, for example, if attendance in kindergartens was limited to preschool children, this rule is not applied in children's groups as well? I would like to point out that a number of parents are dependent on the service of children's groups and the measures that are justified by a bad epidemic situation do not really make any sense here. Children's groups are limited in principle to 15 children, to 15 people, so I do not see the only reason why children's groups should be harmed in this way. I would also like to remind you that the closure of children's groups means both large and operational and financial problems for children's groups, which have thus entered into situations where they are without income and are at risk of having to cease their activities, their operation. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u77	Thank you. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, Mr Válek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u78	Dear absent Minister of Industry and Trade, let me ask you about the situation currently taking place in Ostrava, and this is the situation in OKD. The transfer of this company from the Priska administration under the Ministry of Finance under the company DIAMO has been completed, which you are in charge of. I wonder what fate is right now within OKD. From one side we have information that there is a significant downturn, from the other side we perceive the need for coal extracted in OKD more and more. I ask: Does OKD already calculate the sales of its product in the event of significant downturns? Is OKD with its customers in order to ensure a heating season of 2021? Again, I point out that black coal is 70 percent important for heating thousands and thousands of households in Ostrava. We are unable to switch to other alternative fuels in the Moravian-Silesian region, everything is directed towards black coal. Here I am no longer talking about central heat supply. OKD is a strategic enterprise, and if we want to reduce coal mining, we have to have an alternative. Gas in the Moravian-Silesian Region is out of the question because it is not brought to this region in sufficient capacity. Minister Havlíček, OKD is fully in your competence, it is also your responsibility to deal with the fact that the rapid decline in the end of the OKD, which has been approved by the government during the holidays, is really to consider how you want to ensure heat for the households of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u79	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing. It is now time for Mr Válek to intercede with his intervention, to give an interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, but Mr Válek is not here at the moment, so the next one will be Mr Adamec. He will intersect Minister Karel Havlíček on the issue of pilot registration. The following interpelation number 26 by Mr Jaroslav Holík - the Member has come to unsubscribe on this interpelation. Well, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u80	Thank you. Mr President, dear absent Minister of Industry and Transport, I am addressing you with the same or similar problem as the Minister of the Interior. It is a registration of pilots of so-called unmanned vehicles over a weight of 250 grams. It's perfectly right that the registration is ongoing. I think the issue of drones is clear to all of us. However, registration also applies to aircraft modellers, and the problem is that if you want to register, you have to log on to the Civil Aviation Authority's website, and suddenly an electronic identity came out of nowhere. Before that it was possible to register in a very common, common way as on any other website. Now you want an electronic identity that makes it more or less impossible to log in to ordinary natural persons. I'm asking why this is the case, because even though modeling clubs have a two-year exception, many modelers aren't so organized, they want to register for themselves, and since most modelers are middle and older today, they just can't handle the electronic identification. I ask why this is so, because we are all natural persons and as individuals we do not need to have an electronic identity at present. I ask you to answer this question or make amends so that air modelers can register without any problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u81	I thank you, Mr Member, and now Mr Radek Koten will interpel the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček. Mr Blaha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u82	Thank you. Mr President, Minister Hamáček, ladies and gentlemen, we are getting a bit of a mess here. In connection with the investigation into the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice, I would have a few questions about the explosion in the ammunition warehouse of the police in Bílina, Chudeřice, from Tuesday 15 September 2020. This warehouse, owned by the Police of the Czech Republic, was a potential threat. Everything was fine until the storage material went up in flames. The subsequent explosion required evacuation of the area and closure of arrivals into the city. [[15.50 hours]] I therefore ask who is responsible for the explosion, what was its cause, whether and how the object was guarded, because, given that the responsible ministers are unable to secure and secure ammunition warehouses even five years after Vrbětice, I would expect that last year, in 2020, even their resignation may be considered under the impression of these events. So I hope that in 2025 it will not appear as a result of an investigation by Pat and Mat with a lighter in hand, but with the code name Čuk and Gek. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive the answer in writing. And now the standard pair, Mr Blaha intersects Minister Brabec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u84	Dear Minister, your only mouth here this week has said what you do not do in the case of Bečva, how you prepare, implement and so on and so on and so on. Don't be mad at me, but in Wallachian Meziříčí, he sees it quite differently. A colleague from Valašský Meziříčí, who describes what is being realized and prepared in Bečva, described in a diametrically different way and points out that the promise that the sewers that lead to Bečva will be mapped remains a promise and nothing happens. You know, we can measure and monitor all we want, but until we know where the poisons are flowing from, it sucks. Mapping the sewers was supposed to be the first basic step. Where are we going with Bečva if we don't know what and where she's coming from? In Valašské Meziříčí, the situation is that the tracking of each of the sewer systems was estimated at CZK 800,000. These, of course, are not in the budget or the cities or surrounding municipalities through which Bečva flows, especially after this year's tough hand. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister: Several times you have said here that you are working on the examination of Bečva and you cannot imagine that something like this should ever happen again. If you really want to find the culprit, mapping the sewers can be the first logical step. As I said before, the city of Valašské Meziříčí and the surrounding municipalities do not have such funds in their budget. So my question is whether the state can help in this matter, whether through a subsidy program or through the support of sewer network managers, to check the sewer systems. These are mainly industrial zones, I'm sure I don't have to explain why. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u86	Thank you for that question, very practical. He kind of surprised me because they really... I do not know who you have spoken to, Mr colleague, through you, Mr President, from Valašský Meziříčí, but it is best to really connect it for a short time, because we are quite intensively communicating with VAK there, I suspect Vsetín, who also makes his measurements there. It is communicated between the town of Valašské Meziříčí, between the water pipes and sewers, between the Research Institute of Water Management and between the Moravia basin. This is very important, because the mapping of the results, according to the words of General Director Gargulák of the Moravia basin, was carried out, even in February. This is the work of the river basin. Not only will the Flood of Moravia, but all the basins. And he tells me that they've finished updating the mapping of all the elements on the Bečva River and that they now have quite up-to-date information about all the discharges. Of course, I'm sure I'll pass this on to the Minister of Agriculture, because it's really a matter of watershed management. We as the Ministry of the Environment in cooperation with the research organization Research Institute of Water T G Masaryk, with whom we cooperate, not only agreed, but also at the costs of the research institute with which we have a contract, so we finance part of their activities, so they actually at my request from January or February, if I am not wrong, from the end of February, measure several times a week on several points on Bečva a few ways - an outpouring from Deza, an outburst from Energoaquy, a outburst from Lhotka now, that is the sewerage where the suspicion of... I think that's the station that's ending, but there's a connected rain drain from the city or from the Lhotka, it's not just from Valašský Meziříčí. So we're doing all of this, directly ad hoc measurements, which we're doing at random, which means no one can prepare for it, no one ever knows where it's going to be measured and when it's going to be measured, which I think is absolutely unique today. I dare say that today Bečva is the most guarded river in the Czech Republic. And now we're preparing - as it happens this morning, Director Urban, Director of the VÚV, informed me that right now with the city of Valašské Meziříčí, with the VÚV and the Moravia basin are already working very specifically on where the continuous monitoring will be installed. So if we're talking about the elements, it's really purely the work of the Moravia Flood. But now I'm not saying it from alibis. We have our functions divided. And we are prepared through the Research Institute of Water Management - because, as the Ministry of the Environment, of course, we do not have the capacity - to cooperate if we get, for example. from the water catchment area - or the VÚV gets a contract from the Moravia basin that they want an in-depth survey of the results, because the mapping is done, so of course the VÚV is ready to perform it immediately. Something similar did, for example, for the Vltava basin. So I'm sure you're right, but these things are happening, and now it's just so that we always have the specific information exchanged, and I'm going to go there in a relatively close time in connection with the continuous monitoring and its implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u87	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u88	Thank you. I'd like to explain. I work with public information. It sounded at the council of Valašský Meziříčí, where Mr. Mayor Stržínek first promised that the water service would map the sewer networks. It's a hole that's not registered anywhere, it's not really known what's connected to it, so it should be monitored, which businesses, or whatever flows into that network. So, Mr. Mayor Stržínek promised that the Water Authority would carry out this kind of monitoring, and at the last council, he came up with the amount that any such release would be, if it were monitored, that it would be the cost of about 800,000. That's why I'm doing this strictly constructively with the question of whether the state can possibly help in this, so if the Ministry of Environment coordinates with the Ministry of Agriculture and, of course, if it's the role of the Moravia basin, it would be good if it were done, because it really doesn't know what's going into it. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u89	Thank you. The Minister will respond to an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u90	Absolutely. I agree with that. And I'm sure I'll be talking to the CEO of Moravia at the latest next week, so we'll agree on this, because the first step that was taken -- they're saying, "We've got it mapped out, which means we know all the good stuff. But the second step, these are so-called birth certificates of those elements, that means not only knowing that it flows there in some particular stretch of the river, but also where it flows from and in what condition it needs to be channeled. That was the Lhota case. So I'm sure you will, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u91	Thank you. I thank the Minister for representing the government here, and we will move on. Now, Mrs Kovářová will intersect the absent Vice Prime Minister Havlíček on the cycle path, round two. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u92	Dear Minister, your explanation of the political need for other priorities of the National Recovery Plan is interesting, but it does not address the European Union's intention to promote clean mobility and the need to build a cycling infrastructure in the Czech Republic, one that will prevent the dangerous movement of cyclists on first and second-class roads. On the bike there are at least 70 percent of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. It is essential to build a backbone network of cycling paths for fast transport between large cities. It is a network of international and over-regional cycling routes. This priority network should be proposed in real regional routes and approved by the Ministry of Transport. This network will have hundreds of kilometers of order in each region. Design, build and maintain these bike paths or cycle paths should be built by cities, municipalities or associations of municipalities and regions. The state should be able to help them. This is an essential issue in the area of clean mobility infrastructure. [[16.00 hours]] However, this is not a tourist issue. I consider the separation of only CZK 600 million from European sources to be a great underestimating of the issue of cycling. This proves a significantly higher allocation of resources to this area, for example in Slovakia of EUR 100 million. Not to mention the high support for this kind of transport in Germany or other Western European countries. The cities, municipalities and regions have hundreds of bike paths in the order of billions of crowns, the regions are preparing concepts, but thousands of cyclists are already on dangerous roads. Do you not think that the Ministry of Transport should respond to this situation in a conceptual, systematic way, and especially to use external, such as European resources? Do you consider the appropriations earmarked sufficient? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u93	Time! Thank you. Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Kaňkovský should interpel now, but I do not see him in the hall, so the interpellation is failing, and please Mr Munzar, who will interpel the absent minister Arenberger on tests in schools. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u94	Thank you. This is a really undignified interview. It's undignified for both us and the government. It is a pity that the government did not plan negotiations until after the end of the interpellation or before the interpelation. It's asking an empty chair for some current -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u95	Ambassador, I should call you to the point after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u96	I'll get to it. Yes, so I want to ask the Minister, who is not here, that we have - when we are in the second week, when the rotational teaching of the first grade of primary schools was, that is, two groups are already being tested and so far the results show very little positiveness - very small seizures of positive children, so I am interested in the Minister's interpretation of these results, why this is the case. I've personally been attacked by two options. Either the tests are wrong, and then I wonder why the government bought such tests, they need to be little sensitive, or there is really such a small positive in school children, and then, of course, I wonder why to continue to insist on rotating teaching and not to allow more children and second graders to go to school faster and speed things up. I want to ask you about that. I'm really interested because of course I have two boys - one in the first grade of primary school, the second in the second year of primary school, and I see all the negative effects that the long absence from school has on them, so I'm really interested in when open schools will be in some more normal mode for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u97	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Procházková, who will interpel Mr Arenberger again on the matter of self-payers at the spa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u98	Dear Minister Arenberger, I have repeatedly asked when it will be allowed to receive post-covide self-payers to the spa. At this point, when the Czech spa is a medical facility and other medical facilities and not only private ones already accept planned patients for performance without restrictions, it is completely incomprehensible that the Czech spa cannot accept these patients by self-paying. Private sector health facilities operate without restrictions all the time. What's the difference between samoblats and these for vouchers? The spa is a health facility, fully adheres to hygiene measures, some even test. I understood closure at a time of restriction of movement between the counties, but now I don't see a single reason. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u99	Thank you, and now, please, Mrs Maříková, who will interpel Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček in the matter of changing the tests. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear absent minister, on the Internet we could see the story of the Info.cz website , when on the outskirts of Prague next to the SOPA market in a workshop full of Vietnamese workers is changing tests for the covid LEPU MEDICAL. The employees of the reporter said they work for GOOD MASK, which has a factory next door. This company supplies the state with antigen tests for covid to schools. How is it possible to unpack and repack original packaging? Are the police handling this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u101	Thank you and I now ask Mr Výborný to interpel Mr Plaga on the revision of the RVP and the impact on schools during the time of Coronavirus. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent Minister of Education, I would like to open the theme of the revision of the framework education programmes. By your decision, the first part of the so-called small revision of the framework education programmes was approved at the end of January of this year at the time of the culminating Coronavirus crisis, with the fact that schools should start implementing it from 1 September of the school year 2021/2022. I do not want to contradict in any way the need to revise the framework education programmes, eventually KDU-ČSL has repeatedly pointed out that it is necessary to work on these matters, but the adoption or approval of your first step in this matter is somewhat strange. First of all, there was no previous expert debate, which was stopped in 2020, and in 2021, out of the blue, you came to an end and to the announcement of the first small revision of the framework education programmes. I consider this to be a not-quite-happy move. I am convinced that we should go back to the expert debate with the various industry groups. I can also talk about reservations on the part of a number of institutions, including, for example, teaching faculties, and I would also like to ask that, at a time when teachers are under the strain of the COVID-19 situation, they do not receive yet a very simple homework for summer holidays, and that is to rework the framework education programmes into the form of school education programmes. I consider this unfair to teachers, to educators, and I would ask you to postpone the effectiveness of the start of the first wave by one school year, until September 1, 2022. Thank you for your response and for your compliance and response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u103	Thank you, and now please Mr Koten, who will interpel Mr Arenberger on the subject of antibodies versus vaccinations. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u104	Thank you. Mr President, Mr absent Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen, I think that after more than a year the Ministry of Health and experts should set an IGG antibody limit limit limit with which a citizen will be considered immune to the SARS-CoV-2 virus. So far, the experts' recommendation is 20 UA/milliliter. It should also be laid down that persons meeting this value will not be subject to further unnecessary restrictions from the antibody test and will not be forced to use unnecessary vaccination. It is also necessary to publish information on symptom reinfections from statistics. Please explain to me why people with antibodies to cyclic testing are being subjected. According to experts, it is high time to develop other methods to determine the so-called cellular immunity so that the immunity of the individual and the population as a whole can be better evaluated in the future. For example, we have a department for such research at St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno, led by Mrs. RNDr. Irena Koutná, ph. I would therefore like the Ministry of Health to prepare a concept of further research in this area, and I would like you to provide me with some information in this context. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u105	Thank you and now Mr Luzar, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, will interpel in the Temelín case for Dukovany. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u106	Hello, Minister Havlíček, in this interview I would like to ask you an alternative, an alternative to building Dukovan. We now know that you are excluding Rosatom, who is the only real one able to meet our conditions. The assignment that was clearly directed was that we needed a nuclear block of 1,200 megawatt, not more. The only person who is able to meet this condition is Rosatoma, Westinghouse would be able to supply such a technology with less power, but is unable to implement this construction. Other suppliers only have larger reactors. But the original idea was to start building Temelín. If you recall correctly, under Prime Minister Nečas, there was talk of Temelín. This tender has been abolished, which is why there has been an effort to implement Dukovany. By not being able to be realized by the technology that is ready today, we have only one option to return to Temelín, where even a larger power block can be realized. I ask: Do you have this plan (b) already prepared, do you consider it? Or are you going to change the whole energy concept? The original deadline for completion of Dukovan 2035 is now completely unrealistic. I ask again: Do you have a plan b) and are you able to implement Temelín? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u107	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will intersect Minister Arenberger in the matter of not caring for caregivers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u108	Dear Minister, a week ago, I interviewed you about the priority vaccination of people caring for chronically ill patients in their home environment. The Ministry originally stated that caregivers will be vaccinated together with the second group of chronic patients with lower risk, but the current information is that they will be vaccinated at a later stage. You told me that you had a problem with how to define a group of carers and that you were unable to determine the number of people in this group. Allow me to follow your answer, as this topic is still up-to-date and burning for all carers who are afraid of getting infected and their chronically ill relatives will not have anyone to care for. Chronic patients are dependent on their care and help. According to many doctors, vaccination of chronic patients is also a mistake, but on the other hand, the non-inoculation of caregivers is also a mistake. For if a caring person has a severe course of disease, it is nice that vaccination protects a chronic patient from the disease itself, but it does not protect him from the failure often all day long care provided by the caring person. That is why I ask you again, Minister: Have you made any progress in trying to define carers, or will their priority vaccinations really fail at this point? I note that the proper grasp of this problem is important not only at the moment, but it cannot be excluded that it will be beneficial even in the future, when we can be confronted with a similar pandemic. I don't know if we're going to learn anything from the current one, but if we could at least define who the carers are, I'd like to. Will you please take a look at this, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u109	Thank you. And now I ask the lady of the house to interpel Mr Arenberger again in the matter of testing in schools. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u110	Dear Minister, the gradual return of children to schools is conditional on the need to undergo regular antigen tests. However, after the first few waves of testing, it appears that the antigen tests used are often unable to identify the infection of COVID-19 disease and are less reliable than PCR tests which detect much larger levels of infection in a comparable large population sample. In the past, there have been many trials that have compared the effectiveness of antigenic and PCR tests. Remember the primary schools in Sedlčany, where pupils tested various sets of antigenic and PCR tests, with PCR tests clearly proving to be more effective. A similar experiment was carried out in Prague 6, where PCR and antigen tests of 380 pupils were tested in February, and PCR tests also proved to be more effective in this case. In addition, they are more gentle, reliable, and given that antigen tests must be taken twice a week and cheaper. Schools, parents of pupils, municipalities and regions would like to use PCR tests that are more sensitive but less susceptible to false positive results instead of antigen tests. Dear Minister, aren't you thinking of replacing two antigen tests a week with one PCR test? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u111	Thank you. And now please Mr Luzar, who will interpel the Vice Prime Minister Hamáček on the state of the investigation of the Imex Group of Ostrava. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u112	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister of the Interior Hamáček, after seven years of involvement of Imex Group in the explosion in Vrbětice, this company deserves the results of the investigation that took place in Vrbětice. Today we are witnessing a clear condemnation of the attack of alleged Russian agents on this warehouse, but for seven years this company has been convicted, convinced that there has been an accident, that there has also been a fire caused by the ignorance of the weapons, explosives, the ignorance of the number of weight and other matters of the material stored. The company's been investigated, we don't know the outcome. I ask: Did Imex have all the export permits in order? Was Imex in order to revise the storage areas, to revise the fire-fighting facilities, to revise the electricity in these warehouses she rented? Did Imex have an approved quantity in these explosives warehouses? Wasn't there a free violation of security regulations? After seven years of investigation, we should learn how this storage company is and whether there has been a violation of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u113	Thank you. And now, please, Mrs Kovářová, who will interpel Mrs Deputy Prime Minister Schillerová on the issue of beer discrimination. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u114	Madam Secretary, the Consumer Tax Act contains an institute to support small breweries, which have a reduced rate of excise duty as small independent breweries. One of the criteria is the maximum volume of annual beer production up to 200,000 hectolitres. Furthermore, it must not be legally and economically dependent on another brewery. The provisions of Section 82 of the Law on excise duties also allow for the cooperation of more small breweries and, in this case, once again, sets the maximum volume of beer produced for the possibility of applying a reduction of the rate, namely again 200,000 hectolitres. This support for small breweries is granted on the basis of Article 4 of Council Directive 9283/EEC of 1992. Support for small breweries seems very impressive. However, the problem arises when someone, say, a beer enthusiast decides to support local breweries and save them from their demise. It will therefore be the owner of several small breweries across the Czech Republic. These breweries have annual exhibitions in units of thousands of hectolitres and focus only on local clients. They meet the annual production volume, both separately and in the sum. Their connection is therefore only formal through the ownership structure, nor does they own each other. However, despite the fulfilment of the quantitative condition for a reduced tax rate, the tax administrator is charged a tax on the base rate. They are therefore discriminated against other breweries, which can have several times higher production. This example acts for me as discrimination on the part of the tax administrator, which in several cases would have acted against the law, and this has been confirmed by the court. I ask you, Madam Secretary, if there is no reason to change the law, or at least to interpret it. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u115	Thank you. And I beg Mr Luzar, who will intersect Vice Prime Minister Hamáček in the matter of investigation - Bulgarian armory Emilijan Gebrev. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u116	Dear Minister of the Interior, Hamáček, in your press conference, when you announced the findings regarding the explosion in Vrbětice, you informed that weapons were to be exported to Bulgaria during the explosion of the second warehouse and were to explode on the way. However, this information is in direct conflict with Emilijan Gebrev's statement, who denied this and spoke of the fact that these weapons should remain and remain in storage and that he did not plan to export them. [[16.20 hours]] I'm asking where the truth is. Do you have a clear reading? And if this data is not correct, does this question the BIS report that talks about what occurred in Vrbětice that the explosion and terrorist attack occurred? And, Mr. Hamáček, is this also about the fact that this Imex company, which supplied these weapons to the Bulgarian armory, has all the export permits and had a permit to export to Bulgaria? And Mr. Hamáček, do we know where the weapons were supposed to end? You have license records, and you have information on where the weapons were, in theory, not to deny this information by armory Gebrev, and you should be right, should those weapons be terminated? Were they really going to end up in Bulgaria, or were they going to be sold out elsewhere? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u117	Thank you and now Mr Luzar will intersect Minister Kulhánek on communication with the Russian Federation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u118	Dear Minister Kulhánek, your first day in office, and now an interview. Sorry about that. From your communications department, they contacted me and apologized for your absence, and thank you for that. That's why I'm going to abstain from some more extensive debates and I'm just going to try to ask you. All the steps you are currently protecting and speaking as Foreign Minister are being consulted. I assume that this is not only a decision of the Government of the Czech Republic, which has the right to do so, but also that you have information from both the Embassy in Russia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and all things you discuss are consulted with diplomacy experts and experts in the functioning of the diplomatic representations of the Czech Republic abroad. I ask because, of course, it is not just a diplomatic war that is going on, but it is also the fates of thousands of Čech in Russia, the fates of thousands of companies, the fates of others and others who are economically bound to Russia. In the press, it turns out that it's actually nothing, that it's only 2 percent of our international trade. I would like to stress here that this is CZK 100 billion and that it is about us having a good trade balance with Russia, so it is beneficial for us to trade with Russia. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u119	Thank you and now Mr Luzar will interpel Mrs Schillerová on compensation for Vrbětic citizens after seven years. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u120	Madam Secretary, as Minister of Finance, you have the opportunity to respond to the criticisms of Vrbětic citizens who did not receive compensation for the explosions that occurred seven years ago in Vrbětice. Their legitimate requirements were not answered because it was said that the perpetrator was not known and therefore it is not possible to determine to whom to credit the subsequent damage. Now it turns out that the perpetrator has been known for several years, yet because of the work of the secret services, he has remained undercover and people have remained without any claim for compensation for seven years. It is probably imaginary to hope that it will succeed in proving the participation of the Russian Federation in this activity to recover these funds. Therefore, if this finding of the Security Information Service, as presented to the public, is true, I ask you that the Ministry of Finance promptly make compensation for these citizens, there is nothing to wait for, and that the Ministry of Finance recovers any subsequent damage from the perpetrators found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u121	Thank you and finally, Mr Luzar will intersect Vice Prime Minister Hamáček on export permits for arms exports, intermediaries and destination countries of the shipment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u122	Dear Minister of the Interior, allow me to ask you for information about the inspections carried out in the export of weapons and ammunition from the Czech Republic. These permits, export permits, are subject to the approval of the ministerial authorities. In the case of the BIS report, we have learned that these weapons are exported to various traders, such as Bulgarian merchant Gebrev, and there is no record of where these weapons end. I ask you, therefore, to carry out an in-depth analysis and control of all purchase permits and export permits from the Czech Republic and to check that the target country of our weapons is a truly declared country, whether these weapons end in the areas of war conflicts and whether these weapons serve as weapons for terrorist acts. This suspicion still appears in the world, I don't want to remind Dana and others of the African battlefield, where Czech weapons and Czech ammunition appear. So, Minister, please do inventory and control export permits for weapons and ammunition of the Czech Republic, with emphasis on the target country of these weapons, where they end up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-22-ps2017-098-07-005-527.u123	Thank you. I'm saying that we've exhausted all the interpellations, and I'm saying that for today, we're going to end the interpellation negotiations. We have also exhausted the show for today, so we will continue tomorrow, Friday 23. 4., at 9 o'clock, and as the first one is included here point 345, the law on real estate mediation, and then other points from the block of third readings in order point 341,344, 340, 342, 343 and 339. I thank the Minister and all those who have followed us through the interview and interrupt today's meeting of the House by tomorrow 9 o'clock.
