ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 1230/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Madam Secretary, please take the floor. And right after you, he's interested in giving the priority right to Secretary Alena Schillerová. So, please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, I wanted to ask you whether you have seen the debate where the Minister of Transport is sitting and asked by Mrs Moravcová. He asks him on the highway: "Mr. Minister, you want to build another dozen kilometers of new highways next year. Mr. Secretary, how much is this gonna cost? Mr. Secretary, where are you taking the new highways? Minister, why do you want to build new highways now that the budget's in such bad shape? Minister, why do you want to build new highways when people can ride the old highways? Mr. Secretary, was it planned for you to build new highways? Or did you decide to build new highways right now? Minister, shouldn't we be saving up after the covid instead of building new highways?" I think you all know that there was no such debate, and it would be very absurd. However, with pensions, we have this debate every year. Every year, the question here is that we want to raise people who have worked their whole lives, led us into the system, raised us, cared for us when we were little and helpless, handed over our country in this state, so every year, raising pensions is questioned. It is called into question as an investment in human dignity, because that is what raising pensions is for me. Raising pensions, these 300 crowns today, is also a clear signal from the state that the person who worked his entire life will have at least a little dignified pension. That's what we're going to discuss today, and we have to agree that those three hundred a month, three hundred a month above legal valorization, are no big deal. When I was looking at the debate from the past few weeks about how different Members and Members were coming up to raise above legal valorisation, I was ashamed because I clearly recognized the "convincing grandma" video in that time. Many simply keep showing that older people, older fellow citizens, are a burden to us. And I say they're not a burden to us. They're not a burden to us. And nice retirees, nice retirees, don't let them fool you. Don't let them tell you you're a liability to the company. On the contrary. You don't owe anyone anything and you deserve dignified old age and decent pensions because you cared for us when we were really little and helpless, and now we're supposed to take care of you. And, dear opposition, if you really mean it with the investigation, in this honourable Chamber of Deputies, there is a proposal to freeze the salaries of constitutional officials. And if you really mean it, then start saving your money. If the proposal goes through, we have the first quarter billion crowns that can be saved, and we don't have to spare on those who can't defend themselves. I beg you, ladies and gentlemen, to approve this proposal at an accelerated reading. The reasons are clear. We still have, despite the record increases from past years, 600,000 old-age pensioners who have a pension of less than 14,000. I would like to point out that there are 90,000 people among these people who can't even reach 10,000. I wish you could try to live on at least one month of these sums. The second main reason is lower valorization than we've been used to in previous years. [[14.20 hours]] You know that the increase in pensions since January 2020 was mainly due to high wage growth. Real wage growth was close to 6 percent in 2018, 4 percent in 2019, but real wages increased by only 1.2% in 2020. This year we are based, or higher valorisation is mainly based on price growth. Therefore, and this is the second main reason, it is necessary to add beyond the current valorisation. And if you are interested in this - I judge from the hustle especially in the right part of the spectrum of the House - so according to current estimates, legal valorisation would be only CZK 458 and this is half of what seniors and seniors have been used to in recent years. And I'm really not going to stop saying that our parents built this country, they deserve decent pensions after a lifetime's work, which is why we propose those three hundred a month above legal valorisation. I, honourable legislators, beg you to support this law in an accelerated reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u3	Now I'll read two apologies. Mr František Kopřiva apologizes for working reasons all day and then Mr Pavel Růžička apologizes from today's meeting. So now with priority rights right after the Minister wishes to speak with Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, then please prepare the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Lenka Dražilová. So, Madam Secretary, you have the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, for the government as its Vice-President, to mention several reasons why we are before you today with a proposal for an additional increase of CZK 300 per month in excess of legal valorisation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u5	The Minister is asking for peace of mind, so I, from my point of view, ask for peace of mind in the Chamber so that the Minister can express himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. - And that, as you know, is in the form of a fixed sum to help people who have lower pensions. Whether someone likes it or not, the standard of living of our seniors is a long-term priority for this government, which you have also introduced into your programming statement. Since the beginning of our term of office, we have therefore increased pensions significantly and regularly. While the average pension amounted to CZK 11 745 in 2017, it should reach CZK 16 195 next year with the adoption of this adjustment. Compared to 2014, when the average pension was barely 11,000, it is an annual average improvement of over CZK 62,000 per person. I will remind you that in the crisis year 2021, our pensioners averaged an increase of CZK 839 a month. Of course, the main reason was to live up to what we promised when we joined the government, so that the average old-age pension would exceed CZK 15,000 a month, which was managed by the pandemic despite. Just as we discussed in the context of the pandemic that businesses were closed to businessmen, small and large enterprises, closed schools, reduced production and de facto stopped most of the services provided by the private sector, so we similarly approach pensioners. Let us remember that, as a compensatory bonus, we paid back to the self-employed CZK 40 billion, shareholders in small limited liability companies another billion. In addition, we added a bonus for people to the agreement on the performance of work and work activities. Firms have the opportunity to draw Antivirus programs, which all three together have already cost more than 58 billion crowns. In addition, self-employed persons had deferred advances on social and health insurance, did not have to pay a minimum premium for six months, we forgot the June advance on income tax of natural and legal persons, we carry out a lot of individual deferrals of tax payments. Together, only these delays amounted to CZK 40 billion at the end of May. We have introduced a programme which compensates for part of the rent, specific areas of the economy such as culture and spa have received their own support. Firms and entrepreneurs benefit from preferential credit and guarantee products from the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank and Export Guarantee and Insurance Company. At the same time, parents who guarded and learned at the time of the pandemic with their children at home received an increased infirmary throughout the school closure. We invest massively to move the economy, demand, encourage consumer appetites and people's expectations. We reduced taxes to employees in a way that brought them up to thousands of crowns a month extra on their net wages. At the same time, this has relieved employers who often did not have the means to move towards otherwise normal wage increases. Therefore, especially at this time, we must not forget that the citizens who raised us are also living with us, providing us with a home and who do not work for objective reasons, so that they cannot improve their family budgets by making a profit. It's a good thing the elderly didn't come out of a corona pandemic beaten. In doing so, I reject the link between maintaining the standard of living of today's pensioners with the begging of future seniors. Our pension system is ongoing, and it represents the highest certainty existing and future pensioners can have about their pensions. It is a system fully integrated into the state budget, where pensions represent mandatory expenditure. To put it simply, it means that the state guarantees people their pensions. Yes, we will not be able to prepare pension reform by the end of the term. But let's face it, no government has done so in the last 30 years. It requires extreme consensus across the political spectrum so that it does not happen that the next election will be won by someone who cancels it again in turn. And we just didn't have that kind of comfort during the pandemic. However, I remind you that the next government will not start pension reform from scratch. We have a good basis for it in the form of an OECD analysis, which brings a comprehensive view of the state of our pension system and a number of expert conclusions of this independent authority, most not surprising. We have complicated calculation of pensions, we need to ensure the financial sustainability of the system e.g. By adjusting the tax mix, of course, so that the tax burden of employees, businessmen and companies does not become excessive at the expense of the pension system and that we remain a competitive country attractive to investors. Finally, I would like to say that I certainly do not think that this higher valorisation represents a burden that our public finances cannot afford, as I sometimes hear from opposition Members. Yes, the 390 billion deficit is truly astronomical, but it is justified by objective reasons. The priorities of the budget are, in addition to savings on the operation of the state, investment in a record amount of CZK 189 billion, growth in pensions, which I believe you will support today, maintaining a lower 15 percent taxation of employees, increasing the discount on the taxpayer by CZK 3,000, but also increasing the number of educators by CZK 4 235, police officers by 1,000 and soldiers by 550. On the contrary, we will say goodbye to hundreds of officials, e.g. in the Ministry of Finance, which leaves 188 employees of the Financial Administration. Of course, the Ministry of Finance envisages a consolidation plan that will reduce the structural balance gradually by half a percentage point of GDP per year. I believe that this pace of consolidation is quite adequate and will not harm the start of the pandemic crisis. This procedure is fully in line with the recommendations of the respected economic workplaces and the European Commission, which published on the convergence programme of the Czech Republic. [[14.30 hours]] Let us not forget that the condition of our public finances is one of the best in Europe. There is therefore no reason or justification for our seniors living in much more indebted countries. Thank you, therefore, for supporting this government proposal. I'm sure we can agree that our seniors deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u7	Now, with priority rights, Mrs Jana Černochová has applied for the ODS club. In the meantime, I will specify an apology, because I had here on the grounds that Mrs Kozlová Lenka apologized for her foreign trip, but it turned out that this was not a foreign trip, but a medical reason to set it right. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't do this often, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues and colleagues, for one favor. I just learned that one of the last war veterans died, airman 311. čs. RAF bomber squadron during World War II Mr.Tomáš Lom, born Tomáš Löwenstein, who would have lived to be 96 years old in August. [[Takes off a mask for lack of oxygen]] I would like to ask the Members of the Chamber of Deputies to honor Tomův's memory with a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u9	Then I will comply with your request and declare a minute's silence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. May the sky be clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u11	Well, let's get on with it. And I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Lenka Dražilová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, both of the Ministers have said the essential thing here, so I am going to confine myself to a brief summary. The bill was sent to us by the Members as a press on 1230 May 31st of this year. The petitioner proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it in the first reading, according to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The draft law contains measures consisting of an exceptional increase of CZK 300 in pensions in 2022. The aim of this measure is to contribute to the improvement of the standard of living of pensioners beyond the general rules for increasing pensions. It has also been said that the government justifies this measure as a response to the fact that the expected increase in pensions will be significantly lower from January 2022 than in previous years. It therefore proposes an additional increase of CZK 300 for all beneficiaries of pensions, i.e. disability and survivors' pensions. The draft law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, as the proposed increase will be based on the government's regulation on increasing pensions in 2022, which the government approves by 30 September of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u13	I am opening a general debate in which, first of all, with priority rights for the SPD, Commissioner Lucie Šafránková, Mrs Adamová Pekarová, and third with priority rights with the opinion of the ODS, Mr Bauer. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you briefly to the opinion of our SPD MP. For our movement, the dignified life of our seniors has been a key programme priority since the very beginning of its existence on the political scene, as well as interest and concern for the standard of living of beneficiaries of all other types of pensions - our disabled, widows, widowers and orphans. That is why we have always supported raising pensions and, of course, we will support it today. However, a simple one-off increase in pensions is not a systemic solution. This is the implementation and approval of the bill from the SPD pen, which would be introduced into the Czech legal and social system by the Institute. minimum income above the income poverty threshold, i.e. roughly at the current level of minimum wage of around CZK 15,000 per month and then in return for all, of course, what will meet the legal conditions. We have already tabled this proposal, but the government of the YES movement and social democracy have taken a negative position on it and refuses to support it. At the same time, he refuses to address the unacceptable situation of tens of thousands of our pensioners forced to live with income below the threshold of not only 15, but often CZK 10,000 a month. A few hundred crowns or rather ten crowns of valorization once a year will not help these people significantly. The SPD movement will, of course, support this year's increase in pensions, although our idea of it is different. In particular, we consider it unfair that the government's proposal does not once again guarantee an increase in pensions for all by the same amount, on the contrary, pensioners with the lowest incomes should again be given less. And even the overall amount of this proposed increase in pensions seems low to us. Citizens who have worked honestly for our society and the state all their lives, in the opinion of the SPD, deserve a more respectable expression of our respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u15	So now, with priority rights, the President of the TOP 09, Mrs Pekarová, will speak and prepare with the opinion of the ODS Club, Mr Bauer. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u16	Madam Secretary, honourable Members, honourable public, I think that this evergreen, which we are discussing here virtually every time there is an election coming up, and it is always coming every year, is something that we are accustomed to in some way. But what you can't get used to is the bourgeoisness with which, with a smile, the calm voice of the lady secretary speaking for the government, she tells us that everything's okay with the public finances, that the rate of debt isn't so bad that there's 2 trillion deficits in six years - 2 trillion in six years... Let's add up what they're proposing and what we've been through last year, this year that the deficit is approved, we all know the outlook by the next few years, so it's really up to 2 trillion crowns... So it's actually all smooth, sunny, cool. After us, the flood... This government has been in almost the same composition in power for the second term. She was supposed to move on with the pension system for eight years and solve his burning problems. To deal with sustainability, a word that may sound not quite pleasant, not quite clear, for many it is not quite clear exactly what it should contain, but it is extremely important. Because we certainly want to afford not only dignified pensions in the future, but the overall dignity of all those who are retired and other residents, and this also assumes funding for the health system, social system, social services, etc. And it also costs a lot of money to the state budget, and that is particularly important for seniors and their quality good life. Therefore, it is not possible to ignore the very questions that Minister Maláčová here has made a bit of a mockery in her introductory words. That is why it is important to look at the overall context and answer what is not entirely pleasant to the government, but where else in the state budget the money is able to save. [[14.40 hours]] And when there was such a paraphrase of discussion shows by Minister Maláčová, I would like to paraphrase a famous Czech comedy - Ball Lightning. I'm sure we all know the scene where the older lady comes in, the grandmother just like that, and she says, "Do you have a basement?" And could I see him? It is often used on social networks in various memes. So I'm asking the paraphrase of this famous movie scene, "Where are your savings?" Can I see them? Because I don't find real effort, real effort to save anywhere. The few dozens or hundreds of official posts, often only spreadsheets, which are not occupied and which are crossed out, may look delightful at first sight, but in fact, there is no great deal of savings. And so it's fair to tell everyone, even the current retirees, that we'll already feel the effects in their lives. If someone is 65, 70 today, then the OECD, the World Bank, the European Commission, the National Budget Board and other economists' capacities warn that after 2030, we are getting into huge problems with our pension account. Your governments can only do these delightful things, these delightful steps, but they could not, either because of courage or incompetence, or because of combination of both, prepare real changes to the system - we can call it reform if you consider that word to be naughty today - and prepare the system to burden more pensioners, the greater needs they will have. It didn't happen. Eight years is short. Eight years is probably too little to prepare for such a thing. So it's a sign that you're not supposed to be in the next government anymore. Because if it's not enough time for you, I don't know how much you really need. We wish as a TOP 09, and we are doing our utmost to ensure that pensions in the Czech Republic are as high as possible with a view to allowing us to finance them not only next year, not only in two years, but also in ten, fifteen, twenty. In short, not just from year to year, but to find solutions for a longer period for all citizens, even those who are not retired today. Let us remind you that in recent years we have been discussing the increase in pensions over legal valorisation. And when it was in years when the economy really prospered very well, when growth was literally record-breaking, employment was record low, and tax collection was therefore high, so we also supported the increase that went beyond. [[unemployment?]] But we have always added that it is necessary to focus on changing the system, that it goes hand in hand together and cannot be separated. And that's your key and fundamental task that you just have. After all, you've written it down as a priority number one in your programming statement. That's not what happened. We know that. There isn't even a chance to approve it in such a short time before the election, even though some of them are still trying to pretend they can. But it's just not realistic anymore, and it's your huge debt that you've created for that real debt for society. That's the main debt that will be here after you, after your governments. We cannot support something that is not compensated by real savings and real spending efforts to save. That's not what's going on. Maybe that's what they say. It feels good in the media, but it really doesn't happen and it doesn't. And by the time you're proposing a state budget deficit at CZK 390 billion again for next year, and you don't even have everything you want to push for, there's even $20,000 worth of money, so the deficit can be even higher, so it's only fair here to admit that even this gift is at the expense of another debt, another debt of all those who will have to repay it with interest. This is fair to say, because it doesn't manifest itself in savings. We certainly do not support the speedy discussion, because I think it is important that we have the opportunity here to table amendments to your proposal, even if I personally consider it best to reject this proposal completely. However, the debate that we were supposed to have here is about to change the system, which we have moved again to the next parliamentary term, when it will begin to catch up with us and when it is time, even five minutes after 12th, even according to all those whom I have appointed, those world organisations and economists who work in them to do so. As I say, we wish as much dignified pensions as possible, given that we can afford them in the coming years, and that is why I can guarantee for us, behind the coalition of the SPOLU, that we will no longer give up pension, pension reform, that we will actually enforce it and that it will not just be a priority written for us in the programming statement, but it will become reality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u17	Mr Jan Bauer will now speak with the opinion of the ODS Club and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u18	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the opinion of the Citizen's Democratic Party. I'm going to say one small, but in my opinion, very important thing. You may not all know this, but during the last term, I wasn't here, approved this honored The Chamber of Deputies has changed the valorisation formula of how pensions in our country will valorize in the future. It was under the rule of Bohuslav Sobotka. And I confess that I believed that the main reason why the House agreed at the time was so that no party secretariats would enter into how pensions in the Czech Republic would be validated, that there would be a clear framework. And perhaps even more so, I was pleased at the time. And the Czech seniors certainly deserved this at the time that there was a change in favour of the Czech seniors within this valorisation formula, because just for your information, until 2017, if I am not mistaken, Czech pensions were valorized through inflation, which is price growth, and through real wage growth from one third at the time, and based on a change in the valorisation formula, it is one-half. What maybe not all of you know exactly how these valorization formulas are calculated is that so-called retirement inflation was introduced at that time, which means that the increase in living costs is calculated, as for ordinary households, which may have a slightly different consumer basket than other households, such as pensioners, and then the increase in living costs in the retirement home counts. If the pensioner's cost of living is higher because they have a slightly different consumer basket, the real wage growth is taken from the pensioner's inflation. This is what has been decided in the past. We see that valorisation is actually decided here and there on the basis of the discussion and decisions of the party secretariats. I'm not happy about this. On the other hand, I must admit that the Civic Democratic Party MEP's club has also supported the growth of Czech pensions in recent years as part of a legal valuation formula. But in recent years, we have also supported the growth beyond this legal valorisation. And as some of my previous speakers have said here, we have done this for one simple reason, because we have experienced really extraordinary economic growth in our country over the last years, and we have been convinced that, among other things, for this reason, Czech seniors deserve to have a certain benefit or share in this extraordinary economic growth. [[14.50 hours]] A completely different situation was already at the end of last year, when the government came up with the so-called CZK 5,000. This situation has changed not only at the end of last year, but also now in a really dramatic way in our country. We all know that there is a huge state budget deficit in the hundreds of billions of crowns. You all know that we also have a pension deficit, which is a big change compared to last years at the level of tens of billions of crowns. And for this reason, too, at the end of last year, we did not support the drape. We thought that rather than trying to seriously solve the problems of Czech seniors, this drape was rather a pre-election gift or buying voters. We may view this in a similar way now in the context of this government bill, and we do not support this increase. On the other hand, we are aware that not only we but also our colleagues in the coalition of the SPOLU are prepared and we will prepare several amendments that we want to introduce to the Chamber of Deputies, but also the Czech public. For this reason, I would like to announce that, through the ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, I propose the veto to discuss this bill within the framework of Section 90. That's really the only reason. It is an effort to buy at least some time so that we can prepare our own amendments, which we will then enter into the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u19	Okay. So I'm reflecting on the veto of three MPs, which means we won't even vote on whether the House agrees to be able to give consent to the law at first reading. We will therefore continue the general debate. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková has the floor and Mr Tomáš Martínek will be prepared. So please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Members of Parliament, honourable House, I would like to stress that I support this proposal as a Social Democrat because it fulfils the fundamental principles to which I declare myself, and that is firstly that society must take care and support the weakest of its members: children, seniors, people with disabilities. They must be cared for, and the civilization level of any advanced society or underdeveloped society is recognised. Second, second thesis. When a person has worked his whole life, paid social security, paid his taxes, then he must receive a pension for which he can live with dignity, not that he finds retirement at or below the poverty line. This is simply unacceptable in civilized society. And the third thesis, the third principle. Money in people is always the best and most efficient investment, of course, from the perspective of the individual person, but also from the perspective of society and the long-term perspective of society. And now a little more detailed on the proposal. The parameters of the proposal and justification were presented here by both Minister Maláčová and Minister and Vice Prime Minister Schillerová. But the right rejects it, saying that we are indebting the country and that we are bribing senior voters with a pension proposal. I want to take a stand against it. It really is an absolute, but totally outrageous statement, and forgive my expression, I'd say rude. This simply offends the intelligence of all people in this country and the elderly in particular. You know, we need to remember how these debts are actually made. Maybe to begin with, we should say what we consider debt. Will we consider it a debt to buy military equipment? Will we consider the debt-making of the billions that cost the highway? I'm sure we need a freeway, but I'll remind you that one kilometer of highway is one billion, so let's get this straight. Or an overpriced job? Or we're going to consider it a debt to give money to people, in this case to seniors, who, but the crowns, the increases in the pensions, don't put them in strooks or take them to tax havens, but spend them essentially by turning their hands, because they just have nothing else left. Their income is that they don't just stuff it into the strooks, which means from the perspective of society and the economy of society, that if you give money to people, you're moving the economy, because these people are buying, buying goods, buying services, and thus the economy is strengthening and spinning, it's creating a new job. By the way, we heard that here when the right, ODS specifically, voted to reduce the supergross wage. They said leave the money to the people, they'll know what to do with it. Now I say let's leave the money to the seniors, they know what to do with it. And that's one way to make debt, or we could actually divide it into two parts. One way is to publish more. I'm saying if you go into people, it's an investment. The other way is, and that's what the right here really tells us that you're going to cut your income. I've already talked about super gross wages. But I will mention Topolánkův's backpack, which reduced the revenue of the state, the revenue of the state budget just at the beginning of the crisis, and the crisis in the Czech Republic lasted three times as long as it did in the surrounding countries. This also needs to be recalled. Just as a social democrat, I would put humanity against selfishness. And investing in people again, not the other way around. Seniors have made a living on their pensions and they're moving the economy, they're returning the money to society to make it work. They don't take them as dividends and take them to tax havens. And one more comment. What the KDU proposes, i.e. the educational one, and I would add to it measures in relation to demanding professions, which is already in the House system as a parliamentary bill. And, of course, we are prepared to put it forward as amendments to this bill as well. And if WHO is serious, they will definitely support these proposals so that they can still pay this year. And I'm really sorry that I'm longer than I used to today, but a note to TOP 09. You know, the change in pension system according to the right is actually the privatisation of the pension system, the production of bank products, as it was the establishment of the second pillar, which has proved absolutely not to work, not only did it not work in the Czech Republic, but it didn't work anywhere else where it was introduced, because really effective and guaranteeing pensions even in the future is an ongoing pension system. That's not a bank product. It can't be privatized, it can't be taken anywhere. That's just based on solidarity today. Whoever works is of working age, pays off insurance, and that immediately pays off to existing seniors. And that's just how it works over the ages. And it works, you can't steal it. Excuse the expression. It will always be for pensions if the ongoing system works. [[15.00 hours]] At this point, we have about 8 percent in pensions, or pensions account for 8 percent of GDP. Poland and other surrounding countries have around 12% of GDP per year. And I saw the predictions, I saw the outlooks that said that the 12 percent of GDP would be needed in 2050 in the Czech Republic. This is the moment that will be when the largest group of seniors will be against people of working age. Then the ratio will change again, but in 2050, it's going to be 12 percent of GDP. The surrounding countries don't go bankrupt. They're working, they're handling it. I believe the Czech Republic can do it too. It'll just be for pensions, it has to be. The seniors worked for it, and the seniors deserved it. And I'm worried about that promise by the coalition of the COO that if they win the election, they're gonna do the pension reform. That's what I'm really afraid of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u21	The appearance of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková has brought great interest, so I have three factual points here, I will read the order. Mrs Pekarová, Mr Bauer, Mr Kaňkovský. So the first to speak is the factual remark made by Mrs Markéta Pekarová and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Madam President, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u22	The Member here criticised the reform that was introduced under the Government with the participation of the TOP 09, so I can only respond by your means, Mr President. You know, we were in that government for three years. Yes, it ended infamously, I'm not saying, and I'm not reluctant to take responsibility for everything that's been going on. On the other hand, you have been eight years - that is more than double - in government, and the situation is that you have been able to abolish reform and replace it with nothing. And you're letting the problem go. But letting something go isn't really the answer. That's the flood approach after me, I don't care, I don't think I want to deal with it after all, I won't. The consequences... I don't think you're ever gonna have the opportunity to do anything like that again. So that is an approach that is neither responsible nor fair to society, to all those involved. So if I disagree with something, it's legitimate. It's clearly for debate, it's clearly your right. But what I don't think is part of the right governance anymore is that I'm simply solving the problem by saying, "There's also a lot of pension spending elsewhere, so why can't they be with us? It's okay. We're not in business yet. We will ignore what experts say, what economists say. It's gonna work out, but it's gonna work out. - It's a day-to-day approach, and it's just not ours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u23	Mr Jan Bauer will now make a point of fact. And I'd just ask the secretary -- you're interested in priority or factual? [[Minister off mic: After de facto.]] In fact. Okay, okay. So, Mr. Jan Bauer. You have two minutes, please. And Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u24	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to respond briefly to the previous speakers of Mrs GajdůGajdůšková through Mr President. I'm not going to respond to that right-wing vision of the 1990s, it has no meaning at all. I don't think it will bring any political points to the Czech Social Democratic Party either, you could have understood that by now. But I have noted - because I was involved in the program in the pension reform of the SOLU coalition - that the lady read it and that we are preparing some bank right-wing products there, she had in mind probably an account of long-term investments. So I just wanted, Madame, through the President, to put you on the right track that a lady who was sitting here just a little while ago came up with a long-term investment account. Or sorry, he's here now - Secretary Alena Schillerová. Perhaps I could tell you by heart - I don't know exactly which House press it is - that the long-term investment account, if that's what you meant, isn't some right-wing invention, came up with it by your colleague. And I can think absolutely anything about the YES movement, but certainly not that it's the right-wing side. So it's a pretty high-quality, reasonable product, and I'm glad you met it in our program.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Votava, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u26	Good afternoon. I'd have short notes. Firstly, when talking about raising pensions, it should be recalled that in the last parliamentary term, at a time when the economy was booming, it was then the finance minister Andrej Babiš, who defended himself, and defended himself very, very hard, raising pensions above legal valorisation. And it was then Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek and Prime Minister Sobotka, who finally convinced him to increase his pension over legal valorisation. That's note number one. Then to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková through you. I respect the honourable Member very much, but if you are taking KDU-ČSL into your mouth, it must be said that KDU-ČSL has repeatedly come up with proposals on pensions in this parliamentary term. For example, about raising pensions for mothers who raised a child by 500 crowns. With this proposal, we have been here repeatedly, it is possible to find out from public sources, these are also specific amendments. And it is very sad that the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has repeatedly spoken in debates at the end of the parliamentary term and has it as a brilliant idea of social democracy. I don't think that's how politics is supposed to be done. And among the kids, they say they're apes. So, Secretary Maláčová, you're going to monkey. However, it is the right proposal, and if it can still be enforced in this parliamentary term, it will be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr Votava, so far the final factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if President TOP 09 is talking about a reform in the form of a second pillar, it is no way, my colleague, through the President. It wasn't a reform, it was a deformity, a pseudo-reform. That was a business mainly for pension funds. Advantageable to pension funds, not guaranteed by the state for those who were supposed to enter. That's why it turned out like this. And most people understand that the resources they put in there aren't guaranteed to meet them at any time... And there was no way out of that fund. So, my colleague, through Mr President, this was no reform. That was more of a retirement fund business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u29	Thank you and with priority for the debate, Minister Maláčová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was going to say the same thing as Mr Votava. That was such a great reform, Madame, so great that no one was interested in it. This is the big business for pension funds. So please don't ever say that again, we may have produced a scumbag, but a better asshole than nothing, because the pension system is too important, too strategic for this country to be experimented with like this. Indeed, we have a pension reform prepared, we have put it forward in time, we have discussed it with everyone, and we all know that you have all been inspired in your programmes by this proposal for a fair pension reform. So let's stop overreacting and let's vote on it, because we as Social Democrats will put forward the partial proposals within this bill. If we can no longer discuss the valorization of CZK 300 above the legal one, because you vetoed it - we wanted to approve it very quickly at 90 - let's discuss the parameters of a fair pension reform under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u31	Your performance brought up two factual points. First Mrs Pekarová Adamová, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u32	In response to both previous speakers, both the Minister and the Member, by your means, Mr President. Simply - I understand that socialists have everything that's private, so they just stink, they bother, they get in the way. But the best option you had at the time was to adjust the parameters, correct it to make it better in your opinion, but that would no longer bring the populist points you decided to collect on it, when you turned the second pillar into the biggest scarecrow that went, and you decided that better than dealing with some systematic, systemic modification that could work, it would be cancelled without compensation. [[15.10 hours]] And it's just that you've had enough clouds for that time, because the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has been in control for seven years without a short break, so you don't talk shit about it, pardon me. This simply cannot be explained by any rumor that the reform is communicated, ready, and that we are going to discuss it here three months before the election, and this is a fundamental change - as you yourself have called it, Madam Secretary, which is one of the few things I agree with you that it really is essential for the whole society, for the whole country - that is the crucial thing you want to deal with literally five minutes after 12 o'clock. That's ridiculous! It's a mockery to all people who put two and two together, and they know you can't even mean it, that you're just trying to get them drunk with a roll.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Kaňkovský, Mr Sklenák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u34	Madam Secretary Maláčová, I'm very sorry, but I really can't understand why you don't hold on to the fact a little bit. Once again, you said a thing that isn't true or is only partially true. You said the SPOLU coalition wouldn't allow us to discuss the above-law valorisation of pensions. And that is not the whole truth, because the coalition of the SPOLU has brought to light an accelerated discussion of this law. We want to put forward amendments, for example. an increase of CZK 500 for a raised child, which is the proposal that we have put forward repeatedly during this parliamentary term. And the fact that you brought the last-minute proposal here is certainly not a problem with the coalition of the SPOL. And as far as the pension reform you mentioned is concerned, aren't you ashamed to say that you presented it here after all your discussions? At the end of the term? A fundamental pension reform, how do you talk about it? Do you really think voters will believe that? I firmly believe not. And I would never dare, after a fiasco like this, which is your retirement reform, to get off like this. I'm really sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u35	Mr Sklenák, Mr Votava will prepare all the factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I made two comments on my previous speakers. To honourable Mr Kaňkovský: Yes, at the end of the parliamentary term, we have tabled a paragrafo-based text on the adjustment of the pension system. Whether you want to call it retirement reform or not is indifferent. We are aware, of course, that it is very unlikely that the Chamber of Deputies will discuss and approve these three prints, because it consists of three prints. However, I am deeply convinced that there is a point. Because, in the next parliamentary term, our successors can come out of a paragrafo-enhanced text that has been passed through the commentary procedure, there are calculations for decades in advance, etc. And it is largely material that has actually emerged from the broad consensus of the Commission for Fair Pension Reform. So that's why we did it, and I think if our successors approach it responsibly, they'll appreciate it. And the second point - to President Adamová Pekarová: As we really do not wish for what is quite obvious. What you have introduced here, the second pillar, is the privatisation of the pension system. They went the same way in the surrounding countries, Slovakia, Hungary and Poland, and they had to leave because... We believe that the pension system must remain under state control, i.e. an ongoing system, and the State can control revenue and expenditure. If we hadn't gone the way you guys set up and canceled the second pillar, we wouldn't be able to talk about raising pensions today, and we'd be dealing with the fact that pensioners have lower incomes than they had in those years when you guys put it in place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Votava, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. To Mrs Pekarová Adamová through you: My colleague, I beg you to say that we stink of what is private; I personally stink of what is private. It doesn't stink, believe it. And that statement you said isn't smart. I didn't say another word. The second pillar was simply incorrigible. Incorrigible, that's why it's canceled. And I think people have their reason and they understand that the pillar really isn't for them. That's why there were so many registered to the pillar, how many there were. That he eventually died on the run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u39	So far, this is all from factual remarks, and Mr Martínek is enrolled in the debate. Mr Dolejš will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to correct the valorisation mechanism so that pensioners have a dignified and adequate increase in pension and, at the same time, politicians do not abuse it in political campaigns. I wish we were doing system solutions that wouldn't penalize active seniors. That is exactly what is now threatening again, just as it happened this year. If the senior retired in December last year, he had a pension higher than his peers, who, for example, decided to remain in employment for a few more months, contribute to companies, pay taxes and social insurance. It's just a big injustice that needs to be corrected so this doesn't happen, and so that it doesn't have to be calculated whether it's necessary to retire at this moment, because if I leave three months later, I'm going to have a lower notice than I am now. It's just not fair, it's a big injustice, and we have to fix it. We have to fix this whether by changing the valorisation mechanism, whether by changing the coefficients that are given years, but simply those who go longer, if they have worked more, have done more, can't get a lower pension than those who leave, for example. early retirement. Unfortunately, this also threatens next year because of this law, and this is something that really requires an accelerated comprehensive change because it cannot happen. I am glad that, as pirát, we have supported several times the increase in pensions, for example the increase in basic income, which helps mainly low- and medium-income seniors. So let's talk comprehensively about the repair so that we really support active seniors so that we don't create injustices in society and that the system is really fair. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Dolejš is enrolled in the debate. Mr Jakob will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I am done. If you don't mind, a few really brief remarks, because I think - as old as I am, I may be naive - but so I think that this relatively simple point could simply be discussed. Because if, from those big plans for a pink future, when finance is consolidated and we have a super pension system that is sitting on the back of Europe, we go back to what is the subject of this law, so what do we want? At the end of our legislative period, we still want to be able to discuss such a small matter as adding a little bit to our pensioners beyond legal valorisation. That's the point. It will cost us, true, maybe around CZK 11 billion, but compared to what we're putting money on elsewhere, it's not that much drama. The money will undoubtedly be found. koneckonců all, he guaranteed it here - who else, more qualified than the Secretary of Finance. [[15.20 hours]] And if we focus on this, let us admit that the Czech pensioner should not be the one who loses not only on Parliament's impotence to deal with these things systemicly, but should not lose sight of the fact that we are going through a crisis and in that crisis some social groups are jealous of themselves and think that they should be joined, not to pensioners, which, by the way, such a competitive relationship, I think is not reasonable, because the pensioner is at least in that position that he can no longer defend himself. If you're an employee, if you're an entrepreneur, if you're a younger person, you can do a lot for your situation, but if you're dependent on that monthly pension, you can't do much more. That's why I think it might be easy. But I understand that, on this occasion and four months before the election, there are some more general problems, but then, to be honest with ourselves, let's just say what the real diagnosis of these problems is that we have them at all. Yes, at the end of this parliamentary term, when we were ruled by the minority government YES and ČSSD, we have finances in not exactly good condition, although the Minister likes to add that compared with other European countries, the figures are not yet so scary, and that therefore our idea of consolidation, long-term consolidation of public finances, which is a strategic matter, a long-term matter, so that it is actually the subject of a dispute, is not too obvious to us, let alone the public. That's right. It is also true that we should address the situation of pensioners in a systemically, and in a systemically calculated way, treated almost automatically, I would say, so that everyone who comes into retirement age knows what awaits him and does not miss. And let's face it, we might all wish that what awaits them and does not miss is more pleasant and not unpleasant. And how come we don't have such a system solution? The truth is, this government didn't agree. But is it just the government's problem? Any systemic solution to pensions requires a broader consensus. We have a minority government, so even if that government goes crazy, they just have to look for votes outside their ranks. He just has to. In addition to the fact that, perhaps, not in everything, the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance fully understand this, but let us say that they would agree to create a hypothesis that there is a chance for an agreement - and who will support it? Fourteen members of social democracy, if I subtract one deserter, plus 15 members of the KSČM with some penetration with YES. If you don't like the penetration, it's an unstable reform again. And we've been interfering with something like this unstable since 2012. So it requires the consensus. And are we ready for this consensus? Do we map the penetrations so that they're sustainable in the long run? I sat in two government pensions committees, first that Professor Patočka, now Professor Nerudová, and I have a memory, even though my memory is sometimes missing, even those previous pension committees that have also reached some conclusions. And the problem is, as long as experts and mathematically simulate something, data is data, simulations are simulations; Sometimes the simulations made us happy, sometimes they scared us, but there's no argument about it. But the problem is when it has to be cut politically, because of course there are always at least two basic views and two basic approaches, which also have the fact that they are related in a matter of fact. We would like the pension system to be socially sustainable, that is, to help people, to maintain human dignity for those pensioners, and at the same time to be financially sustainable. One without the other is wrong. If the pensioner is financially sustainable and the beggar is dependent on some kind of minimum poor benefit, it is wrong. And if a pensioner gets money, but it ruins, literally ruins the financial system, it's also wrong. We just haven't met here. Everyone has an icon. The right has an icon of personal responsibility that we do not renounce, personal responsibility is important. But the person who has the chance, who has the potential to save it, can bear the personal responsibility. But we live in a state where even the middle layer melts - now let's leave aside the real plebs. But where the middle layer melts, where the middle layer is poor, and where even such an instrument, which is undoubtedly interesting, after all, we are now trying to introduce it, such as long-term accounts and other ideas, so it is difficult to save enough to compensate for, let's say, the state guaranteed, publicly guaranteed pension that we all actually receive as a basis. And that's the subject of the dispute. And let's face it, in this parliamentary term, we just didn't get past the border of this dispute. There may be some cracks inside the coalition, I don't want to examine that right now, but there's just no majority in this parliament. And it's up to each of us why the majority didn't come. Let's not throw that between us. I understand to a certain extent that the Minister, who has now put on an orange leotard in particular before the elections, is holding the left base, the social sustainability beacon, but that financial sustainability must also be addressed. So it's the theme of the election campaign. If we can clearly explain this to the voters and give us such a mandate that we can sort this out after the election, we can move on. If we don't move on, it's a problem, because some things are objective, see demography, and they're just problems that really have to be solved strategically after the election. These include, because, logically, financial sustainability includes a vision of public finances and, say, reform, even if the word reform is sometimes abused, tax mix reform. Because even the more right-wing version of reform will simply want some money into that system, and in a way other than deciding that you're financing some money in that pension system for that purpose, you can't. And if we add to that the redemption of the long-term debt, which is actually small, and with the income tax outage that we approved here last December, there's an increase in the pressure... So we lost $100 billion, soon HusákHusákův children will retire, so we will have to finance an increase in the number of pensioners. If we want to address the tensions between solidarity and equivalence in the pension system, this means that low pensions need to be raised, but at the same time, people who worked for higher incomes start calling you names again, that the principle of equivalence is not respected - these are all the problems that are related. And if there was material in the pension committee, which then even went through into the form of a parliamentary press that talks about a certain architecture, a new architecture of the pension system, it is, of course, not real without a link to funding. We must all be aware of this, and undoubtedly the two mentioned members of the government will also be aware of this. So if I take it really: we want to give today - or if we've decided on a maybe shortened, but still full reading at three readings - the extra three hundred to the elderly? I will recall senior organisations that have long been based on analyses of the evolution of the living costs of retirement households, and they simply assume that on the basis of the long-term development in which we have to include the financial crisis in 2009, etc. etc., so it's just that the retirement households aren't doing well. They would like to increase not only the compensation ratio, that is a very aggregate figure, but especially the situation of those people with lower pensions, that they are therefore for the more radical valuation scenarios, that they are not satisfied even by the amendment to the valuation scheme that we adopted, and we have incorporated there, in addition to inflation, the impact of wage developments, and that, in short, this is a one-time advance on the fact that legal valorisation is actually based on past data and on past developments. And here's an advance on that we know, and I think that we can say that today we know that prices are going up, unfortunately; that these are particularly sensitive items that are very important in the consumer basket of pensioners, such as housing costs - not just rents, but energy, aqueous, thready etc. etc.; unfortunately, our pensioners must also pay part of their medical expenses. And so on and so forth. And the really, really, three hundred a month, it's gonna slip out of your wallet! And let me remind you that today's median pension, which means half of the pensioners are lower, is about CZK 13.5,000. [[A reminder from the diaper.]] Or higher. It's half. It's just the mean value. Try to imagine, whatever region you are from - these conditions are different, of course, big cities are a bigger problem for pensioners than other regions - but try to imagine that once a month you will land in your wallet about 13,5% of what you will do about it. [[15.30 hours]] So that's the point. Today I think everyone will understand that it's not just because there's going to be an election. I think we need to catch up on the weakened purchasing power of the elderly when we can. And let's face it, in these set funds, I don't want to say lose the 11 billion crowns, but it will. Especially considering not only how we will fix what we have done with taxes, and that we have basically made our own budget tensions a little worse, but that some expenditures can also be re-evaluated. We like to introduce the U.S. helicopters and so on and the inability of the defense department to draw the money. But there's no doubt more of those items. So let's not say we can't find the 11 billion crowns. As for the things that, let's say, have the character of the campaign, I think even though there's a little bit more going on here today, let's really save it for the election final. Let us make it clear to the electorate that certain concepts are confronting here and that a prudent politician sees the arguments and, after the election, his responsibility will be to find the kind of penetration that will finally move things out of place. Because politicians who just yell and suggest solutions that are unrealistic - they're no use to voters. They're no use to voters. So let's decide. You can really handle a few hundred. It's not just an election present, because these things are being dealt with repeatedly, and I'd say almost chronically. And in that election battle, let us wish for much more reason, substance and fairness in relation to the electorate. Because when you promise them high minimum pensions - you don't even think about the fact that the minimum pension category de facto doesn't exist, that it's basically a certain construct that's evolving. Personally, I even think that the concept of a zero pillar, which, based on purely solidarity, would measure the basic benefit, is not bad. But it is precisely the subject of this political agreement that we will find a quantitative limit. That means how much of that solidarity money we're gonna give the retired guy as basic money. Because there's a difference if you promise him $8,000, $12,000, or how much. 'Cause you can count it, it's going to be a budget dick. But if you put it on high, of course it will want to supply a lot of money, and in that case we have to deal with the sustainability of public finances, with the concept of consolidation of public finances, which we have repeatedly demanded here as KSČM, and whose fulfillment we have repeatedly referred to as formalistic, which actually ceases to work out in those figures, as the debt is still being increased to us. And this is the strategic thing for the future. Today, I think the retired person expects us to fill up our strategic thinking and turn into action. But tonight he's more likely to expect us to decide for at least that year the three hundred. Because the world won't save it, but it'll help the old man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jakob is signed up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u44	Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I must begin by saying that I, of course, wish the seniors the highest possible pension, I wish the seniors the highest possible standard of living, because they certainly deserve it. On the other hand, I have to respond here to many previous speeches, particularly the two ladies of the Minister, when Minister Maláčová said she was ashamed of many discussions before today's discussion. I must confess that I am very ashamed of their performances because it was an overview of the ultimate demagogy and incredible populism. I am glad that the Minister of Finance has come, who said that this government has identified as its goal the growth of the living standards of seniors. Well, she may have factored it out, but she certainly didn't succeed. Because she's not living the standard of living about nominal growth in pension itself. Yes, it did, and at a time of economic growth, we too supported that growth. [[Some Members are laughing.]] You can laugh all you want. I can do it on clear dates. The Secretary of Finance likes charts and numbers, and I like clear facts, too. I've prepared a simple graph here that doesn't have nominal income growth, but the amount of pension against the average gross monthly wage. Well, a clear indicator that shows the living standards of seniors. And on that chart - I've put it since the beginning, when so much cursed Mr. Kalousek entered the government as Minister of Finance. [[shows]] And world, wonder! The pensions grew. Except for one exception between 2009 and 2010, when the financial crisis peaked, but even then it grew. Following Mr Babiš's accession to the Ministry of Finance and subsequently to the Minister of Finance, they were clearly declining. These are the clear facts of how this government has factored in the growth of the living standard of seniors as its goal. Well, I didn't. And if she did, she didn't succeed. Then there were arguments of the type that I, unfortunately, cannot accept as arguments. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said here: she will always be for pensions. My colleague Dolejš said the money will be found. Well, I wish it were. But just yesterday, the National Budget Board updated its long-term outlook. And unfortunately, the graph - the second, last, don't worry, which I'll show you - so the curve that grows steeply is not, unfortunately, economic growth or the standard of living of our seniors, but it's a state debt. On the other hand, last year's outlook puts us at the end of 132 percentage points higher in government debt, where the debt will exceed 300 percent of GDP. I am worried - and I would like to be sure that he will always be on pensions - but I fear that there is no certainty. And especially with your attitude: that's ten billion, that's 500 billion deficit, that's nothing, and there's another ten billion, and we're gonna extend the vacation so those entrepreneurs have it even worse. You don't even keep your medium-term budgetary outlook. Next year, you are planning a deficit of 390 billion, and that is not what this increase and many other things are about. That's not going to be 390 billion. I'm worried it might be getting closer to this year's deficit. I find that completely irresponsible. And I'm worried that if things could go on like this... I believe that after the elections, there will be a reasonable coalition that will not need to take the conclusions of the National Budget Council lightly, and that this development, this view of the future, will change. Unfortunately, I must say that your government is not a government of the growth of the living standard of seniors, but a government of state bankruptcy. You're recklessly gambling with the future not just of seniors, but of everyone in this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. One factual point, Mr Sklenák. And then with the priority right of the Minister of Finance. With the replacement card number 17 votes Minister Zaorálek, I forgot to read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond by your means to Mr Jakob. Because even if the numbers that he was saying were true, I dare say that the interpretation was somewhat misleading. Because, of course, who deals with this issue a little bit more, they know that the growth in pensions is one-year delays for the growth of real wages. This means that if we are now in a situation where real wages have been rising very significantly for several years in a row, even though pensions are growing nominally, the percentage increase is simply smaller. This means that the annual growth in pensions between 2012 and 2013 was CZK 200, so it did 0.7 percentage points, and when between 2019 and 2020, the increase in pensions was only 2 tenths. It's just an interpretation of the numbers. And... Am I out of time? I see. Well, I'd just take the liberty, if I have the floor, with the agreement of the petitioner, of proposing a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 13 days. In the event that this proposal was vetoed or failed, it would, alternatively, be 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u47	I made a note of the motion. And the factual point, Mr. Jakob?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Of course, my colleague Sklenák is right about the delay. However, the trend is obvious on the graph. [[shows]] Even in those eight years, he just hasn't changed, he hasn't shown up with the delay. Yes. We can record a slight increase between 2018 and 2019, but the trend is quite clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u49	Well, thank you for a brief factual remark. And now, Madam Secretary with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u50	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. Chairman. Well, Mr Jakob, I dare to show you - when I am most likely communicating with former Member Kalousek through you, but that's okay, that's okay - I'll show you another graph. I'll show you the chart of raising pensions in 2010 and 2022. [[It's showing a graph.]] You're welcome to come closer. And then I'll show you another graph - the development of the average pension between 2008 and 2022. [[It's showing another graph.]] So, of course, you're right about the HPD conversion, but the GDP also grew very much, and I just think that the old people remember very, very much that since 2008 - pirates will blame me again for having it from point zero, well, I think everyone understands that graph. They remember. They remember the 40 crowns for my predecessor. There are only two ministers in modern history who have gone through an economic, economic crisis. He's my predecessor, Mr. Exminister Kalousek, and I. I dare say that this crisis is comparable, as I often say, with the 1930s or the 1930s. I was even at a meeting on Saturday where the seniors were, among other things, and a lady told me that even 7 crowns, she received a letter saying she had it hidden. Hidden as she got behind my predecessor, your fellow partyman, the valorization of 7 crowns. So what good was it to them that in terms of GDP, it was like that when GDP grew enormously, when they just had 40 crowns in their wallet? Or seven crowns even. So please take a look at these graphs. So that's just to explain what each graph is about. And I'm not saying yours doesn't have relevance. He just doesn't have any, he doesn't mean anything to them. Well, there's a lot going on here. You know, one big difference. The approach of individual governments in these crises. And we can only compare the government that was here in the 2008/09 crisis and in the coming years, and our government that is here in the 2020/2021 crisis in the same way, and the attitude that the individual governments have taken on this. There's only two ways to go. One way is to give no one anything and just let these people smack in. That's what happened back then. I have a graph, 3.5 percent of HPD was possible, and it was only in the tax area. I've been working on the Financial Administration, I remember. The only help they got. Otherwise, not a penny. Or you take that risk, you get in debt, which we did. We came from the fact that the extreme economic situation here was excellent because of the way we handled it. And I remember - laugh all you want, there's just been six years of booming, there's been years when we've set up strict tax measures, like control reports, which even some opposition parties now admit wouldn't disturb him, that it's a good measure. We set up a fight with transfer prices, that's all that already works within the Ministry of Finance department, respectively. Financial services, to be exact. Well, we used this situation to do it, we just borrowed it at advantageous interest, and we helped. We helped the economy. As of 31. 5. it's 466 billion. I named it in my speech, who, how much, what we gave. And I remember-- you guys are playing a fake game here. When we were discussing the various measures, the compensatory bonus, it was most relevant to me, but a whole series of others, so you kept banging on this table and you said, "It's just not enough, and more, and more, give, even more. And then you came back and said: you must not be indebted and you must manage more well and simply best with a balanced budget. It doesn't add up. And when I challenged you here several times and showed you: come here, to the table, and tell me where you want to save, I heard: we will release - now you say it again, the electoral programs - we will release 13,000 officials. You forgot that there was a Civil Service Act that Europe wanted, that we were obliged to accept, for which the last Chamber of Deputies voted here? That you're just gonna get nothing out of it? I went the way, when I simply limited the funds to vacant seats. Why didn't any of my predecessors, including your partner? No one's ever done that. We saved 4,300 civil servants' seats, and the savings were roughly 3.7 billion. You're not gonna cut tens of billions in there. I'm studying your programs now, and I'm really sick of it. From what you're planning on doing there, brutal cuts. You just haven't learned your lesson. You want to go the same way you did 12 or 15 years ago or how many years ago. Same way again. Not stimulate the economy. At the time you, not only did you not give people anything, you even strangled a pensioner, which is completely unimaginable and immoral for me, but you strangled investment. I don't have an investment chart here today because I was going to retire, but no problem, I've got a stack of those charts. I like them. Yes, you're right, I like numbers and I like charts. I lean on them because they're facts. On the contrary, we support - when else do we invest? When else than when companies restrict private investment, when they try to save money? When else than now, the public sector - and we are planning a record-breaking 189 billion in 2022, because we have to give jobs to businessmen, we have to give jobs to companies, and we just have to invest ourselves in this crisis. Those aren't empty words. [[15.50 hours]] You're still threatening and scaring the deficit. Yes, of course I'm not happy about the deficit management. I'm not. And as I have said here several times, I will definitely enter history as Secretary of Finance with the highest deficit. That's certainly a fact. But I can live with that. I'm not happy about it. I can live with it. I couldn't live if we didn't help those people. And I go to people, I live a perfectly normal, ordinary life. And I hear their opinions. And I was just on the V4 yesterday, I heard - I really appreciate the V4 cooperation. We talked to the ministers about how much public debt we have. I just heard the numbers where we're not even in the middle of someone in two thirds. I supported the Austrian Minister of Finance in the activities of countries such as Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the Baltic countries, Sweden, Denmark last week, perhaps I forgot about someone, in creating a counterweight against the pressure of the southern countries, which today are in quite a very difficult and endless situation and want to disband fiscal rules. We don't want fiscal rules to unfold. We want to get back to normal, but not a year after the crisis. Not a year after the crisis to mean brutal strangulation for the people and the economy of our country. And that's what you want because you haven't learned anything from the last crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr Jakob, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance, through Mr President, you do not speak to Miroslav Kalousek through me, but if you think so, I do not mind, on the contrary, it is an honor. You were showing graphs of nominal numbers. Yes, I'm also the one who said that, of course, pensions grew nominally. I wasn't referring to GDP, I was referring to the average gross wage. It's just a factual clarification. I'm sure your predecessors have gone through a crisis, and even if it was difficult, that's why you were able to rule at a time of economic growth, and that's a nice thing to do. You're going through a crisis right now, but not like you said you went through it. Not by a long shot. And I fear that this comparison, if it were to continue - luckily there are elections in the autumn and they will undoubtedly change it - would be very, very unflattering to assess your passing through the crisis. We are always saying that we are in favour of growth measures, that we need to invest so that the economy starts. However, you have not proposed a single crown of savings, and I will not forgive you for future generations. I understand that the crisis cannot be cut off, but it is also necessary to make at least an elementary rational decision on the spending side in the crisis. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mrs Valachová is enrolled in the debate. And with priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u54	You know, Mr. Ambassador, for some reason, I don't trust your concern here, because if you really wanted to save money, you'd start with yourself. We suggested that constitutional officials freeze their salaries, and you were the first to say they wouldn't support it. You only want to save where it doesn't concern you. So please don't say we didn't design a crown of savings, that's just not true. How much have you improved - I'm sorry for the direct question - by abolishing the supergross wage? We're talking about three hundred over legal valorization a month, and yet we're all together, but we Social Democrats didn't vote for it, we didn't support it, we improved by how much? Eight, nine, ten thousand a month? Does that seem fair to you? And then it seems fair to tell you that if we propose that the salaries of constitutional officials are frozen, that you will not support it, and then you're here to lecture us on savings? Prove that you're serious, and start saving your money. Not retired people who have worked their whole lives and have 14,000 or less. That's just awful, that's - I'm not saying the word, it's just not believable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u55	So the Minister's speech raised two factual points, first Mr Jakob, then Mr Václav Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u56	Thank you, perhaps for the last time, I'm sorry. I don't know how much I saved, I don't have the comparison, I didn't come here until later, but the MEPs for TOP 09 didn't support this reduction. And as for the proposal to freeze wages or the rewards of constitutional officials, the judges themselves are already saying that it is unconstitutional. So we can have a theoretical discussion about this, but you just didn't bring up the actual savings on the expenditure side of the budget. I am glad that this proposal will be discussed in normal proceedings, will be a second, third reading. We'll give you some savings proposals, I hope you'll support them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u57	A point of fact, Mr Klaus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u58	Hello. I would have responded to my previous speakers. It's almost the end of the year, kind of pedagogical. Please, the vast majority of laws have meaning in the future. There are very few laws that go back to the past, . President G Masaryk was responsible for state and similar laws. And for two hours now, Mr Kalousek's Treasury Secretary and Social Democrats have been arguing over some interpretation of a 15-year-old failed pension reform. When we look at it really, it's vetoed in the '90s, there's no motion for rejection, so we're at first reading, there's no dispute, so I don't understand what we're having these endless discussions about. Let's assign this to some economic or budgetary committee and we can go home. And what was 15 years ago, go talk somewhere in the air. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u59	Mrs Valachová, registered for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, of course, I support the government's proposal that, in addition to the statutory valorisation that we pushed through in 2017, so that pensions of our seniors and seniors grow next year above the legal valorisation of 300 crowns. I am sorry - and here I am reacting to my previous speaker, why this debate is really going on here, which ultimately leads nowhere in the finals - that there has been no consensus in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum to vote this thing, in my opinion, justly, across the political spectrum. I guess that's why we're having this useless debate here, unfortunately. Why useless? Well, for a simple reason. Although in recent years, and the whole republic knows that every year, we've been raising seniors' pensions, and we've been leveling out the height at which we found our pensions x years ago, so why hasn't it really helped and here we are beating each other up with these charts? Well, for a simple reason, and I'm not saying that as a politician, but as a long-time lawyer, a person who moves in the public administration and also in the structures of the Legislative Council of the Government, I was there when it was precisely the valorisation of pensions in those times past. That's why the memory. And that's where the black hole was created towards pensions, and you just don't straighten it out, and unfortunately, you won't wall up after yourself over the regular valorization of the added pensions. [[16.00 hours]] It's not fair that we didn't agree on this today. And I call on you, colleagues and colleagues - and I am now getting to a specific point towards the fore-timer - to support the shortening of the discussions between readings so that the pensioners and pensioners in our country are as clear as possible as their pensions will grow, and let us wall up the hole that has arisen here in the previous years, which, according to my judgment, should be balanced fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just wanted to make sure that, even under the pirát' rule, pensions will grow, we will keep regular pension valorisation as clearly stated in the law. We have made this commitment clear to each other in our program. When it comes to politicians' salaries, we once pushed for their reduction and once we pushed for their freezing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. And once again, I'm looking around the O.R. and I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u64	Yes, thank you. We've been talking for two hours. Please support the shortening of deadlines so that we do not have to go through extraordinary meetings in August, and please let us approve this bill as quickly as possible so that seniors and seniors know that we appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word? [[He doesn't.]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. And first, we'd decide on a guarantee committee. I've noticed there's an interest in the check-out, so I just did. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. [[Gong.]] The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? I don't register any such proposal. I think that the number of votes has settled relatively, so we will proceed to the vote. I've started the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Who's against it? Voting number three, there are 108 Members, in favour of 108, against no one at the moment. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee didn't propose any other. So Mr Ferjenčík will probably propose another committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to propose a discussion of this press and of the Committee on Budgets, because the budgetary implications are quite significant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-001-001.u67	Yes, thank you. Another suggestion? I don't see anyone in the room. We will therefore vote on the proposal that this press be directed to the Committee on Budgets as the next committee. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 109 Members, for 29 against 5. The motion was not accepted. We will also vote on the proposals that were made in the debate. Mr Sklenák has proposed a reduction of the deadline for second reading to 13 days. I've started the vote. Who is there to shorten the time limit for second reading? Who's against it? Voting number 5, we have 109 Members registered, for 94, against 3. The motion was accepted. So these are all the proposals that were to be put to the vote in the first reading. Thank you all. I'm done reading this press. I'm done with this point. I'll read the apologies and then end the meeting because her program was exhausted. [[Big noise in the hall, some Members are leaving now.]] So sorry, Mrs Adamová, between 16 and 19 o'clock, that will be no longer necessary, Mr Pavel žáček from 16.00 - there is no need, Mr Martin Kupka from 15.15 for work reasons, Mr Petr Pávek from 15.30 for work reasons, Mr Miloslav Rozner from 15.00 for work reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík between 14 and 16.00 for work reasons. So that's it. Thank you. I'm ending this meeting.
