ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-007-005.u1	5. Proposal to establish permanent committees of the Chamber of Deputies, to determine the number of members and how they are established or elected I note that during the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies set up the following standing commissions: the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Labor of the Chamber of Deputies - the Commission was set up according to the principle of proportional representation, the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities - the Commission was set up according to the principle of proportional representation, the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic - the members of the Commission were elected in a majority manner in this case, and the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for hybrid Threats - this commission was set up on a parity basis. I am now initiating a general debate and I would like to point out that in a detailed debate, what committees we will set up, how many members they will have and how they will be fulfilled. Do I ask who is reporting for this debate? I don't see anyone. Since no one is speaking in the general debate, I am ending the general debate and we will proceed to the debate in detail. Now I remind you that we should now hear what committees we will set up, how many members they will have, how they will be fulfilled, and then we will put them to a vote. I'm asking, who's reporting for a detailed debate? The President of the Výborný is calling for the floor. Please take the floor. I'd like a moment of your patience before the details work out. [[The Excellent Member first consults with the organizational department, then with Mr Benda.]] As the debate is under way, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies meeting for ten minutes until 17-17 hours. I am interrupting negotiations in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-007-005.u2	Madam, honourable Members, I will ask you to return to the hall, the time for the break is up, and we will continue the negotiations. And we are going back to a detailed debate. I'm gonna go on and ask you to come to the O.R. And entered into a detailed debate was President Marek Výborný. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-007-005.u3	Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, fellow Members, I apologise for the forced recess, we needed to clarify with the club presidents the political agreements that have been agreed over the past few days, and let me now inform you of the results of these agreements and the proposal for the establishment and composition of permanent commissions of the Chamber of Deputies for the new parliamentary term. On the basis of the political agreement of all the MPs, it is proposed to set up, first, a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Chamber of Deputies Office. This Commission should be established in accordance with the principle of proportional representation and should have 16 members. Furthermore, I would like to propose - also in agreement with the Presidents of the Members' Clubs - the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family and Equal Opportunities, as I said - here I would just like to clarify, we exclude national minorities from the name and content of the substance of this commission. Not because we do not appreciate national minorities, but because, in agreement with the Presidents of the Clubs, a special subcommittee on national minorities will be set up under the petition committee, which will deal specifically with this topic and issue, as well as contact with national minorities living in the Czech Republic, because it will be considered a more sensible platform than a permanent committee on the family. So here it will be a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family and Equal Opportunities. It shall be established in accordance with the principle of proportional representation and shall have 16 members. We also propose to establish a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We propose to elect members of the commission in a proportionate manner, and this committee should also have 16 members. And the last, permanent committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which we dare to propose to establish, is a permanent committee of the Chamber of Deputies for hybrid threats. We also propose to establish this committee on a proportional basis, but with a number of 9 Members. So much for the proposal to set up four permanent committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-007-005.u4	I, too, thank you, Mr President, and I ask whether anyone else has entered into a detailed debate? I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. We will now vote on the proposals that have emerged from the detailed debate, and I ask whether it is possible for us to vote en bloc on these four committees when they were read... both the number of their members and the fact that they will always be a proportional representation? No one's upsetting my progress? In that case, I will put it to a vote. Who is in favour of the proposal as it was said? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal as stated in the detailed debate? Raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 28, with 181 Members registered, for proposal 147, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved and the Chamber of Deputies approved the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Chamber of Deputies, a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for Family and Equal Opportunities, a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution of the Czech Republic and a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for hybrid threats. Thank you, I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
