ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 81st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. To record your attendance, I've just checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to sign in with my cards. Today is January 28th and our colleague Přemysl Mališ celebrates his birthday. If he's here, happy birthday. I don't see him in the O.R., do I? [[Let's hear it.]] I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent by e-mail on Friday 22 January this year. In the introduction we would proceed to the identification of two verifiers. I propose that we designate Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr František Kopřiva. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see anyone. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. - Here comes the birthday boy. With the replacement card number 10, Mr Kolářík votes. [[A silence.]] I'm sorry, I had some applications here with priority rights. No one is reporting with another proposal for a verifier, so I am initiating a vote. Who is in favour of electing Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr František Kopřiva? Who's against it? Voting number one, 82 Members signed in, 78 against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr František Kopřiva, as verifiers of the 81st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I recall that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs. With a replacement card number 17, I, MP Vondráček, am voting. The members of the government apologize to Minister Marie Benešová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. And now we will proceed to the 81st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. At this point, I have several applications with priority rights. First, I ask that Vice-President Vojtěch Pikal take the floor. Mr. President Jurečka will be ready. I'm going to ask you all to take your seats and allow the Vice-President to perform!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, you may be surprised that I am the first to speak. I'm surprised too. I applied yesterday afternoon. I assumed others with priority rights would already be filed here, but they didn't, so I'm gonna use that option. After all, the elections have already begun. Today, if we approve it, four points, and I would like to deliver my position and, where appropriate, our member club's position on these points and support the approval of the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. I personally signed up to talk primarily about the point that is mentioned on the invitation as a second one. This is House Press 536, which is a correspondence vote from abroad. We originally submitted this proposal together with TOP 09 as House Press 217 already in mid-2018. The House was returned for revision, so we redesigned it, we submitted it again in mid-2019, when it was also sent to the government. The Government has issued a negative opinion on this proposal. As one of the main reasons for this negative opinion, apart from some technical details, it was said that this proposal was part of a government declaration and that the government would submit a correspondence choice as part of the electoral code. We have, of course, seen this position as relevant, but to this day, the government has not yet submitted this draft electoral code, which contains a lot of other useful tools for better and more accessible citizens, for example, to take out the electoral card anywhere, which we regret. So I therefore support the discussion of this press so that we can introduce at least correspondence choices abroad. Because, in its negative opinion, the government has made a statement that this method of choice and this electoral code will already be presented so that it can be effective in the elections that will take place this year. So so that at least this can be fulfilled, so please support the discussion of this press. We want to fulfill the government's programming statement in opposition, do not prevent us from doing so. In fact, we also pointed out the need for a correspondence vote at the time when the regional elections were held, when we suggested that the correspondence option be used as an option for limiting movement and limiting the need for contact during the pandemic. We have been waiting for this electoral code since the end of 2019 when it was submitted from the Legislative Council and waiting for the government to be appointed. The correspondence vote operates in 21 countries of the European Union, including Slovakia, where they have long-term functional experience. About two percent of the voters vote. Slovák have about the same size diaspora abroad, i.e. their citizens living abroad and working there for a long time, like us. So I think that's an appropriate comparison. Citizens living abroad will sow tens of billions of crowns per year in the Czech Republic, for example in 2019 it was 89 billion, and they are interested in this correspondence vote, as a number of initiatives have been developed to support them. That is why I think that they should be given the opportunity to fulfill at least this basic civil and political right and to take part in the vote by correspondence, especially those who are concerned with the necessity that does not have a Czech representative in their country or have to travel hundreds and thousands of kilometres to get to it. So it's the other press. [[9.10 hours]] As regards other prints that are included on today's agenda, the first one is the House press 1039 - compensation law. It is a draft law for the issuance of the State Aid Act for emergency measures announced in the context of the Coronavirus and proposes compensation of 100 per cent of fixed costs for the prohibition of activity and 50 per cent of fixed costs for the reduction of activity due to epidemiological measures. The proposal would certainly be more transparent and across-the-board than a long series of government programs and would mean clear and predictable assistance for entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, it does not address undertakings indirectly affected through supply chains and a drop in demand, yet this kind of aid would help entrepreneurs more than existing measures. So we support the release of this proposal by second reading, where we can discuss it in more detail. Next, the second reading of the House's press is 219, which is an extension of the possibility of removing benefits in material distress. This is an amendment from the ODS workshop and was originally presented as the introduction of the rule three times and enough, thus introducing sanctions against those beneficiaries of benefits who are convicted of a criminal offence or repeatedly commit various offences. We criticized the amendment from the beginning. In the form of withdrawal, there was a risk, for example, of neglecting schooling, at a time when distance teaching was introduced, which was often hard to reach for families from vulnerable localities. For these families, it could be annihilation. The real problem arose after discussing the proposal for a committee on social issues and a proposal for a completely social complex amendment. Its main content is the introduction of the execution of benefits and imposed fines for offences. The benefits of material distress that are mentioned here are money for families who are at the bottom and in the biggest problems, often in executions. The benefits in material distress are the only income left for them. These are money, out of which, besides food, drugstores or clothing, people also pay for housing. And if they can't reach the housing supplement because of the announcement of the so-called pay-free zones. It's the minimum they need for survival itself. And this key principle that this minimum must be left to people, in the interests of society, changes the amendment. The proposal circumvents the rules for execution and, moreover, concerns only the perpetrators of certain offences, not all, without any justification for their seriousness. Finally, there is a proposal, as the last item at this meeting, by the House press 896, which concerns benefits for the disabled. The proposal addresses the extension of the licence of disabled persons to whom the licence has been granted with a permanent validity but has expired as a authentic instrument. At present, people must ask for a re-assessment of the health condition. The process must therefore pass through the usual wheel through overloaded assessors. The card has already been granted once, in addition, with permanent effect. At the same time, in the House and in the Committee on Social Policy, the state of medical opinion, its overload and lack of doctors is being dealt with repeatedly. We therefore consider this proposal, which will make it easier for them to deal with really needed cases and people who wait months for a decision, to be useful. It is an administrative easing of the overloaded system, and we therefore support the proposal. To sum up, we support the discussion of three out of four points. So I would like to call on you, who will also certainly find your point there to support the proposal for this meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Another with priority rights, President Jurečka, then the Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will be prepared. I remind you, only priority rights, we are not in the debate, it is not possible to apply for factual comments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Good morning. Mr President, three members of the government, fellow Members, I welcome you to this extraordinary meeting in its introduction. I must say that I am glad that at least these members of the government have come, that there is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, that there is the Minister of Culture Zaorálek, because one of the points will be very much concerned with the issue of helping businesses affected by the covid. And I think it is important that the ministers here also take a stand on this matter. And then we also have a point that is very relevant to the gesture of the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček, so I am glad that he is here, too, because I think that the correspondence option is a very important point that has something to do with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agenda. And if I'm not mistaken, I think that's what the Social Democrats also wanted and wanted. And even the entire government, if I'm not mistaken, by the Prime Minister's mouth, said that it supported and wanted a correspondence choice. Anyway, now about the agenda for the meeting. We designed the program very modestly, we said, we're going to choose very important and important points that are really up to date right now, and they could help people at the time of the covid. That's why the compensation law is presented here as the main point. A compensation law that would clearly set rules predictable and readable for the business sector, not only at this time of the pandemic, but also in the future. I understand that the crisis law and its ways of compensation were designed on the basis of other historical experiences, the floods were primarily reflected there. We're in a different situation now. But I think that it is not possible for the Czech Republic to operate here in a state that there is no readable predictable mechanism, when these aids are set up ad hoc, often depending on which sector is more heard and seen, and according to this, it is determined and does not matter at all whether the business entity in question has the scope of activity and services in that sector, whether it has paid off its liabilities, such as depreciation. There's a flat-rate payment. Here's your seats. Here's your beds. Yeah, maybe it compensates for some of the situation, some of it compensates for the situation, but most of it is completely inadequate. That is why there is a group of Members who present this proposal. I would like the government to respond responsibly to it, especially when, here in the eKLEP system, the government is preparing an amendment to the crisis law, when, in fact, the entire existing passage, which concerns some possibility of compensation against affected entities, is being completely removed by the government. So here we have a situation where, last year, several hundred subjects have brought actions against the state due to significant losses caused by government measures, and instead of the government saying: we understand this, according to the current crisis law, but we do not want to do this compensation, so let's find some other, objective, predictable way of reacting to it when such measures are introduced and, in the future, if necessary, put in place, let the entrepreneur know that, for example, by limiting his sales by 50 percent, he will be entitled to such and such an amount. We have accounting here, we have electronic records of sales, tools that can be clearly extracted from how the businessman has worked in the past, and on the basis of this data, we have a reasonable, solid compensation and support. So I would welcome it if the government said in this situation: well, we're canceling it here in the crisis law, but we're going to make another law where we're going to set these things up so that there's a fair environment for these situations as well. I'd like someone from the government to comment, if the coalition majority here wants to reject the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting, so that someone from the government will also come forward and say why. I have always taken it so that the land of Parliament and the House is supposed to be about arguments and facts, not that someone here has a majority that they can wipe off the table and not allow it at all, which is likely to happen today if the emergency meeting program is not approved. I will only comment marginally on the correspondence choice. However, I believe that it is unfair if we have tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people who are citizens of the Czech Republic and are abroad because of study stays, because of work stays, they are not people who would not live in the Czech Republic for decades, they are people who, for example, have to be in some part of the world for a year, where, for example, the embassy to the polling room means one two days traveling and several hundred kilometres to it, and it seems logical to me that in the 21st century we will allow these people, our fellow citizens, our children who are abroad. If I am not mistaken, the Prime Minister also says that he supports such an idea and that he will want this matter to be pushed forward during this parliamentary term. [[9.20 hours]] And then I will pause longer on the material processed by my colleague Vít Kaňkovský, a Member who responds to a situation that is particularly urgent at this time of the covid, at a time when some authorities have very limited accessibility, people working there at home office, those officials are often 50 percent there, or some of them are in quarantine and so on, but it makes sense not only in the time of the covid, but also outside. And this amendment to the Act on the provision of benefits to disabled people makes it very easier for those people who need to issue a health certificate, when the validity of the licence expires, and they are quite often in a situation where they have such a history, where it is clear that there can be no improvement in their health status. These are states where these people have significant visual and auditory disabilities or combinations of these disabilities, or they are states where parts of their limbs are missing and when it is obvious that there simply cannot be improvement of the condition. And we, in current legislation, are driving these people to that review doctor who can't give a positive opinion other than that, but still those people are going completely nonsensical, illogically into a state where they have to go there, when they're killing time, and when in this time of the covid, when there's insufficient capacity, it's in the long run with those assessors, when there's limited offices and offices available, so we're driving those people there. They often do not have the license for two, three or four months; it complicates them significantly in their life in terms of parking, in terms of travel, in terms of the right to buy a car for a person in the family with such a handicap. That is why it seems perfectly simple, banal and logical to make a minor legislative regulation that has been here for three quarters of a year, and say: let's allow these people not to have to do this procedure, when doctors have to do it, but for these states the extension took place automatically. I think that such a thing is logical, and it would cost no financial cost of the state budget, and on the contrary, there would be a small cost savings in the state's spending, a disbandment of the capacity of assessors for other activities we need, and we know that those assessors are not in a position to see that there is a shortage of them. So I'm asking you to consider giving room to discuss these prints. These are the laws at first and second reading so that the coalition here is not cowardly by rejecting the agenda of this meeting from a position of strength, but by showing that it has the power to argue, possibly numbers, and let us decide on these matters in a democratic vote. Let us decide after the amendments are tabled, let us decide in the third reading vote. But to say that the laws that some of them lay here for practically over a year, like this law that I'm talking about here, have been passed sometime in the first half of last year, so that these things can be discussed. A lot of people turned to me when I talked about it yesterday, people who are either disabled or have these people as close to their families, and they say, yes, it's completely pointless. Moreover, this legislation is also in the opinion that it offers a mechanism when the card is due to expire, so that at the latest two months before the expiry of its term, people are told that the validity of the bill is over, so that they can get the new one in time. That means this state's client approach. So discussing this kind of press today is a matter of ten minutes, and we can finish it in a month, and it can help a lot of people. So I'm asking you to remember this and consider how you're going to vote in the finals if you're going to give room and press like this to discuss today's extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I'll read additional apologies. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes for the whole of today's meeting due to urgent work issues, Minister Miroslav Toman apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. The Vice-President of the House Petr Fiala will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u6	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I want to talk here about the two proposals that we want to include on the agenda for this extraordinary meeting. Maybe I'd start a little bit in general. There are such rules, and there are often things that we can certainly discuss, whether they are right, whether they are necessary, whether they are necessary, whether we should make any adjustments at all, and then there are rules that, I would say, are actually obvious, for which we should actually consider our duty to eliminate any injustice, the obstacle that, for example, we are removing obstacles to the free exercise of economic or political activity. In fact, we should take that for granted. I think that in the second category, those things that are obvious and that we should focus on and we should correct them, the proposal for a State Aid Act for emergency measures announced in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus, i.e. the compensation law, which we are presenting here in cooperation with colleagues from TOP 09, KDU-ČSL and also with members from STAN, and, secondly, in this category, I believe that the proposal also includes allowing Czech citizens to vote in correspondence abroad, which here presents a relatively wide coalition across the parliamentary clubs in this House. Shortly to the first proposal, the compensation law. I think we really should take that for granted for two reasons. First, if state power temporarily restricts or bans the pursuit of free economic activity, then compensation must simply follow. This is happening to some extent, but it should be done according to simple, clear and understandable rules. And I think that's something, the simple, clear and understandable rules, that the compensation has to come, that there must be help, that there should be no doubt. We present here a very simple, clear and understandable rule that replaces fixed costs for closed or limited operations. It must be clear to all of us, and I like to point out here that in practice it will bring justice primarily to the weakest, most vulnerable groups of economic activities. And to protect those who are weaker, those who have bigger problems, who can't handle as well as big businessmen, we should care about this protection. They're specific people, and here I'm talking about tens of thousands of employees, their families who built their own existence with their own hands, started family companies, their businesses, their business activities, and now they've been hard to resist those bans and restrictions as a result of the pandemic, and their dreams are actually ruined. And the help that's coming is inadequate, it's often unavailable. These government programs are too complicated. I was just talking to a businessman yesterday who told me how 78 hours she tried to fill out all those forms on the Internet for the COVID - Rent program. Seventy-eight hours. She's been doing it all night, getting up every hour to let the system in to get there. Eventually, after seventy-eight hours, she succeeded. [[9.30 hours]] Those are the stories of people who are on their own who can't hire anyone to do it, who can't be helped and whose business is precisely the complexity, the things they have to overcome to get some help, threatened. This compensation law helps all such people. And ladies and gentlemen, these people don't want much, these people don't want anything more, these people just want justice. Replace it with at least part of what we can't earn with our own work, help us survive economically when we can't do business when we can't offer our own service. And I believe that these people have a clear right to do so and that there is really no need to discuss it. That was the first reason to accept the compensation law. The other reason is equally serious, why, in fact, what is in that compensation law, the principles on which it is built, the rules why it should be taken for granted. None of us knows, and neither does the government, how long business activities will have to be restricted, how long the bans will continue. No wonder people are tired, frustrated, some are economically on their knees. And we ask them to have confidence, to have understanding, to have patience, to follow the bans and orders. But we can't ask them to do that if we don't give them clear rules at the same time. We will not also give them guarantees that if the life and economic activity of these people is limited, the state will also help them to survive. They need these guarantees, they need this certainty that the state will help them, and then they'll be much more prepared to respect, endure, endure, trust in those anti-pandemic measures. On this first point, I would like to mention briefly, or reject, government proposals or a government position. The government has literally filled us with rejecting opinions on our proposal. It seems to me that there is one thing out of all the reservations the government has about it, or, I'm sorry, that's what I see, and that's a kind of distortion of the world, a distorted view of the world by the government. Please note what the government is arguing. It stretches like a red thread with all those arguments from start to finish. And that's the red thread of suspicion. It's like everyone who's in business is a potential criminal, a potential con man. And since that's the case, we can't simply compensate, we can't help quickly, we can't just compensate for the net losses, not enough affidavits, not enough simple documents, not enough things to do quickly. Because what if someone, and they'd probably take advantage of it and all that. The government's argument is a red thread of suspicion. And I say, this is a really shameful approach to people, you can't approach people like that. I reject this mentality, this government setting that just shines through that text. And I have another proposal, another proposal for all of us, another proposal for the government. Instead of suspecting, let's try to trust people. Instead of all the complicated procedures and all the different ideas on how to compensate, let's make sure. A certainty they're entitled to. Instead of bureaucracy, more and more complex, instead of checking and checking, let us be aware of the situation we are in. Let's free people from unnecessary duties and formalities, no one needs it, and let's give people what logically belongs to them, of course, in this difficult situation. I know that the government is based on an argument and an opinion that it wants to go the way of the individual measures for each of the segments concerned. That's how it's done. But, and we all know that, it doesn't really work. A lot of people are repeatedly forgotten, a lot of people don't fit in repeatedly. A lot of people don't know: we're gonna be entitled to it, we're not gonna be, there's gonna be some help, there's gonna be a program, isn't there? It can't be like this. If I listened well, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček himself acknowledged that it is not possible to invent a special program for each field. Yes, it isn't. I agree with that. It is also important, therefore, that we adopt a compensation law in order to adopt this compensation law. So that we don't have to wait for some programs to pass, so that people don't have to wait for government press releases on TV, if they're gonna get their turn, if they're gonna wait, but just so they know, they just know they're gonna get 100 percent or 50 percent of their fixed costs if they're banned or severely restricted. When we expect people to behave, be responsible, be patient, let's do the same. Let us act responsibly, and if the government for reasons no one questions forbids people to do business, then let us replace what is theirs. Let's replace them with fixed costs and allow them to survive. Madam, honourable Members, the second proposal I wish to comment on is of a similar nature. It's actually something obvious. We eliminate injustice, we compare the environment. This concerns the electoral law of Czech citizens abroad. And really just a few very brief comments. First, let's be clear - we all know this here, but it doesn't sometimes sound so clear in the media - that we're not talking about a correspondence national vote, about sending votes in an envelope somewhere from Humpolec to Jihlava or from Rokycan to Plzeň. We are talking about students in the world, Czech students in the world, top professionals working abroad, Czech employees of international institutions and companies. Does anyone have a problem with these people, students abroad, top experts, employees of international firms exercising their rights as a citizen of the Czech Republic, one of the fundamental rights, and voting? Anybody got a problem with that? He doesn't. After all, it is up to us, and it is logical and obvious that we allow them to exercise this right. And let's see how we set it up in the Czech Republic. We have every election created, built, set up election rooms so that you just need a few steps, usually a few steps away from the house, a few meters away, everyone can come in person unless they have some disability. And there is no queue, as we see from some other countries, where citizens wait for, like, hours to exercise their right to vote. There's no such thing here. And if someone can't come, the election committee comes to him with an urn. This is how Czech citizens in the Czech Republic have it. And that's good. But the situation is completely different abroad. In order to exercise your right, you have to go hundreds - or go, you can't go, go, fly - hundreds or thousands of kilometers. It's extremely complicated. And you have no choice but to do it. You can't even vote in some countries and you have to move to another country. All we want to do is to have the imaginary urn come to these people, so that they have a chance to vote as well as any Czech citizen who is in the Czech Republic has the right. Second comment. The government says we're going to deal with the same thing, too, but not now and not here, not with this arrangement. Well, honourable members of the government, but the elections to the Chamber of Deputies have already been announced. And I don't see any government proposal here, it's just not here. And for us, representatives of the opposition, it could have been surprising that elections were being announced. And it was, I didn't deny it, it was very surprising. Since the election announcement requires the co-signing of the Prime Minister, it was not so surprising for you. When you knew that elections would be announced, you could submit an amendment that would allow Czech citizens abroad to vote in a normal way. You had three years. You didn't do it. [[9.40 hours]] And I'm not here to blame you. We did it. The broad coalition of the members of this Chamber of Deputies has presented a bill that addresses this problem and corrects the situation, and is fair and simple again. We want to facilitate the exercise of free electoral rights by up to half a million citizens of the Czech Republic who live abroad. I just beg you, in my opinion, really understandable, simple, fair, of course, come support it, or submit an alternative or make some amendments that will make it better. But let's do it. And what I'm asking you to do is not to turn it down. Let us give people confidence that on October 8 and 9 they will be able to vote, to exercise their basic political law, and to exercise it regardless of whether they are in the Czech Republic or are in another country for work or other reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, these were my notes on the two very important designs we have here today. And I'm asking you to approve the agenda for the meeting so that we can discuss these things, both of these things and other important laws properly here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Pekarová Adamová, after whom Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u8	Dear Member of the Government, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, allow me, too, to comment on the programme that we are proposing at this extraordinary meeting today. These are only four laws, but four very important standards that can greatly improve the situation in the Czech Republic. As for the first one we call the so-called compensation law, in this case, I'd like to take a little field trip to last year. Let us remember when Coronavirus came to the Czech Republic when the first cases appeared here, which was on March 1st last year, and began to adopt various general measures very quickly, an area quarantine, at which time we did not call it a lockdown, but in essence it corresponded to a lockdown, so we asked the government as a opposition, and even here the resolution was adopted to prepare a compensation law by the end of June. Let's remember the debate. The measure was declared in accordance with a law which is not prepared or tailored to such a situation, where the threat does not require floods, but it is a virus that caused the global pandemic. And the uncertainty for many entrepreneurs and businessmen, if they can even compensate for the fact that they had to close their businesses from one day to the next, shut down their businesses, stop producing, stop selling, provide services, was huge. And there are also a number of lawsuits, it certainly goes into hundreds, which are aimed at the state by businessmen and entrepreneurs and aimed precisely because they wanted to apply the possibility that follows from this law, but which is quite controversial and the interpretation is different. That is why we wanted the law to be prepared in such a way that it would correspond to the situation in order not to take account of the fact that it entertains property for some time and is used to eliminate the damage caused by floods, as we have experienced here in the past, but that it is impossible to make money at all, the impossibility of continuing to operate. And time went by so that the government didn't prepare anything for this matter. Yes, you have declared individual programs by law within individual ministries, whether it is Antivirus, whether it is a compensatory bonus or various programs by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Industry and Trade and others, and it already includes 42 different programs today. But in order to be clear, the legal certainty given to all entrepreneurs, you did not have to do that and you do not have to do that to this day. Therefore, during the summer of 2020, we sat down, wrote this standard that we are presenting here today, and we repeatedly ask you to do one thing: let it go to first reading, so that we can have a discussion about it at all and talk about the individual parameters of the law. You still haven't allowed that, and we're six months after that. The law was introduced here at the end of the summer, it was presented to the House. And if there had been greater will on your part, it could have been discussed really during October when the deadlines were reduced, and it could have been effective since November. That means he could have helped people who needed help so much already. Basically, we were at the end of January, so three months, three months, these people could already have the legal certainty to help. As I mentioned, 42 programs. It looks amazing at first sight. It really helps everyone, at least that's the way to hide it. However, the aid is in the industry. The help, of course, tries to be very targeted, but it always forgets someone, someone doesn't always have to fit in it. It is also true that the programs are changing differently over time. The terms of the applications are complicated. And they are already experienced in the fact that many who, while receiving help at first, had to return the aid after state control. Specifically, the figures brought in yesterday by Hospodářské noviny are up to a dozen percent, namely 40 percent of the controlled companies had to return at least part of the government's aid, even if they had just made a formal error, for example, in the context of the request, which, as I say, is often very difficult. As you can see, even the government's current aid doesn't contain all of it, virtually. are sectors associated, which are not prohibited from doing business, but will not receive the assistance. We can extend our compensation law to remember these specific cases as well. You know, the word "support" or "help" in this case is kind of insulting and defamatory, because these people wouldn't ask for that help, they wouldn't ask for it if they could keep working. And we all know, yes, it is necessary to give some general measures, we can't do without some and we can't cope with the situation, even with them we can't handle it very difficult, virtually. It's more like we can't handle it. But in this case, the word compensation is much more appropriate. It's really supposed to be about compensating for something those people didn't do themselves. They're failing now. Many of them have failed and will never open again. Others are on the verge of this collapse. And it's not because their services are bad. It is not because they sell poor quality food in their restaurant and their service is not friendly to their customers. Nor is it because the hotel, which has been running for 20 years, decades, is often also a family business, so it is not because it is poor quality and there would be no demand for these services, but the demand was banned. The rest of us can't ask for the services, we can't buy them, we can't pay them for their work. And in this way, in this point of view, it just needs to be said that this is really just a compensation for what these people would normally earn, and from their earnings, income would pay the costs they have. We want to pay the fixed costs of all those who are forbidden or restricted to do business. The figures that last year we have the opportunity to find out from public statistics and are already complete because 2020 is over are really alarming. It fails the most entrepreneurs or interrupts activity, which is in a way very similar. More than 100,000 people have already interrupted their business in the past year, and more than 36,000 have completely shut it down. They're all really very high numbers. Also, at least in the last four years, he's started a business. No wonder. But it's important to think about these people. [[9.50 hours]] Indeed, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly concerned, can no longer afford another month of lockdowns without the help of traveling to them. And we can talk here about how long it takes. I've mentioned it many times before. It's not that, in one week, after a long promise, it's often written out some sort of compensation program, like gastro, so that in the next week, those people have money in their account. Some people in the public may get that impression because they talk a lot about it, so they may feel like it's all going on like clockwork, that the help really comes from day to day to day. These are experiences from other European countries, but unfortunately the Czech Republic is not one of them at all. It takes weeks and months for the applicant to actually get help. So if servers don't burn, and all these specific requests are irretrievably lost by the Ministry, if there isn't such a problem yet. But the problems that have occurred in recent times are so much that all those who have tried to get any help at all are already losing their trust that this state is serious about compensation. They're the backbone of our economy. Let us remember that small and medium-sized enterprises are indeed the backbones of the economies there in all developed countries, and it is also the case in the Czech Republic. And just as the body, the human body, will collapse without the spine, so our economy will collapse without them and it will have far-reaching consequences. Therefore, they need to be compensated more effectively, more clearly, more fairly and more quickly. All this compensation law, which I have been presenting here for several times and which we have been preparing with a group of Members on four sides overall, guarantees. I fear that from this crisis, which is far from over, those who are already rich and big will emerge. In many of these sectors, they will be able to afford precisely that those small and medium-sized ones, who will no longer be able to breathe, who will run out of breath and who no longer have any of the imaginary cotton that some ministers mentioned here at the beginning, will be bought, swallowed up, and then the competition here will be far from as it has been. And I believe you don't want to let that happen either. The state just has to act like a safety net at this time of year to those people, and not like a drone that goes after them for every little thing they do wrong in the request that the state has prepared for them so complicated that they often find it hard to understand. I hear the criticism from the government Members, by ministers, that we have not been able to quantify them in the budget, that we have not been able to put them there. It's very difficult to quantify, I'm sure you will recognize it, but what you have to acknowledge for yourself is that you promised at the very beginning of the corona crisis that the aid of the state, both on direct aid and on compensations and also on cover, guarantees, will be up to CZK 1.2 trillion. Last year we can sum up nicely again and we see that it is a complete utopia that we are not close to such a sum. Neither did it spread over the years, as the Minister of Industry and Trade claimed that it was necessary to do. There's still enough room to give these compensations clear rules and some of those ministerial programs that are ineffective, where the conditions are very complicated and written only for a few chosen ones, eventually cancel because they won't be necessary. The fixed cost of 100 per cent to those who are not allowed to do business is sufficient assistance, of course in combination for example. with Antiviruses, and I firmly believe that we will finally pass the Cursarbeit Act to replace them with even more effective and even better oversized aid, and we will be able to compensate all those who now have this business so complex, because even the various sectors that are very small, which are not, for example, gastronomics or hotels or even culture, but they are smaller types of business that have no specific program, so it is necessary to compensate and affect them. That is why I am asking you to approve the agenda for this meeting today and to finally have a chance to have a really fair talk about this law so that we can have this discussion here. Let's talk about the individual parameters. We are prepared for the need to change it according to the ideas, so that it is across the political spectrum of conformation, but it is necessary to begin the debate at all. And we can decide that in a few minutes in the vote. The other law that we are presenting here is the law on so-called law. a correspondence choice. There has already been much said to him, so I will just briefly add, once again, as time went on with this law. For more than 15 years, there has been a debate in the Czech Republic about the possibility that citizens who live abroad for a longer time or just study there are working for a transitional period, but they are simply present abroad at the time of the elections, we would make it possible to make a correspondence choice. Fifteen years, maybe sixteen, debates and discussions that have not yet led to the outcome. We have already submitted a code of correspondence in the last parliamentary term. We have already submitted it during this parliamentary term. We prepared it in cooperation with experts from the Ministry of the Interior, comments from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs we also worked on. That means, we really took the preparation very seriously so that the law had no cracks to criticize. Let us remember that in the European Union, we are one of the last countries that is this backward and does not allow their people to make this choice. One of the last states. 23 countries of the European Union, until recently still with Great Britain 24, so now only 23, but still a complete majority, allow this choice for its citizens long ago. In Slovakia, with our neighbors, commonplace. In other states, it's a very common thing. And I already know there's going to be a comparison with America, that there's going to be speeches -- watch out for it, look at America. So please, let's compare comparable electoral systems. The way of choice in our country is what the European countries use, it is verified and functional, guarantees the secrecy of the choice, guarantees the possibility of the election that these people do not really have today, they only have it theoretically. Because if you live in Australia or Canada, the UK, in a more remote city than the embassy or the representative office, you'll probably recognize that flying, buying a ticket is a total utopia and impossible thing for most people to do. For them it is not tens of meters or hundreds of meters as in our case, when in the Czech Republic we go to our own polling room, for them it is tens, hundreds, even thousands of kilometers. And many of them really do call for this choice because they are very careful about what is going on in the Czech Republic, and they would like to come back here, and therefore they also have an interest in influencing what the results of the elections will be. Indeed, the government is certainly aware of this, because otherwise it would not have put a correspondence option in its own programming declaration. You seek it, but only on paper again, because here in the House we are the law on correspondence choices or electoral laws that would introduce it, they did not discuss it at all because they were not presented to us. We are here to comment on our proposal, because once, as you remember, it has already been discussed, then it has been returned to the petitioners, so we have worked them all out. You can be sure that dozens of hours of qualified work are being done on this, and therefore the proposal can not only be discussed, but let us also discuss it in committees, talk about things that may still interfere with you there, so let us adjust them, but let us finally give these people, our countrymen, citizens abroad the opportunity to vote. [[10.00 hours]] Do you know how much money comes from them to the Czech Republic every year? Last year, CZK 89 billion. I think they deserve - and I don't want to take it, they have - but they deserve to be able to have a simplified exercise of their basic civil rights. And let us remind you that there is a challenge, for example, to our scientists, Czech scientists, who live abroad, who are doing a good name for the Czech Republic in the academic environment, and they are very much interested in making this choice for both them and for students and many other citizens. I'm sure they've turned to each and every one of you. I will also remind you that in the summer of last year, when the Senate elections and regional councils were being dealt with here, within a few weeks, we were really able to discuss, approve in the order of weeks, but also prepare a law that allowed people in quarantine to exercise their right to vote. I could do that. At first there was a great distrust from the Ministry of the Interior, let us recall the statement that people in quarantine would not simply vote, but during the week Minister Hamáček turned around and acknowledged that by the time it was thousands, perhaps tens of thousands of people, it was necessary to deal with it. And I'm grateful for that. I'm happy for that, and I believe that all those who took advantage of it back then. The preparation then lasted a few days, we were able to make very quickly, all parties, their representatives, meet at the Ministry of the Interior, ask for their comments, ask for our proposals, even then we tried to make a correspondence option, but it was not generally accepted, in any case we managed to find a solution for people in quarantine. It was worth it for the thousands, units of thousands of people we knew would be quarantined at the time of the election. Here we know that there are hundreds of thousands of people, really hundreds of thousands of people, some estimates say up to 600,000 people. And what do we say to them? That it's not worth it? I firmly hope that it is worth it for you, and therefore, let us also use this extraordinary meeting to finally move this bill forward, so that we can discuss it and finally repay these people the debt we have against them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura, will prepare the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u10	Good morning. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the members of the multicultural bloc to introduce correspondence elections, i.e. ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 is not new, but its absurdity and purposefulness stands out only today, when correspondence elections have completely questioned the regularity of the US elections, with the key elections to the Chamber of Deputies in the Czech Republic this October. And the second round of the last presidential election had to be repeated because of the problem with the correspondence election in neighbouring Austria. The SPD movement promotes democracy and transparency in elections, and we therefore fundamentally reject the Act on the introduction of correspondence elections. I am glad that we have secret elections, and therefore it is also desirable that we maintain the secret choice to the maximum. For us, the SPD, to make the elections credible and minimize the possibility of fraud and manipulation is such a crucial thing that for this reason we will not support the programme of this extraordinary meeting, although there are other positive points on the proposed programme. Indeed, the SPD has already proposed more than fifty laws and amendments to financial support and compensation for employees, businessmen and companies affected by existing government measures. We are currently pushing the government to forgive health and social insurance payments to all businessmen who have a difficult business for a period of government measures. We also propose a simple system of compensation for entrepreneurs affected by measures, in order to receive an average of 60 to 70 percent of the difference in sales for 2019 and 2020, these are the sales that are, of course, official, the Financial Office knows about them, and the 60, 70 percent, of course, according to the field of activity, can be adjusted, should cover only fixed costs, not profit. It is clear, understandable, simple, transparent, and it is indeed a model used in Germany and other most advanced countries. I don't know why the government doesn't want to do this, still complicated programs in which people often don't even know each other properly, yet here is an opportunity to show those who properly tax their revenues, who have properly paid taxes on their honest work to help them. Another point, which is also on the proposed programme, is the support of disabled people, and even here in the SPD we have a clear conscience, because we have also passed a law that has been here for many months to increase the contribution to care for disabled people for the first and second degree of addiction. So we have our concrete bills here that lie with us, the government is blocking them. So, of course, we support the disabled, as well as for disabled pensioners, but the old-age pensioner is also here our law, which has also been here for a long time, on the legalization of a minimum decent pension at the level of the poverty threshold set by the European Statistical Office, Eurostat, is less than 15 thousand a month. I don't understand why the government will let it go and let the tens of thousands of pensioners who have pensions up to ten, eleven thousand crowns live. The government doesn't realize that money can't be spent on it, and it'd rather just give a one-off election allowance, better than nothing, of course, we also vote for one-off support for disabled, old-age pensioners, but fair would be to give them the basic certainty. After all, the Minimal Dignity Retirement Act applies in many states, the advanced states of Europe. And, of course, under the terms of the years worked and since that amount, basic merit, so it wouldn't concern, it doesn't concern any inadaptable ones. Of course, the SPD is also served here when I discuss the draft meeting, the SPD has submitted a comprehensive amendment to the Act on the cessation of the abuse of benefits so-called. Inadaptable. It's the law on material distress, it's called the law. Well, our law has already passed the first reading, and now it's time for the second reading. So even this point that's been designed here, the SPD is basically further in it as far as the law is concerned. So, of course, we're working on it, so no one here can blame us, no one can say that I would perhaps blame the points that are here on the agenda of the meeting, except for the correspondence votes that are here on the agenda of the extraordinary meeting proposed by the multicultural bloc, so that perhaps the SPD would not work on these topics, on the contrary, we are much further away on some issues than those parties are proposing here, and on the contrary, we would like these parties to support our proposals. And there it is. On the contrary, the problem is that parties such as ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, Pirates and the STAN movement do not support these positive proposals of ours, often do not support them, some yes, some no, and now actually lately there are some suggestions from their side. So it seems to me like the intention that the above-mentioned parties, proposing a correspondence choice, have also mixed other positive points on the agenda of their proposed extraordinary meeting today so that they can publicly say how evil we are, that we have refused to approve the agenda of the meeting and that something positive has not passed because of it. After all, when I heard the previous speeches here, it's fully confirmed to me that's why they mixed it up like this. Because you know very well that you could formally convene two extraordinary meetings in a row on one day, where there would be only a correspondence choice and the other, which is positive for citizens, but you didn't deliberately do it. [[10.10 hours]] So I'm going to repeat that the program where the correspondence election law is being discussed is simply unacceptable to the SPD because we are rejecting the possibility of election manipulation. And again, I'm saying that these compensations and other positive laws for citizens are already more or less from the SPD pen. They are on the agenda of the House meeting and are also at a more advanced stage than those proposed by these other parties that propose this meeting. So it would be logical, on the contrary, to support us, but there's a strain on their part. It's politics. If one of the citizens of the Czech Republic lives abroad and is interested in voting, this can already be done at our representative offices. It is not the way to democracy, but the way to hell, because nothing so doubts the credibility of the elections as well as the correspondence vote. It's not just the manipulation of the census, it's also the fact that there's a real possibility of buying votes. Of course, if the House agrees without the votes of the SPD Members that a voter can sell his vote, then the correspondence option is the easiest mechanism. Indeed, it is remarkable how ODS, Pirates, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 pushes this law in the form of an extraordinary meeting just before the elections to the House. That's not a coincidence, that's an intention. Not only in Austria or the US, the elections were called into question. Fraud and scams are proven to happen in the Czech Republic. Probably the most famous of many examples are repeated convicted electoral manipulation in the northern Bohemian town of Krupka. So instead of introducing another option for manipulation, we should go in the exact opposite direction, which means, for example, shortening the choices to one day. The fact that votes are being tampered with, and the easiest way to do that is to disable ballots that are not appropriate. I remember when we did a random check on the votes of the pre-last elections in the Central Bohemia Region, so after we crossed five percent, suddenly there was a rocket rise in invalid voices always where we were threatened to cross the 5% limit in the census. Of course, right after the election, we filed a complaint, and instead of being investigated, they threw it off our table just for a formal reason, without any investigation into suspicion of manipulation. Unfortunately, there is no possibility today to examine whether an invalid vote has been misfilled by the electorate or supplemented by an error by a member of the commission because they are nominees of different political parties and, of course, no party is able to occupy all the electoral committees with its nominees. Given that each member of the committee is busy with his own pile of votes, there is, of course, an illusion of some mutual functional control. Unconfident elections are very damaging to democracy, and it is remarkable how the gangs who pretend to be democratic are fighting against democracy in practice, whether it is their rejection of a real democracy in which a voter has the real power, I mean how they reject the SPD's laws on referendums or the direct election and rebuttal of politicians, or perhaps their attempts to distrust the most of the elections. I understand that the ODS, the Pirates, the STAN, the KDU-ČSL and the TOP 09 reject real democracy, but that is why at least what we have so far from democracy must be protected from these parties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u12	I thank Vice-President Tomio Okamur. Now, Mr Radim Fiala with priority rights, the chairman of the club. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u13	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also speak to this extraordinary meeting as chairman of the SPD's parliamentary club. As far as the individual points proposed are concerned, my previous speakers have already talked about this, but I will still return to some of them. First of all, so-called. Indemnification law. I am convinced that a transparent standard, which will add money to businessmen, to entrepreneurs to survive, is needed here. Such a clear mechanism still does not exist from the government in the Czech Republic. Let me get back to the epidemic, because that's actually the reason we're discussing standards that would add money to the businessmen. In my opinion, the government is not running the epidemic. The dog doesn't pay anymore. We were supposed to be at a different level than we are. The government claimed that it was doing this so that we could know clearly what would happen next. So now we don't know. All we know is that the emergency will probably be here until the end of the world, because nothing else comes from what the government has in that dog. By the way, let me draw your attention to one more little interesting thing, that even the dog's pictogram doesn't fit the law 246 to protect animals from abuse, because the dog has bought ears. Well, that's just a little interesting. As far as the SPD is concerned, we believe that the government should manage the epidemic differently, that, firstly, it should protect vulnerable groups - these are risk groups, mainly seniors, mainly disability, sick people - and others should allow them to do business to a limited extent, to enable them to live a normal life, because the greatest compensation cannot compensate for everything. These people have loans, they have loans, they have leases, they have to feed families and government measures that last a year, a year and a half, they just can't survive in principle. I mean, as I have listened to it today, it is clear to me that what we want to propose today, for example, in the compensation law, is not the protection of entrepreneurs, tradesmen from the epidemic, but it is the protection of businessmen, entrepreneurs from government measures, because it causes those people to be unable to do business. Secondly, in addition to protecting risk groups, we propose that hospital capacities be built, because it is clear that the risk groups are the most vulnerable to infection and that the course of conavir is very difficult and complex. Therefore, building hospital capacity is very important. Thirdly, vaccination is where the government and the EU have also failed. We say that whoever wants to get vaccinated, and these are the very risk groups, should be vaccinated, and the vaccination should be quick to be effective, and that, of course, has failed. Furthermore, the government that doesn't have the vaccines has no needles, no vaccinations. We also suggest that everyone choose a vaccine if they want to be vaccinated. So he can choose a vaccine because each vaccine has different vaccination comforts. Some are vaccinated once, some are re-inoculated, some are stored at minus 20, some are in minus 70 and of course those are stored at minus 20, which is, for example, AstraZeneca-Oxford, which the EU has not approved yet, but in the UK, countries outside the EU are already ingested with it, so it could also be useful for practitioners, because if we do not involve a practical doctor in vaccination, it will be a big problem and this vaccination may take more than a year in the Czech Republic. So it was about the epidemic. We are proposing major changes because the long-term global government measures for entrepreneurs, businessmen simply cannot survive economically. And the result will be that the economic and social impact on the whole of society can be far greater than the health impact. Another law proposed in this extraordinary meeting is assistance in material distress. It's a bill from the ODS pen. We agree with him, I am just a little sorry, because even our colleague, Vice-President of the Social Affairs Committee Lucie Šafránková, has a proposal there, which is already at second reading, after second reading, and we wanted these two laws to have a merged debate. That means both of us will propose the laws, both the one who is in this extraordinary meeting and ours, to discuss in a variable week. [[10.20 hours]] And, of course, another bill, granting benefits to people with disabilities. It's clear to us that the point is that people whose diagnosis is perfectly clear don't have to extend their disability cards. It's very complicated, especially at this time of coronavirus. And it's the people in the risk group where we say that the government should protect them more. This means that we also support this law and we will support it, and if it is proposed for discussion in a variable week, we will propose it. But what is a big problem for us, and it has already been said here, is the law on elections, which means so-called. a correspondence vote. I don't know if it's any fun, funny, but after the problems that arose with the correspondence vote in the United States of America, and you know that it hasn't been dealt with, that it hasn't been investigated, that it hasn't been tried by the court, that it's okay, or that it's not okay, so we can't support this law. We can't vote for it. In my opinion, this is an option to manipulate elections. If people feel that elections aren't fair, that they don't have a chance to change things, they'll take a pitchfork. And that's the worst thing that can happen when these things turn into violence, and we're against violence. And if you look around, the violence is full of the world today. That means we're not going to support the correspondence option. On the contrary, we think that we should contribute to making elections clear, fair, readable, and not to doubt democracy in such democratic countries as the United States of America. Because it doesn't bring stability to the whole world. It will not bring faith in democracy, it will not bring stability and it is a big problem. This means that we will not vote on correspondence voting because of the legislation that has just been proposed, we will not support this proposal for an extraordinary meeting, because we believe that it can endanger democracy, democracy as well as in the whole world as in the Czech Republic. And, of course, we will support the other proposals in this extraordinary meeting today at any time if they are included in the Chamber of Deputies' deliberations whenever we support them and we will be happy to debate them. I think this is very important, but because of the Act on Elections, namely the correspondence vote, we cannot support this whole emergency meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u14	I would like to thank Mr Radim Fial and ask for a short stay because I have joined the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u15	Have a good morning. The word is given by Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip and Minister Tomáš Petříček will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will not discuss the four points that are proposed for this extraordinary meeting. I'll deal with what actually happened. By convene this meeting thanks to the signatures of my fellow Members. You know, I've got an unfinished answer to a written interview, and I'm not alone. There are several outstanding written interpelations, and for the second time this meeting has taken away the opportunity for me to discuss with the Minister, and therefore not only with the Minister of Defence, but also with the Prime Minister, the rejection of the interpelation because it is serious. And interpelation isn't a funny procedure. Interpelation is a constitutional institute of parliamentary democracy enshrined in Article 53 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and its implementation under Section 11 of the Rules of Procedure Act allows Members to discuss this at a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. But this is where the negotiations are multiplying, which actually make it impossible for a normal constitutional procedure. Neither of these four points is assigned to this meeting, to the meeting that is taking place, at 79. I don't know why we couldn't discuss this or that point on the Gremium. But this is a withdrawal of my constitutional right. And not only my fellow Members, but also other Members, who were able to discuss their written interpelations. And at 11 o'clock, we could have a proper 79th meeting discussing one of those points that was proposed at this emergency meeting. I fundamentally reject that political negotiations between individual political clubs in the Chamber of Deputies should be replaced by force-pressing either by a minority or by a majority! This can't be happening! This did not happen here even in the most difficult times when the government was distrusted in 2009. And it was a hundred-hundred, and yet we were able to make a normal deal! But these games, who push here more politically, who will take a stand to make it impossible for others to exercise their constitutional right, I really don't like it. I'm sorry, I suggested, and the KSČM MP agreed that we would not approve the agenda of this meeting because it is not a normal political procedure. On the contrary, it is a procedure that prevents our constitutional law from having a proper discussion, for example, of the written interpelation and oral interpelation in the afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u17	Now the Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček has the floor and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová will prepare herself. And I'm handing over the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u18	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to comment briefly on the subject of correspondence voting for our citizens abroad. The Government has made a clear commitment in its programming declaration to facilitate access to elections, including the introduction of correspondence elections abroad. It is a matter where we are aware of how complicated it has been for our citizens who have been abroad for a long time, especially in those big countries. The fact that they have to travel thousands of kilometres often, spend considerable resources to exercise their fundamental rights, which democratic countries like the Czech Republic give them, is to participate in the decision-making of the future of our country. The Czech Social Democratic Party is making a clear statement on this commitment, which we have in our programming statement. Let me also mention that we are fully aware that citizens who live, study, work abroad have a relationship with our country. They are people who study, they are scientists, they are people who work hard and who often want to go back to the Czech Republic, and therefore also want to have the opportunity to co-decision the future of our country, to be part of democratic elections. They are also people who spread the good name of our country abroad. They're top scientists, they're businessmen, they're highly qualified people, and they're people who also work in everyday professions, and I think we should appreciate their work. They are also people who are very often helping our country. And I'm glad the opposition is working with the data the Ministry of Foreign Affairs collects. Including the fact that our countrymen are able to send to the Czech Republic each year, spend up to 90 billion crowns. Those are really not small means. Especially at a time when we are going through a difficult period of pandemic. I would add that with regard to similar measures in the world. Here it has already been said that the 21 countries of the European Union have already put this option to their citizens by correspondence abroad. They are also all our neighbours: Slovakia, Poland, Austria, Hungary or Germany. [[10.30 hours]] As far as some criticism is concerned, I would clearly like to reject here that the correspondence choice is the way to any manipulation of the elections. Maybe I'd ask where the arguments were when the US courts decided there was no manipulation? And if, politically speaking, we question the decision-making of independent courts, I think that is very strange. In this context, I would also like to point out that we are not talking about allowing correspondence choices within the Czech Republic. This is only an option that we would give citizens of the Czech Republic living abroad. About the specific proposal. I am pleased that the opposition is also interested in this subject. But it is certainly not true that the government is doing nothing. The Ministry of the Interior has prepared a proposal that envisages the introduction of a correspondence election. And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a clear idea of how it would be possible to treat this matter in a way that is practically feasible and that any doubts that some might have are clearly refuted. Therefore, we also have specific comments from the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the proposal submitted. First of all, I would like to point out that the proposal does not contain a transitional provision that would allow us to vote in correspondence already in this year's election. However, the proposal also does not provide as a condition for the submission of a request for a correspondence vote to the representative office within 35 days of the date of the election. From my point of view, we should allow voters to apply in person or through an agent later, not later than two days before the election day. This deadline seems to be most practical, since, more than a month before the election day, voters in many cases will not yet know whether the circumstances will prevent them from voting in a presentation way. The proposal also assumes that the representative offices will send ballots to voters as part of the sending of correspondence voting documents. We also see that it could be treated better. At least in such a way as to reduce the administrative burden for our representative offices and also reduce the possible impact on the environment. The proposal, as presented, does not allow for a method of correspondence choice in the case of early elections to the Chamber of Deputies. Even in this case, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an alternative option. The proposal also includes only those votes sent by correspondence, which were duly received until the vote was opened. In this case, too, we would be leaning towards a clearer and more practical arrangement or treatment of these matters. The proposal provides for the possibility of asking the voter to be sent to him by the representative office for a correspondence vote at any address abroad. Such a solution will certainly extend the time of delivery of the consignment and will result in increased financial implications for the holding of the elections if the representative offices are forced to send documents to other countries as well. At the same time, the problems of the representative offices with obtaining confirmation of the delivery of the consignment from the carrier in the State outside the jurisdiction of that representative office cannot be excluded. Here we see interpretation problems, which can trigger the concept of the address of the voters abroad. As I have already said, the proposal also implies the possibility of asking the electorate to send him documents for a correspondence vote to any address abroad. The electoral party may therefore request the document to be sent to areas in which timely delivery cannot be objectively ensured. The proposal I could imagine doesn't make it possible to vote for a voter's ID. This possibility has been considered from our point of view, however, with regard to the administrative complexity and the low number of voters who would take advantage of such an option, the proposal was not finally incorporated into the proposal. The electorate would first have to apply to one administrative authority for a voter's card either personally or through a data box. Subsequently, he would have to contact the relevant representative office in person or through the data box to which he would have intended to vote by correspondence. These are some of the specific comments we have from the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the proposal. I will be happy to have this debate, and I think that on the subcommittee on regional affairs, we could clarify all these issues and move on. Personally, given that I am regularly in contact with the compatriots, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is indeed in charge of defending their interests, protecting their interests, so I am in favour of introducing a correspondence vote as soon as possible. But let's complete the proposal so that it is practical, feasible and exclude any possibility that it will raise doubts as to whether the ballots have ended up where they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Secretary of State Petříček. Now, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, with priority rights. Vlastimil Válek will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the proposal submitted by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Petr Fiala, Marian Jurečka, Jan Farský and others for the issue of the State Aid Act in emergency measures announced in connection with the Coronavirus, otherwise in the short term the so-called compensation law. There is no dispute over the necessity and obligation of the State to adequately compensate entrepreneurs and firms for the effects of anti-epidemic measures. In the end, I think we've been doing this since spring and we've prepared a whole series of programs. However, the proposed proposal acts as an attempt to break into an open door, considering that the government has prepared and launched a wide range of government measures since the advent of the pandemic, the common aim of which is to help entrepreneurs and companies deal with the necessary antiepidemic measures. The most important forms of aid are compensatory bonuses, tax and insurance measures, including deferral of advances, Antivirus programmes, loan guarantees, covido programmes and the like. Last year, the government spent only on direct aid to entrepreneurs and companies, i.e. I withdraw from the total amount of aid to the economy, which is 283.4 billion. 31. 12. 2020. I choose direct assistance from entrepreneurs and companies 189 billion. Crowns. So much for the argument of the plaintiff about the alleged inadequacy of the aid. In my opinion, the government has rightly decided from the outset to go about compensation for entrepreneurs and businesses through government measures aimed at different segments of the economy. These are, for example, COVID programs - Rent, COVID - Culture, COVID - Gastro closed establishments, COVID - Sport and others. This form of support is more effective, more flexible, enabling help to better target the most affected segments of the economy. And all these programmes focus primarily on the so-called fixed costs, the compensation of which is the subject of the compensation law. In my opinion, this bill of compensation is very general and superficial. It proposes 100 per cent compensation for fixed costs to those involved in the business ban and 50 per cent compensation for those to whom the business had to be restricted. There is a complete lack of elementary efforts to take account of whether the contractual obligation of an entrepreneur to cover the compensated costs arose before or after the pandemic came. The Law would thus provide a great deal of potential for abuse, since it would allow for the purpose of concluding contracts or increasing the payments contained therein precisely in order to obtain compensation. Similarly, a vague shot into the dark is the proposal to compensate limited operations for fixed costs just and only in the amount of 50 per cent. Why 50 percent? It is not possible to compare the restrictions of, for example, a restaurant that was allowed to sell drinks and meals only through the window of delivery, such as the current situation of large supermarkets and hypermarkets. Although they cannot now sell an additional product range in the form of clothing or toys, the sale of their basic product range, i.e. food, of course works and I dare say it generates considerable profits. Just for your interest, by the end of November, the year-on-year increase was almost 35 percent. The proposed adjustment can thus be unfair and ineffective because it does not take into account the causal link between the exceptional measure and the extent of the injury suffered by its addressees. [[10.40 hours]] Furthermore, there is a complete absence of efforts to prevent overlaps and duplications of aid already granted by the government and the one to be re-enabled by this law. I therefore consider individual compensation to be a clearly more appropriate instrument in this situation. The extent of the consequences of the pandemic varies with each business entity. It is very difficult to find a fragile balance between individual segments of the economy, but the government has decided not to resign on this challenge and to do its best. That is why, in this unprecedented situation, we have chosen a path to tailor-made government measures, and not a path to the first sight of simpler flat refunds enshrined very generally in the law. Our efforts were and are not to resign to linking aid to the real situation of specific entrepreneurs and firms, while minimizing the risk of unauthorized lure of funds from the state budget. Furthermore, the proposal contains a number of major legislative shortcomings, which may be due to the fact that it is a rather hot needle-sewn parliamentary proposal. For the material presented by any of my government colleagues, I would insist at least on trying to quantify the budgetary implications of the bill. The mere statement of the explanatory report that the impact of the bill on the state budget will be negative and that the specific amount is difficult to predict means a mockery of any attempt by the Ministry of Finance on responsible spending planning and the balance of the state budget, which the opposition does not often demand loudly. Nor is it clear from the draft whether compensation should be paid from the budget chapters of the compensation bodies, or from the chapter of the Ministry of Finance, or from the chapter of the General Treasury. Last but not least, the serious shortcomings of the proposal include the lack of proper adjustment of the procedural regime, who and how would handle requests for State aid under this Act. And I must stress that the so-called determining body, as defined by the petitioner, cannot be designated by a government resolution. Such a procedure would be contrary to Article 79 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 The Constitution, which implies the requirement that the powers of the administrative authorities be laid down clearly by law. In view of all these serious shortcomings in the proposal, I do not consider it appropriate, either as a lawyer or as Minister of Finance, to continue this proposal through a legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u21	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Mr. and President of the Vlastimil Válek Club will now speak with priority, and President Pekarová Adamová will prepare herself. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It's hard to convince the convinced. And I don't think they're unconvinced here that everyone knows how they're gonna or won't vote whether they're gonna support the meeting or not. But I would still like to say why I think it would be good to support this meeting and discuss these laws and at least try to get some of them to the benefit of our citizens into the order of our Republic so that they pay as soon as possible. I'll mention two. I believe that if we really seriously mean that we support our young people, that we want to support science, that we want to support research, if there really are a number of former or current academics who are serious about this, then the code of correspondence choice is the way to help it. We've got Erasmus, we've got PhD students, we've got professors, we've got plenty of scientists and researchers that we want them to work abroad to gain experience and come back to us. But they don't have that option when we vote and when elections take place. We make it very difficult for them to vote. They are mostly very responsible people who want to vote. These are people who are interested in returning to the Czech Republic and bring big money here. There are a number of artists, a number of athletes who are abroad. Let's think about our NHL hockey players, think about our football players who play for top football teams. Let us think of all those who represent the Czech Republic abroad, which we are rightly proud of. Why do we want to stop them from voting in a simple way? Why? Why not allow them to make a correspondence choice? Why not at least discuss how to simplify the situation for these people? The second thing, which I think is absolutely clear and simple, is the proposal of a colleague, through Mr President, Kaňkovský. I don't think there can be anybody in the Chamber of Deputies who thinks a man's leg will grow if he doesn't have one, he'll grow an eye if he doesn't have one, he'll grow a hand. We're here to deal repeatedly with problems related to the lack of medical examiners and the evaluation service. And now we have the opportunity to help the review service, to help the medical examiners, but above all to help those who have to prove repeatedly that their feet have not grown, the eye has not appeared, the hand has not grown. Why stop it? Why not support it? Let us look for a way to do this quickly and how here this, which, in my opinion, cannot be disputed at all, can be supported by the right and for the benefit of these people, but also for the benefit of the state. The third thing I'd like to mention is maybe a little philosophical, but I'll try. The theory of chaos is probably a theory you all know as well as you know that entropy is one of the basic physical units. The theory of chaos can be a way of driving, because even at the beginning of chaos there is a sort of order and it can be observed, even though it gradually leads to chaos. It is a question of what is better whether to increase entropy rates or reduce entropy rates. In my view, the objective should be to reduce the degree of entropy and the degree of unpredictability, the degree of confusion and chaos. And that should be something that follows all our laws. Those laws should be clear, predictable, no matter what profession, what activity a person is engaged in. Whereas we always deal with a specific group in compensation, for which someone fights, for which someone remembers, which someone realizes, and we don't deal with a number of groups. And it's logical, because we can't remember everyone, we can't remember everyone. Now it's snowing and taking care of the skiers, taking care of the lifts, and then somebody else will be dealt with. Who solves those who haven't been able to hold trade fairs for a year who haven't been able to participate in the trade fair activity for a year? And it's some 400,000 different employees, small companies that build those booths that take care of banners, all those who hold congresses that haven't existed in a year. It's one group that doesn't seem to have the strongest standing here. I'm from South Moravia, and I must mention the winemaker. Okay, we're fighting addictive substances, but gastronomy is over, so the winemakers who delivered to the gastronomy have nowhere to deliver. Sales from winery to customers who are coming are dramatically limited and those who did not have contracts with supermarkets basically have no place to sell their products. Their turnover, their income, if it's a little eseróček, didn't drop to zero, they have ten, twenty, they have about thirty percent of last year's income, and now that we've had the vintage, now that the wine starts to turn in barrels, they're finding that the next year isn't going to be much better. [[10.50 hours]] This situation really isn't good. And I don't want to fight, lobby for a group, I don't want to fight or lobby for an area, for a sector, but I want to fight and lobby for all those who have a problem because we've limited them, and we've properly limited them, some activities, some activities to get the pandemic under control, so that we don't get flooded with hospitals, so that our paramedics don't fall, and so that we can protect our citizens. On the other hand, we should somehow compensate for the losses so that they can continue to function, so that when we win over the covid, which I hope will be as soon as possible, they can continue to function and take away what they are doing to the state. That is why I think that the general law is far better than the individual sub-laws that solve individual groups. That is why I think it would be good for you, even if you are determined, to consider whether or not to support this meeting and why it would be good for you to think about whether or not these groups deserve your support, whether or not they deserve your help and whether or not they deserve your interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u23	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. Now, with Mrs Pekarová's priority right, Adamová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for your word. I allow myself to take the time to react to the pládu of various arguments, pseudoarguments and often unfortunately also lies that have been said here by some of the previous speakers. I'll take it one step at a time. Madam Secretary Schillerová. I would like to point out that in any of the laws that we approve here, it is not directly stated in the law which chapter of the budget will be covered by the law. Please, let's not do this right here, let's not say that these are standard standards and that this is a lack of law, if it's not normal, it's never in those laws. Well, that's an undignified argument, in my opinion. As well as the fact that we are unable to say and quantify the impact on the budget. You guys know how much longer these flat-rate measures are gonna be in place? Now they're even talking about tightening them up. We don't know what specific parameters of these tightenings will be. But do we know how long these people won't be able to do business? Yes, we know that many of them have not been open for more than five months. We know that. But what about the future? How many more weeks or months? I don't think anyone knows. And we didn't even have a crystal ball when we prepared this law last summer. And I'm sure we're talking billions, maybe tens of billions of crowns, that's true. But I think it would be undignified to put in just the order of such sums when we're all aware that the estimate is virtually impossible to do at a time when we don't know how long the epidemic will be here with us. And I see how vaccination works and how it's not handled, which is the way out of it, so I'm afraid it's going to be longer than a shorter time. So these are all arguments that fall here rather from some technical point of view. That's what you like to blame when you want to reject something and if you don't even want to have a fair discussion about it. That is why I ask you not to use these arguments here, so that we say fair and squarely that a number of those programs that, although they are already counting on tens today, do not exactly affect all those who today have reduced their incomes and who are failing. So let's talk about the law. And as I have said many times, and I repeat this again for sure, we are of course willing to talk about specific parameters and provisions of this law. We are willing to talk about what else needs to be added or what you think is staying there, but this discussion needs to be open at all. We need to get this bill into the committees where this discussion belongs. And there we can certainly also talk about the amendments so that they better match your point of view, the practice of the authorities, so that all the formalities you require are added there. But to make businessmen and businessmen and priori crooks, just as you outlined here, Madam Secretary, I beg you. I think government aid that is being sold so superbly - we even heard from the Prime Minister and Mr. Havlíček that some complain that it is more than they could earn if they could be open. No one has ever proved a single example of such an entrepreneur who would oppose the government this way. But that's how it works, and it's already living its life, isn't it? On the contrary, if we ask them fairly what they think about the aid, and those letters come to us, I believe that you too, not just us from the opposition, are examples of specific people, specific family companies, specific businessmen, specific smaller, medium-sized entrepreneurs, often dozens of years of business. Often those who have never asked or wanted anything from the state, and now they are in a situation for the first time, the first time they need help from the state if they are to survive, if they are to continue to provide their services, to sell their products if they are to continue employing people. So please, nicely, let's look at the reality of those who don't sleep because of it, who have a whole bunch of health problems. Because what they've been building for years, often their whole lives, is now falling apart. And not their fault. Another previous speaker, Minister Petříček. Commitment to the correspondence election. I'm sorry he's not here anymore, but maybe his colleagues at his club will tell him. The commitment to correspondence choices sounds beautiful. Let's talk reality again. In eight months, we have an end to the term of office, eight, nine, months. In such a short time it is very unlikely that you will even submit a law that arose in government at the Ministry of the Interior, which concerned, yes, not only correspondence elections, but overall, the electoral laws changed in several other areas. The guarantee that you're actually gonna make it is coming down to zero. Therefore, here repeatedly, and in this parliamentary term for several times, we have come up with this bill. And we are also responding to the reservation by you, Mr President, by President Okamura, that this is something of a purpose at this time. We're doing it repeatedly here. You can look it up in the screen records, you can see that we've already discussed the law here once. So all of this here is an odd, odd argument by those who just don't want to accept the law. The interior may have processed the proposal, but we haven't seen it here in the House. And I think we're all judicial, and we can imagine how difficult this debate on such fundamental changes in the electoral system will be and how long it will take, and that the last few months that we have in this parliamentary term will simply not be enough if we don't deal with it today. It's just high time we deal with it, if we're serious. Therefore, I cannot take seriously the words of anyone in the government who, while covering themselves with what is written in the programming statement, who is shielding himself with what the Ministry has prepared, has not actually done a single grain to actually make the proposal here possible and to discuss it. And there will be another term, another in which you two parties, the ČSSD and the YES movement, are in government. I mean, eight years in which you didn't do it. And please don't make excuses for the coronavirus crisis. She's been here less than a year. So in seven years, or six years, to be exact, the standard you claim to consider important will not be discussed. Well, that speaks for itself of the importance and priority. President Filip. Through you, Mr. Filip, to you. You said you didn't have any room to interpel, that this extraordinary meeting is actually blocking you for the second time with your questions. I firmly believe that you are willing to admit that we are not the ones who determine when the extraordinary meeting will be, and that as a member of this House's leadership, you have the opportunity to influence whether it will be on Thursday and at what time, or whether it will be on Friday or next week. You can influence all of this, so please don't play such a show on the microphone here. It's undignified. Plus, when you said how we could have discussed it, or we could have discussed it, because the bill of compensation, for example, the one we have here, is on the agenda. That's true, so I'll remind you of one vote from December 15th, when I wanted the law to be passed. Because, as you know, in the flood of dozens of proposals that are here at first reading - and I think it's already going into hundreds - the chances of it actually getting on the program are completely slim. That's why I wanted him to be firmly placed. And how did your party vote, including you? She got held up! I remind you, it's a vote, you can look it up at 72nd meeting 142, it was December 15, 2020. I've been looking into this place, so you can check that I'm not telling the truth here. [[11.00 hours]] And then to Mr. Chairman of the SPD to Radim Fial. He specifically told a lie here, so I want to turn to it through the President. Doubts about correspondence elections in the United States. He said it was never investigated, that it was never actually disproved. Well, of course, that's a total lie, and it's not true. You can look it up. This is specifically 86 lawsuits that were handled by US courts at different levels, including the Supreme Court. And even Trumpův's own Justice Minister said that they didn't discover any more massive, more extensive fraud that would be caused or associated with the election and correspondence form. So it's not true that the correspondence voices are causing some confusion. I'm saying he's the one who filed the lawsuits. Of course, he has every right. And in any state of law, such an action would be dealt with. And it is simply the conclusion of all the examinations, and I firmly believe that even Mr. Fiala will not question the American courts that they might not have done so, even for the administration of the president, who himself attacked that he really did not have any errors. And then just the last one to President Okamur through Mr President, when it comes to buying votes, he himself mentioned it here, in one particular North Bohemia city. It was another one, like White and others. We just have cases like this. And are we also canceling the elections that are being made in the standard form in our country, by the presence in the polling room personally, or by the urn that is being transferred by the electoral committee to voters all the way home if you need to be sick? Are we questioning this? Are we going to disturb them? I want to ask you like this. A rhetorical question. You don't have to answer me. I guess some would like it if the election wasn't at all. I get that. And as far as multiculturalism is concerned, as has been said here, which is smiling from one of the few of us who has really multicultural ancestors here, and that is fair to say, so I would like to recommend to President Okamur that he look at Japan. The correspondence option works there. Well, maybe it can be a good inspiration for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr. President Marian Jurečka. The Deputy President of the KDU Club, Mr Benešík, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to speak once more and respond here to some of the statements that have fallen. I find it incredibly smiling when the other man of this House is here, and I must say, unfortunately, Communist Vojtěch Filip, whom I and KDU-ČSL did not support, did not vote, here he cries and says that he resents the fact that he is being deprived of the constitutional right to interpel members of the government in which he is in a joint coalition, he, who can simply pick up the phone, to call his President Radek Vondráček House and say, I do not wish to have an extraordinary meeting scheduled for Thursday, I wish that it was Wednesday or Friday, that Radek Vondráček would agree to appoint him as the first Vice-President of this House. Like, what kind of theater is this? What are you guys playing at? You can totally fine invite any member of the government to your central committee of the Communist Party, as you do when it comes to budget and other things. And that's where they like to go, they like to care for you, they ask for support. Then you can work it out with them. But I agree with you that they're supposed to be here on Thursday, and that the members of the government are supposed to be here. And I have to say that they haven't been around much in the last few months, some of them are completely avoiding it, including the Prime Minister, who comes here very sporadically. But you have a direct influence on it, a direct leverage, so you can influence it. Even where this meeting has been included. We can't control that. We collected the signatures, filed them. But if it is Wednesday, Thursday or Friday, it was the decision of the President of the House, not us as opposition Members. I would also like to address Minister Schillerová. And it's a shame Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček isn't here anymore. You talk so much about the massive help. But let me ask you, Madam Secretary, do you have any feedback on how the aid is evaluated by entrepreneurs in practice, in the field, what are the data on the aid? Do you have any feedback? I'll ask you to step out later and respond. When I look at the data from January, feedback, hard data from last year, more than 100,000 entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic ended their business. Ended or interrupted. This is one clear, undisputable fact that is completely linked to the fact that there is a covid going on here and how the government's aid is going on here. Let's move on. Take a look at those numbers when it happened most, which were turning months last year in terms of quitting or interrupting business activity. It was September, and it was December. And that's not a coincidence. September, because apparently businessmen saw that there would be an end to dislodgement, the second wave is coming on. And many of them knew that after the first wave and the experience with government aid, they wouldn't be able to do it. Did you do any research through the trade agencies? Did you ask for reasons to end these entrepreneurs? I would expect the government to do that, that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will do it, or the Ministry of Finance will want to know why these people end up with feedback, so that they know, for example, whether it ends because of a particular lack of assistance, because they are already entering insolvency, because of the fact that the tax office, the county social security administration, and possibly others have taken some concrete steps towards execution and so on. We'll move on with the feedback. Which trades ended business or interrupted? Do the members of the government know? They are most often trades in trade, services, food, and also surprisingly businessmen in the livestock sector, entrepreneurs in the agricultural sector, because, as the gastro-sector closed down, there is a huge drop in prices during the sale of pigmeat, beef. And these entrepreneurs are having huge existential problems today. Even in agriculture! But any adequate meaningful help? No. Breeders walked around in the case of pork for seven eight months, in the case of beef for 24 months, taking care of it, putting their costs into it, their efforts - and they are in pure red numbers. Trouble as a door! And they have nowhere else to stay. What did the government say? Nothing! These businessmen are in the lurch. Have you ever asked those entrepreneurs how they are able to live for the 10,000 crowns that the government sends them in the second wave, and how are those who have applied for and received no help since October? Did you ask them about it? You're arguing here, and the Prime Minister, as a mockery, will tell those hundreds of thousands of people and their families that he's getting e-mails from people who tell him they have more than if they were doing business. I'm begging you, forward it. Send it over here to the MPs. I'm gonna be so curious to read the story of a particular person, so I can also verify that it's not a fake, that it wasn't written by Mr.Prchal and another one of this team, that he's a real businessman who's better off today than he was in a normal business year without government covideo measures. Fill it up! Otherwise, it's so unfair and disrespectful to those who haven't gotten anything or gotten so little that they have to put an end to the business, they have to let people go, and they're done with the business. That's a small list of feedback you're going to make in a few minutes when you go through the statistical data that I assume you, your people, the Ministry of Industry and Trade are working on, you're thinking about them, and you're wondering why those 100,000 people packed it up. What did we do wrong? Let's fix this. This is how I would expect a responsible government to work and think, even the last fate of a citizen of the Czech Republic. One single person is worth thinking about is a politician who is responsible if his engagement is serious and is not a puppet. I feel like you're not doing anything I listed here, thinking about it. [[11.10 hours]] I am very glad that yesterday the Senate took control and that, as part of the amendment to the Act on Compensation Bonus, some of the rules were modified there, among other things. that increases the compensation bonus to the 20,000 crowns, which is a logical thing. After the debates that took place here in the House, you said well, we'll admit 15,000 crowns a month to the tradesmen, 500 crowns a day, we won't want to take social and health care out of it, so I took it as some sort of basic, basal amount for the existence of these people. And now, since October last year, you've been driving 10,000 crowns clean. Please try nicely, Madam Secretary, Prime Minister absent, Mr. absent Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, try living for CZK 10,000 pure, paying all the fees you have to pay and having two children at home on average. Try how these people feel. Did you go to see the tradesmen? Did you ask them? We're sending you a 15,000 compensation bonus, and you're taking out social and health benefits - how are you? - I remember the non-covid times when you were driving businessmen, businessmen, taking pictures with them, patting your shoulders, how great it all is, watered by the sun. Are you talking to these people today? With their families? Husbands, wives, you ask them that? So I'm hoping that when the back of the Senate comes in here, that even under factual data that can't be spoken to, you can't bend them, this House will take its mind and say, "Let's support it." Because that's the minimum we can do for these people today. Moreover, in a situation where some of the entrepreneurs are given hope here on Monday through Minister Havlíček over the weekend, when he says: I will fight for the tutors and try to convince the government. The Prime Minister will perform Wednesday night and say: we will tighten the bolts. Can you explain that to these people? Those guys are really squeamish about this. How can this be done by the responsible government - on Monday one minister says this and on Wednesday comes the Prime Minister, who says the exact opposite, so in the meantime he will have a false influence on the captain of the Central Bohemia Region that she is responsible for the chaos in vaccination, and he does not know what his minister and the Ministry of Health is doing, which is actually indirectly run by the Prime Minister. That's really crazy. And the last thing I said was here this week too, I didn't get an answer. A number of parents in the tens of thousands who came on Monday and wanted to buy shoes, socks, clothes for their children. Please give nicely, since you've decided to go this way, a government order that sets out what children's clothes are. Put in the size, if 39 is still childish, 40 is adult, tie it up even for old age, put in the interpretation methodology so that people in those stores and we parents aren't completely stupid when we go there and we want to buy a 12-year-old baby socks and shoes, so they're gonna say, "we can't sell it to you," because your baby's already 40-year-old foot size at the age of 12. Does that seem normal to you? Those are all things that point, unfortunately, to the absurdity. And I'm about to close my act. Because those people who write to us - and no one wrote me one single e-mail that he wrote: I'm overcompensated, I'm doing well and I don't want anything. So if anyone else is texting you, send it to me or the Prime Minister, please. And one more thing I'm going to mention. You said that as a lawyer, you would not accept a low-quality legislative proposal with you or with the members of the government, so I assume that is true of your fellow Members from the MP's club. And I didn't hear your speech when there was an approved amendment to the Food Act that you would step out and say, as a lawyer, I'm clearly saying it can't be like this, don't vote for it. And it bothers me so much when the arguments are being abused here, when the government minister, who's behind the entire legislative union at the Ministry, will say, you from the opposition, you wrote it wrong, which is why we're not going to vote for it. By the way, you were talking about the law that's at first reading, waiting for the first reading, and the second reading can be corrected. I remember very vividly in the last three years, and my colleagues and from the government coalition benches will confirm it, the economic committee is probably the most beautiful phenomenon when representatives from the ministries come and beg Members: Give comprehensive amendments and amendments to complex amendments, because we did it wrong at the Ministry. The representatives of the various organizations from the resorts come and say, for pán Ján, save us, they wrote it wrong. And we're gonna take it up on that committee and say, okay, we're gonna do this thing, we're gonna fix it, we're gonna support it, we're gonna vote it out. And we're not having this kind of debate to say no because it's written wrong. We're talking about this thing. And if it's about that thing, the responsible minister would say, yes, you don't have it well written, but I'm gonna give you guys a seat, you're gonna fix it, you're gonna make it better, we're gonna write it right, 'cause we're gonna get these people out there, and we're gonna use it. Too bad the senator and former member of the TOP 09 Herbert Pavera are no longer here today. He would testify that for example. in the last parliamentary term, when he was an opposition MP and I was the minister, came up with a specific subject, I said: good, factually it makes absolutely logical. We have told our people: sit down with this man, the Member, and his assignment, and process his material contribution into a high-quality legislative proposal. - That's the way the Minister's job is supposed to look, a good minister's job, and not knock it down in this way that you didn't write it well. Yes, we don't have dozens of lawyers, we have a limited budget a month as Members of which we make these things up, and we're trying to do it as best we can because we're looking at the problem of the people we want to solve. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u27	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík will now appear, President Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, thank you for the floor. I would like to say that much has been said here, but there have also been many inaccuracies and also untruths. My side of the KDU-ČSL has been included in a block which, according to Vice-President of the House, is to be multicultural. I would like to turn against it, and I would like to say that the President of the SPD is wrong. We in KDU-ČSL are clearly aware of our roots, building on the values upon which our civilizations stand, and we have never been ashamed and ashamed of them. Perhaps a year ago, I was here rapporteur for information material from the Council of Europe, which dealt with civil education. And I proposed a resolution there to make it clear in the curriculum of our schools what our value system is based on. And besides Greek philosophy, I also introduced Christianity and Judaism to Roman law. I must say that this part of the resolution also failed because colleagues from the SPD did not support it, unlike KDU-ČSL. So I would like to say that we do not belong to any multicultural bloc, we are not multiculturalists and our perception of European integration is such that, for example, we are not multiculturalists. we reject Turkey's political membership of the European Union. And not only for security reasons and for reasons of, say, problematic enforcement of democracy and law, but also cultural differences that stem from religion. And we have shown this many times since the start of the debate on the accession of Muslim Turkey to the European Union, i.e. Since the year we joined the Union, 2004, we have rejected this precisely for these reasons. We have always claimed that, and unlike many, we did not have to change that view, because it is still valid because Europe is an area of values for us, and those values are absolutely clear and are not multicultural. They're clearly given. The fact that many national races and people of different religions live in Europe is true, but we are perfectly clear about what is supposed to be the basis and what must everyone submit to if their cultures are contrary to this foundation. We do not want to dictate to anyone, but we say: if the aspects of your culture are contrary to our aspects of culture, so you simply cannot apply them, go where you can apply them. It's not criminal, it's not racism or xenophobia, it's nothing like that, it's just a normal defense of the values our civilization stands upon. [[11.20 hours]] It is in this context that it is good to recall some of the facts of the recent past, namely that there was a so-called 2008 event. the year of intercultural dialogue, one of the main objectives of which was to promote multiculturalism. And the interesting thing is that one of the ambassadors, an active supporter and promoter of this event, was Mr Tomio Okamura. I will now quote from the official report, the press release of the Ministry of the Interior, which says about this year: Six organisations have received subsidies from European and budgetary resources in the Czech Republic, whose projects contribute to mutual knowledge of cultures. In addition to these, there will be a number of events for the following months aimed at promoting Europe's cultural diversity. In the European Union in recent years, most countries have clearly acquired a multicultural character, whether it is an increasing number of languages, religious beliefs, or people of various ethnic and cultural origins. All 27 Member States have joined the European Year of Intercultural Dialogue 2008. - I repeat, I'm talking about 2008. - As part of the activities carried out at national level, people in the European Union will be able to learn about the diverse cultural heritage and traditions of their neighbours and fellow citizens. Well, what were the actions, the actions, the events of the year of intercultural dialogue that he was promoting, let's just say, what Mr Okamura is criticizing today? So these actions were: The Color Planet organized by the Integration Consultant. The Archa Theatre in Prague came with the project No speech, no problem, theatrical performance with the participation of refugees and asylumants living in the Czech Republic. It was also a project of the Babylon Fest multicultural festival. Then it was the project Hlasohled, realized by the civic association Půlnebi, voice multicultural workshops. Then we have a seed bead, namely theatrical performance Identity: Our Islam, focused on the education of viewers in the area of Islamic culture and religion. Then another such event, which took place during this year, the ambassador of which was Mr Tomio Okamura, was research into multicultural education programmes in the Czech Republic, which was realized by Man in Need, and then it was an update and extension of the didactic guide for teachers, including the inclusion of methods of teaching intercultural dialogue in schools. So these are the actions that took place in the so-called the year of intercultural dialogue, the ambassador of which was Vice-President of the House and Chairman of the SPD Tomio Okamura. And of course there were many statements that he said in the media, among other things he said, and I quote: Tomio Okamura, who has Japanese and Korean ancestors, commented on intercultural dialogue as an ambassador that it is important for people who are culturally different and living in the Czech Republic to see their view as something enriching for this country. It is based on its personal and professional experience. - I really have nothing against it, I know people change their minds, but it would be good for us to be correct and tell the truth about our political competitors, not lie about them, and maybe they didn't try to hide their misconceptions from the past. And one more interesting thing about multiculturalism is that in 1998, Miloš Zeman, today's president of the Czech Republic, began to rule here, and I will read you what you will find in his 1998 government's programming statement. It's on page seven, if by any chance anyone doesn't believe and thinks I'm making it up, then find a program statement from the government of Miloš Zeman and find it on page seven. I quote: Today's membership of the Czech Republic in the Council of Europe and our future integration in the European Union will help Czech societies overcome some negative attitudes towards the otherwise-speaking, looking and living people suffering from each isolated community. The government will do its utmost to open up to Europe and the world as acceptable as possible and transform itself into a multicultural society. - I know the President wrote a book about how wrong I was in politics. As for this, KDU-ČSL was never wrong, we were clear about it, we didn't have to change our mind about it, and I don't blame the President. But what is also interesting is that today's MP, MEP for the SPD, Dr. Ivan David, was a minister in this government who claimed to transform Czech society into a multicultural society. So I would just like to say that, as far as I know, in the Czech Republic, the active top politicians who have ever promoted and promoted multiculturalism in the Czech Republic were President Zeman, President Tomio Okamura and MEP Ivan David. I would like us not to really tell lies about ourselves, just to be correct and to have this debate as it is for the Chamber of Deputies. I really don't blame anyone for the past, and I understand that someone is changing their minds, but please, let's tell the truth about our political competitors. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura, Minister Petříček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, for starters, just a simple procedural proposal for a 20-minute pause to be announced after the end of the priority rights block before the vote on the draft programme. I'm saying it here at the beginning, so I don't forget it, that is, after the end of those who have priority rights. Today is January 28, 2021. Do you recall what happened exactly a year ago in the Chamber of Deputies? I understand that many don't, so I'll remind you. A year ago and about two hours ago, our honored colleague, Mr. Docent Svoboda, spoke from this rhetorical site and proposed to the Chamber of Deputies a debate on the risks that the Chinese flu, coronavirus, could bring with it. A year ago, the former Minister of Health, I see him on the left in the benches, laughed at the professor, and the government majority, including the communists, because it is part of the government majority, rejected the debate. Today, after a year, we live ten months with the Chinese flu in the Czech Republic, next week on Friday it will be four months when the second emergency takes place and yesterday a month has passed since the announcement of the hard lockdown. And we often hear such sadness, above all, by government officials, that the opposition merely criticizes and criticizes and offers nothing. So today we have offered four bills to debate, and neither of them is new, neither is from this year, one is from 2018 and three are from last year, so here lies long months. That's the answer to the grief that the opposition is merely criticizing. And it is not just a compensation law that deals with how to compensate at least partially for those who fight for economic survival. We have also proposed, and we have not been able to get months and months on the agenda to repeat the successful law that we have passed with the government together, forgiveness of minimum social advances, health insurance for our businessmen. We are not capable, not because we do not want to, the government majority is not willing to be precise, it is not willing to allow a debate, for example, on our proposal for the remission of income tax to entrepreneurs in 2020. We still have time. [[11.30 hours]] I'm gonna take a little turn. I would ask the Minister to postpone the obligation to pay income tax at least until the end of the year as a minimalist helpful step. They don't have what many of them out of. You are not willing to debate another successful program that we have pushed through with the government, which I commend the government for not saying that I'm just criticizing, and that is Antivirus C. So, so that today's programme does not overwhelm all the good proposals that we have made with many opposition colleagues, so we have chosen four bills, and because the situation from last year is repeated and we know from the public appearances of the representatives of the government coalition that they do not want to allow debate again, just as you laughed at us a year ago and you did not want to debate the coronavirus, today you do not want to debate compensation, correspondence choices, changes in conditions in material distress and help our handicapped citizens and you are presenting many representative reasons. I want to appreciate those members of the government who are present and who are involved in the debate. That's how I picture a parliamentary debate. We don't have to agree with each other, but we have to exchange opinions, facts, ideas, defend values that are owned by one or which political party. But by not wanting to approve the program, you've actually narrowed down the number of performers. We have been doing this for months in half the format, and even in half the format, you are not willing to accept a debate that could involve those who are not equipped with a priority right. I consider it cowardice. We do not convince you to vote in favour of a specific bill or that you could not come up with any better solution, with a good amendment. You're simply rejecting the whole debate! And that's a bad attitude that won't pay off. To all of us. Very often we hear from the mouth of the government, I would say, even an understandable sentence: We are in the same boat, let's deal with it together. Well, we're trying, but the helmsman and captain of that ship is the government that has most of it. It's logical and natural. And now it's not about opponents, which, of course... well, if we could discuss specific bills together, but it's about the ones that are covered by those laws. [[Nesroz.]] If you don't allow a debate about the compensation bill today, you're throwing hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs and businessmen off that deck. If you don't allow a debate about the correspondence vote of the Čech living abroad, you're dropping tens of thousands of potential voters off that deck. Everyone doesn't use the right to vote, that's for sure, it's also in the Czech Republic. If you do not allow a debate on how to adjust the conditions of benefits in material distress, you are throwing tens of thousands of people overboard who have to endure the behavior of inadaptable persons, repeated. And if you don't allow a debate on how to help handicapped people so that they don't have to go through another bureaucratic at such a difficult time, then you're throwing these fellow citizens off that deck. [[Nesroz.]] Are we in the same boat, or aren't we in the same boat? For us, as ODS and I think that we say as KDU and TOP 09 colleagues: we want to be on the same boat, we want to bring solutions, we do not say that our solutions are the best, we consider them good, and we are ready to debate in the committees on good proposals that will be brought by colleagues, for example, from government parties. Any idea good at this time. We've really been living in an emergency for almost four months, and I don't count spring months and more than a month in a relatively hard lockdown. Now, allow me to make a step-by-step comment on three bills. I will, of course, devote the largest part to the question of compensation. I'm glad the Secretary of Finance is here. Last April, we were together on a discussion programme of Czech Television, and the Minister announced that government aid to entrepreneurs and citizens by the end of the year would amount to CZK 1.2 trillion. I'm in an immediate reaction, it's a live broadcast, calling these numbers fantasy-magorical. And last April, we could argue about who would be right. I've got the state budget results in front of me. I've got the Ministry of Finance's official documents. Not opposition tables. And even if I were extraordinarily generous and agreed that every line in that aid belongs there, which isn't true, I don't know how to relate to the covid to abolishing the property acquisition tax, I really don't know. We designed it about four years ago, and no one in the whole world ever knew about the covid back then, so it's not fair. But I say, let's be extraordinarily generous, let's not cut off, for example, the debt of hospitals that were indebted before the covide, etc., and then the amount would go down. However, even the optimistic government figures, I've counted everything there, they're making 283 billion of public budgets, and that's 216,5 billion of the state budget. These are not small numbers, but it is less than 25 percent of the promises and promised amounts. And here I see the government's biggest problem, and I think that's the key to why the public is losing confidence in the government's actions, losing its willingness today and every day to follow all the regulations. Nobody knows anything about it. A little example. We're in winter, winter season. Lifters, but also closing restaurants in this second wave. You remember many of the speeches of Minister Havlíček, who said, "Don't worry, businessmen, I'll suggest that we pay, it's the second time, one hundred percent of the rents you have to pay." Who would object to that? Nobody. What's the reality? Is it 100% there? It's not 100%! It's 50 percent. So that's half the promise. Once again, the promise, the expectation, the disappointment. I could talk, for example, about what's going on in those mountains. The government closed the lifts - some to tell each other, and actually prevented downhill skiing. See those pictures from the mountains? Are those people there? Are the government's measures logical? Has she contributed to increasing the safety of these people, to their health? Anyone who looks at it has to answer logically that they don't. Then we'll look to the neighbors in Austria where possible. They have strict rules, reduced capacity, distance, drapes. What will the Minister of Health say? That's not a bad solution, but, you know, we're Čech. The Rakušan are following them, and how would the Čech react? We're worse than Rakušan? How can the Minister of the Czech Government say that? Yesterday we had an episode of how it is recommended to stop the vaccination - that's what the Ministry of Health will say. The Health Department says it's not true, then the Prime Minister confirms it, and the government doesn't tell the truth again. There's a real problem, there's not enough vaccine. No one reasonable can accuse the Czech government of this. Of course, we don't do that, so we don't argue about something that nobody said. However, a dilettantly prepared registration and reservation system was launched. Who of you, members of the government, is willing today and daily to explain to those seniors who want to inoculate, who have a deadline that they were looking forward to receiving the second vaccine, will be able to see more often with their children and grandchildren that they will receive a dry text message: Your vaccination date is cancelled. To a simple question, if someone falls short of a deadline for a reason that didn't cause him to stand back at the end of the line, or if the whole queue moves forward, I don't know the answer. There's a dry announcement in the text that goes to our seniors: cancel and re-book. That means they're going to the end of the line. Those who did the peripetia with the reservation system! [[11.40 hours]] I know what I'm talking about. I'm a professional programmer, and it took me two and a half hours for this trivial act to master the information system for which a man is supposed to be responsible for a state honor. Those who had the hope that they had made it and were already looking forward to being vaccinated this week or next week, suddenly we're taking that hope away from them. And we're not even willing to tell the truth about what's going to happen in the next few weeks. And we're not able to do a simple operation like that - she's not exactly simple, but logical and fair: if someone has a deadline, he's still at the front of the line, and the whole line has to move forward. Otherwise, we fight and increase hostility, fight. And we elders remember the battle for sub-pultic goods under communists. Now, about the Treasury numbers. And let's praise the government. I have to say, some programs deserve it so I don't get blamed again for talking about the criticism. And it's logical that in this debate, you focus on what you think could be improved, improved, it's not just like you have some simple political points for criticizing the government. I'm sure the compensation bonus worked. I was actually lucky or unlucky to have discussed the original proposal with the Minister, which, fortunately, is no longer spoken of, which was completely wrong. And as Prime Minister Jurečka said, I didn't hear anyone mingling like that to those officials that he was completely wrong. But it turned out okay, 15,000 was like that, I'd say, a real bailout for the businessman. The financial administration did it, it wasn't easy, it paid off really quickly and promptly. It wasn't bureaucratically difficult. Yes, what happened was that the slim percentage or promile of the applicants was cheating. I would say that the government, but also the Minister's speech today, when she spoke of our bill, that the government is fascinated by the pidimno of those who don't follow the rules, and forgets the very majority of decent people who do everything, cheat nothing, steal nothing, only in those difficult times they need help. But the program worked. Now, of course, it's much worse, because we have to remember that in addition to the compensation bonus in the first wave, there was a second successful program, namely the forgiveness of minimum social and health insurance advances, which actually worked automatically and we can estimate that it was drawn by about half a million businessmen without having to ask for anything. Excellent thing, it takes government, but also the House and the Senate that approved it, to commend it. So it was really 15,000. This program is over, this forgiveness. As I was saying at the beginning, our bill proposals that would make it long lie here for months and months, and nothing happens. And 15,000 is 10,000. And that's the problem. Let's see how we stand up to the design of our colleagues in the upper chamber. Let me just remind you that we've already voted on this. I think President Jurečka would have confirmed that. He's already put the amendment here. He didn't pass the first time, so let's hope he passes the second time. So I commended the government for the second time. For the third time, I commend the government for Antivirus C: 13.5 billion saved money for small businesses up to 50 employees with minimal bureaucratic costs. In principle, it automatically deducted the social security paid by the employer for those who fulfilled the condition. And if the company fulfilled the basic conditions, 90 per cent of employment and 90 per cent of wages paid in March, if memory doesn't deceive me. I forgot to say the number when I commended the government, the compensation bonus was 20 billion. Praise. Antivirus C 13.5 billion, I'm sorry, 13.3 billion - commendation. Cancellation of minimum advances on social security 7.4 billion - commendation, and 6.9 billion cancellation of minimum advances on health insurance - commendation. So it's roughly 47, 48 billion really helpful help that went quickly and at small bureaucratic costs. But, of course, that's not enough. And against that, put on dozens of grant titles that our government obviously loves, and look how successful they are. Program COVID - Sport. I don't even want to remind the story of the President of the National Sports Agency. Do you remember those press releases where billions were flying? A hundred million. Czech Rise Up program 43 million. Country for the Future program, it's like a satirical title when you look at how the Czech government works, 66 million. The Covid Technology program, 28 million. Technological Agency Trend program, $3 million. ETA Technology Agency program, 23 million. The Minister of Culture has already left during my short performance, so let's see what happened to the programs in culture. COVID - Culture I and II 300 million. Do you really think that this is the amount that will help the whole wide area of culture? Three hundred million? The BUS 900 million program. Programme COVID - Rent 4.1 billion. Programme COVID - Spa. Do you remember the praise of the Minister of Regional Development? A hundred million. And from the headlines, I don't know how much it cost to promote, maybe more, I remember the bombastic press releases and the bombing news. And I could go on like this. In other words, these programmes do not work in principle, they are bureaucratically demanding, they only help selected groups, logically they forget a group. And if you add it up, the help isn't even financially significant. Against this, our proposal - simple, does not forget anyone. Yes, the Minister is certainly right, there will certainly be legislative shortcomings, legislative errors, we are ready to debate this. President Jurečka has already said that, I have no legal union available, no opposition party has them, so I admit that there are mistakes. It's about the principle. [[unintelligible]] Is it right for those who are not allowed to do business to pay 100 per cent of fixed costs, or not? That's the principle. And let's talk about it, and I'm ready for it when the restaurant is closed and it's just a window, if it's 50, 80 or 100. This is a legitimate debate between first and second readings. We're not saying it has to be 50 or 100. We've had some experience. We're already able to get specific data and we can edit it. And the second principle, which is the basis: those who are partially prevented from doing business, is 50 per cent of fixed costs. Yes, it could be 60 or 40, let's talk about it! And don't throw it in the trash like that! I would still understand if there was a better, more comprehensive, legislatively correct government proposal next door. Do we have a suggestion? We don't! But we're hearing a new program. Colleagues, colleagues, have announced this week, I think Minister Havlíček announced a program of support for the skiers and skiers. Have you read what support that is? With great fame. Don't worry, we understand, you can't run it, we can help you. The only aid is and the recommendation of the state to these people who actually have a seasonal nature throughout their business, and the only recommendation of the state is: Take a loan, take a loan and we will guarantee you 80 percent of the loan! Well, that's great help! You gotta be kidding me. What bank lends them when they have nothing and they can't do business? What kind of help is that? That is why our bill is much better because it is universal and applies to everyone. I am not going to beg you, I am asking you to allow this debate, to release the bill, and for us I promise that if you bring better amendments, we will be happy to support them. Maybe something needs to be changed fundamentally or not. But my previous speakers here have said, "How many times are we a comprehensive amendment?" [[unintelligible]] Antivirus! Remember Antivirus? Kurzarbeit. Fresh experience, we'll decide. Government bill, comprehensive amendment to a smaller coalition partner and a comprehensive amendment to a larger coalition partner. And we're supposed to whistle it in opposition. Members of a larger coalition partner, his MP, say: Support ours, it is better than the social democratic one. And the Social Democrats say, "No, no, no, don't support the Yes proposal of your colleagues, support ours, it's better." I'll surprise you. We don't judge it by whether it was filed by the Social Democrats, or if it was filed by the YES movement. We're trying to look at the specific text and pick the better one. Let us be surprised how we vote. [[11.50 hours]] That is why I ask you to allow this debate, together, as the members of the government like to say, to form on the same ship the bill so that it is functional and adopted quite quickly, so that it can really help before the businesses and businesses are closed. Because it's almost always an irreversible process. And it's not that easy to re-establish a business and re-establish a business. I hope you've heard enough arguments about why we think the universal means is better than those specific grant titles. We certainly don't give up on our good proposals to repeat what I commended the government for. Forgiveness of advances, or minimum advances on social, health, tax forgiveness to tradesmen for last year, repetition of Antivirus C. And this is how we're gonna keep going. We are aware that we are in a minority. That is why I offer debate and possible modification of parameters of individual bills. So much for compensation. Now I'm going back to the correspondence election. I'm one of those guys who signed the bill. Many colleagues and many colleagues described him. I'm not gonna repeat the arguments. Just try to think about how the electoral participation would be, for example, if there was an election room for citizens from the Czech regions in Brno and Ostrava and for citizens of the South Moravian, Moravian-Silesian region, there would be an election room in Prague. We're just modeling that you have a choice, you just have to go 300, 350 kilometers. I must appreciate the appearance of Minister Petříček. [[Unintelligible]] He supported it. I think that all the reservations he raised here about technology to secure, less bureaucracy is for discussion. But if we take this proposal off the table, we won't be able to make it. So it's gonna be nice, it's gonna look like somebody's got great ideas on how to do it better, easier, safer, but the result will be one big zero. Minister, please convince your colleagues from the club to support the draft programme, prepare those amendments with us. We'll be happy to improve it so that it's comfortable. But I don't think the main reason was political. Those who very often protest against the law and bear, to say the least, a proxy argument, but which is true. [[Unintelligible.]] They don't have voters there, or they're worried about foreign results. I'm not talking about traditional political parties, Minister of Foreign Affairs. But we can all read the results of how the ten thousand Čech voted in the previous elections and what were the voting preferences. Simplifies: opposition 70, government parties 30. Simply, rudely. But that's not important. The important thing is to give them a chance. Next time, it could be the other way around. So don't worry about the result. Do not be afraid of our citizens who work, study or temporarily live abroad. Convince them that you have a good offer for them. And maybe they will, and I know that many will appreciate it if you allow them to vote in a simpler way with us, because they can vote, they just have it too complicated. Let's get this straight. Make it possible with us, and I think many will appreciate it, and they will bond with those parties and those candidates of the party who have made it easier for them to vote. And the third thing I want to talk about is our bill, the draft amendment to the law on aid in material distress. We filed that in March 2018. Unlike the other prints, he's done his first reading. And in the course of the hearing, I want to say that here it turns out that there is a possible communication between the government and the opposition, and it is possible to find a match. We basically came up with a proposal, and it's simply called "three times and enough," that is, if someone commits the alleged offense three times in 12 months, they lose their social benefits. The aim was at least a slight improvement in these complex areas. And in that debate, we noted the concern that it was too strict, that it was too restrictive. And we found a solution together. That means one, and that's the most serious offense, and that's actually a misdemeanor, which means if someone doesn't get the children to attend compulsory school, they pay once and for all. [[unintelligible]] The other three times, that's it. This principle means, not that they will lose the benefit of the other offences, but that unpaid fines will be removed from the benefit, which these people who commit offenses repeatedly commit, do nothing, our self-government must, of course, deal with. They have agendas, unpaid and often unenforceable fines. We found a solution between the government and the opposition, and I want to appreciate it. Although the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was deaf and blind and did not want to help, thanks to the debate, and I thank all those who are members of the Social Committee, so the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did what we expect from them after the debate. It has engaged in the debate, helped with the legislative-technical solution of the ideas, and it is ready for us to release it from second to third reading. Of course, some amendments will certainly still be loaded. On these three cases, I wanted to show that it is not true that we are merely criticizing the government. The opposite is true that we come up with a good solution for our citizens and our entrepreneurs. At the same time, we say that this is not the only solution and that we are ready to debate these matters with the government majority. But there must be an interest in the debate from both sides. We can't get rid of these topics, even if you're gonna get rid of our agenda tonight. We will not leave you alone because we think it is good for our citizens and good for our entrepreneurs. And we're going to suggest it for as long as we actually discuss it. Take that as a fact. And at the same time, try to use that hand, don't be cowardly, come and discuss it with us. And I'm looking forward to seeing you bring a better solution than we did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u31	Thank you. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček will now appear. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u32	Mr President, thank you. I will take the liberty of briefly reacting only to some previous speakers. In my speech, I wanted to emphasise, first of all, that the government, by extension, did not sit with its hands and, on the contrary, we are actively addressing the question of the correspondence election and we have a clear idea of how it should be treated. I also offered that in this debate we are prepared to assist so that any proposal that the House will discuss is practically feasible, as far as possible... or directed towards that objective, and that is to facilitate access to elections for our citizens who live abroad in the long term. That's for me. I strongly support giving citizens of the Czech Republic who live abroad this opportunity to participate more easily in the basic democratic decision-making process, and that is the elections, and to do our utmost to make it possible for the elections to the Chamber of Deputies in the autumn of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura. Mrs. Vice Prime Minister Alena Schillerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to KDU-ČSL Mr Benešek, I cannot remember your first name now. It's okay. Because you don't have anything on me anymore, you're desperately trying to slander me in the 2008 quotation marks for being an ambassador of the Year of Multicultural Dialogue. It was that I was approached by a jury of girls who legally live or study in the Czech Republic. Beautiful girls. And to make you happy, I'll admit that I've been on the jury of another competition, a world miss. And I liked it. I understand that you, Mr. Benešík, have probably never been approached or participated in a jury of international Miss or World Miss, because you are simply not interested in you. Because why should you judge the world's Miss? I mean, nobody knows you in a broader context, they just didn't reach out to you. And the fact that, as a man, you may have a problem with that and that no one approached you is not interested in you. So I already have your desperate screams -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u35	I beg to address Members through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u36	You're right. I'm sorry. Through Mr President, there is no point in commenting on your desperate screams against me. And if I'm asked to be on the jury again for some world miss or international miss, I'd be happy to attend, of course. And I'm sure I won't meet you there as one of the judges, because why should anyone address you? I'd like to sum it up. The SPD movement has nothing against strangers traveling to us. After all, I'm in the tourism business. Our company is the largest importer of Japanese tourists to Central Europe and I am glad that thanks to this hundreds of Czech citizens have a job, that I can give private sector jobs to Czech citizens. You don't give a job in my opinion to anybody, if you don't tell me. You're just using public money. Thanks to our clients in our company, hundreds of people have jobs in castles, chateaus, guides, transportation companies, of course, now in crisis, it's been interrupted. They have the work of a restaurant, hundreds of employees in restaurants, because we import five-digit numbers of tourists to the Czech Republic each year. We pay taxes here, which means we pay in the budget of the Czech Republic. And they are also producers of traditional Czech glass, who are in a desperate situation today, who have turnovers thanks to our clients' purchases, and everyone will tell you that they are buying the most Chinese and Japanese tourists. So I spend my whole life promoting the Czech Republic abroad from private finance. I work with strangers. I work in an international environment. I've been running an international company since 1997. I'm not ashamed of it. It is true that there are a number of people that we have spent our entire lives paying out of our taxes and who have never employed anyone, they have never really built anything in the private sector or to that extent at international level. So this criticism, this desperate criticism, this desperate slander of people who have never given hundreds of people a job, of their own can only spit dirt, criticize and desperately maybe -- well, I don't know, I don't know your feelings. It's just completely crazy this level of Mr. Benešík's discussion. I'm gonna tell you about the SPD position so it doesn't get twisted. We have no objection when someone marries, marries, we have no objection when someone legally comes here to see the beautiful sights when they're studying here. We have nothing against the fact that people who have the potential to adapt to jobs that cannot be hired by Czech citizens are not available, so that we temporarily employ these people, and then, of course, when unemployment has increased and our people should not have jobs, of course, these residence permits need to be terminated and citizens of the Czech Republic have to be preferred. It's okay. We have nothing against it - it is also my planned trip to Afghanistan. You have been in government for many years, but none of those governments have tried to open export options for Czech companies. The Afghánec know my views on Islam very well. That's what we said at the very beginning, and they gave me the benefit of the doubt. Last Tuesday night, the Afghan Ambassador told me again that they would repeat it to me in Afghanistan, that they would agree with me, because they, too, are fighting the Taliban, fighting radicalism, they need support in this fight against radicalism, they need to stabilise the conditions so that there is a lower migration so that the Afghánec do not migrate to the Czech Republic, and these are the intersections. And especially Czech exporters were very interested in this trip and they themselves said that in 20 years no one could put together the way of the big Czech exporters to this country, where the state has huge money at the national level. This country is, of course, poor in terms of living standards, and there are major projects. This means that I have absolutely no problem working economically on advantageous matters for the Czech Republic with the whole world, and I have been doing this my whole life. All my life, I've been working with different foreign partners. Iaznovu saying to Azna that if I'm invited to some Miss, which is also a part of an international girl, I'd be happy to take part again, of course. It's a lovely evening, and I'll be happy to participate in the jury in some way. That's for this. But you're going somewhere until 2008, but I'd really come back, and that's gonna be a separate video, which I'm sure you'd like to watch over 100,000 people and more. We must go back to why KDU-ČSL and your members go to the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft Conventions. And it is important to remember before the elections that this meeting was attended, for example, by President KDU-ČSL Pavel Bělobrádek, Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, who referred to the compatriots as kind compatriots. By the way, the TOP 09 member Daniel Korte participated in this as well or the ex-minister of labour and social affairs for ČSSD Marksová Tominová. Well, the Sudeten German landsmanshaft, to tell the citizens and the public what you participate repeatedly, is an organization founded by Nazis, fascists and German chauvinists. In 1949, one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, the so-called Eichstätt Advent Declaration, was announced, where, among other things, these requirements appear - I quote: "Our inalienable requirement is the return of our homeland to the linguistic borders of 1937. It is about establishing a sustainable relationship between Germany and its West Slavic neighbours. The readiness of the Čech and Polák to return their homeland to the exiled Němec would also be a prerequisite. All these tasks can only be addressed within the framework of the federalist organisation of Europe." End of quote. And this declaration, where you are proactively driving, is one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft, signed by Becher, former adherent of the Kameradschaftsbund, member of the NSDAP, Walter Brand, member of the Henlein movement, Brehm, SS SS Sturmbannführer, holder of the NSDAP gold party badge, Hergl, SS Hauptsturmführer, functionary of the NSDAP, Hönig, member of the NSDAP, Nazi journalist. So this is what they signed, the document, which is one of the founding documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, where KDU-ČSL goes. I'm gonna do it again so we don't lose track because that list is gonna be very long. Furthermore, Götz, a former associate of the Nazi Secret Service, a member of the NSDAP, Lemberg, a Nazi, and in 1938 a member of the Sudeton German Freekorps. I don't speak German, so I apologize for the pronunciation. Turnwald, member of the NSDAP, co-worker of SD, Franzel, originally Social Democrat, under the occupation of police officer units involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylis, Zawadil, high functionary of the NSDAP and associate of the Nazi secret service, Schreiber, former Nazi, Preissler, former Nazi. Schütz, member of the SdP, Sudeten German partique, Jaksch, Social Democrat, Reitzner, Social Democrat, Sladek, clergyman, etc. [[12.10 hours]] So part of the "nice compatriots," as you say in the people's community, Mr. Benešík, Herman, Bělobrádek, is the Witikobund organization, and it is clearly staffed with the Sudeton German Landsmansaft. And I quote from the 2004 Czech Interior Ministry report. The Czech Interior Ministry from 2004 to see what events you're going to. I quote: "Attention is also deserved by the organization of the Sudeten German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmanshaft environment. The organization's programme is to atone for alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate lies about German crimes, including the so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought." End of quote. And at the events of this organization Sudeton German Landsmanshaft, part of which is the Witikobund organization, and it is written by the Czech administration of the Czech Ministry of the Interior from 2024, the folklore has repeatedly participated and supported it. Nationally... But let's do a little bit more of that history of Sudeten German Landsmanshaft to look at the KDU-ČSL activity. On January 25, 1950, Sudeton German landsmanshaft set up a meeting in Detmold, where the second basic statement of the Sudeton German landsmanshaft was accepted, which once again claimed legal claim to the homeland and to reclaim the homeland. Among the 17 signatories, it was once again crawling with former NSDAP officials: Lodgman, Tins, Staffen, Wollner, Leibl, Schmidt, Schneider, Diewock, Benatzky and others. In the opinion of our SPD movement, official representatives of our state should not go to such meetings of nice compatriots with the Nazi past. But you people go there regularly, Mr. Benešík. I'm not gonna drag this out anymore because there's an extraordinary meeting on a different subject. I was just reacting to those desperate screams of KDU-ČSL, which balance in preference below 5% in many surveys. So I see that Mr. Benešík has reported again that he will bark again, he will dig again. But you know, we in the SPD like a saying. It's an old Arabic proverb, I think. "The dogs bark and the caravan goes on."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u37	The Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová and Mr Ondřej Benešík will now appear, and at this moment the last one registered with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll allow myself a few very brief responses. I won't keep you long. I listened, and often I wasn't surprised. I certainly wouldn't dare accuse anyone here, one of the honourable Members, any legislative deficiency, my inner humility would not allow me to do that. And you all know that, both in this Chamber and in the Senate, I repeatedly propose - yesterday I proposed this to the senators, and here I am doing it, and it is happening - that any Treasury official will process a parliamentary legislative proposal to any of you, no matter what political party you are sitting on, and we will prepare it for you regardless of giving a negative opinion politically to it precisely to be handled well and flawlessly, and if it happens to pass through, so that it is in that executive practice - and I have a rich experience - that does not cause any problems. So I would never blame you for that. But this bill of compensation - in a moment's time I will be focusing on the material aspect, but I will comment very briefly, because I have been blamed for this by several presidents - he suffers from such fundamental constitutional and legal defects that simply cannot be healed, cannot be healed. And that's what I said here. It wasn't about me blaming you if there was to be a paragraph like this or something. I would never dare do that in my life. And I always offer you, and I repeat it again on behalf of a department that has a top-level legislative and legal union, whenever any assistance is available, regardless of politically not agreeing with this proposal. So just to put it to the proper level, please. In a number of laws - she is not here, President Pekarová - in a number of laws, there is a crisis law, a state guarantee law, which chapter pays for it. So it's not true that it's not in the law. And of course, whenever a law is being prepared, mostly a government law, I, as the finance secretary, have to count on it to be, when the expense party is being burdened or if it means a fall in income. So you can't make laws and not think about what they're going to pay for. I can't even do that in the house. You can't even afford at home, nobody, nobody who just runs any budget, because it's actually about the same money. I've heard a lot of strong words from Prime Minister Jurečka about some feces and stuff. I asked you to send me those stories at the last meeting here. I'm ready to deal with them all. Or I'll ask my colleagues in the Financial Administration to deal with them and inform me about how they turned out. Of course I wouldn't go into the files. So please, I haven't received any emails from you yet. So I want to know, too, without questioning your words, I also want to know that they're not flakes - I use your expression. Send me the cases. I'm gonna look at them and believe that I'm gonna look into them and see if there's a problem or there's no problem, and I'm gonna be happy to keep you posted. Then it stretches like a red thread, and it's said today, about the government's aid, about the amount of it. So I'm gonna go back to that, and I'm gonna explain this honestly. And before I do that, I'm going to say that basically our constant dispute here is kind of about some kind of government aid ideology. And we, when the spring wave came in spring, and there was, in effect, such a dimensional closure of the economy, something as a result of government measures - but don't forget one thing. Those government restrictions came for the pandemic, that's something you keep forgetting. So the pandemic came, logically government measures came. These are not typical Czech. Look all around - Austria, Germany. They're a lot tougher than ours. I don't want to criticize anyone if they're gonna do it one way or the other. We are responsible for this, and we will certainly bear the political responsibility especially in the elections. So it's about the ideology, the attitude. And we did, in those spring months, when the industry -- we didn't close it, it closed itself, the car, and most of the economy closed -- so we went to the flat measures. Compensatory bonus - thank you for commendation to President Stanjur. And I thank you for your cooperation. We cooperated with the representatives of the Tax Chamber, we worked partly with the opposition, I discussed the topics. And we've been discussing a whole bunch of other things. So thank you here, too, so I'm not just being critical. So, really, our approach in the spring was more superficial. However, the fall wave came. We didn't know how much force he was gonna hit, how long he was gonna hit. And she came. And the government restrictions that followed were part of the economy. Finally, you saw the cashier's performance of 2020. The cash flow for 2020 has clearly shown that part of the economy is actually affected. But much of the economy doesn't just work equally, even better. That's why the filling ended up better than we predicted. It was due to income. That more revenue has flowed by 111 billion. And that's why our approach was different in the fall. He was focused on the segments that are affected. Therefore, there was another compensatory bonus approach, therefore selective programmes, because we evaluated the area programmes at that time that they were not necessary. [[12.20 hours]] Help lasts a long time. It just takes a few months. Of course, we could not predict that at the very beginning, sometime in September, in October. Which one of you would predict that? In the end, you've honestly admitted that it's hard to predict. And we are now considering, of course, taking into account - today we will be discussing further developments in the government at two o'clock, especially from the point of view of health, and we are considering that we may be looking for some unifying element for those programs and generalizing if this should continue. But believe me, it is not quite easy to find just what will have a common denominator for those affected segments, because they are very different, even if some parameter is chosen that we have chosen, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček chose 400 crowns per employee, so it wasn't really for employees. For an employee, we have Antivirus, which has been quite commended here, at least some of its parts, from the opposition. This was chosen precisely as a criterion for making a criterion for providing fixed costs, because it is very difficult to determine. And I tried it out, he mentioned it here, Mr. Stanjura, when we first created a compensatory bonus when we came up with the first idea to examine the decline in sales. It was just impassable, complicated. I dropped it. After a huge wave of criticism, I admitted it and stepped away from it. It was something nobody's ever done here. No one has a patent on reason. We're looking, we're listening, we're debating. I am always, and I am very grateful for this, to the negotiating table, because it was created basically from day to day, those proposals arose overnight, always invited the Chamber of Tax Advisors, the Association of Trade and Tourism, the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises, the Chamber of Commerce and others, and I listened. And I'm grateful for that. And actually, I've been talking to you about a whole bunch of laws that we did here for the first time. Now, let's talk a little bit about the amount of 1.2 trillion you've been throwing around all the time. If you look at the help provided, and each first one with a cashier's delivery will be collected by the Ministry of Finance and issued by the resorts, then I have the last number by 31. 12. These are amounts, as has been said here, 283.4 billion, of which direct aid to entrepreneurs, households about 184.2, deferrals of advances and so on 35.2. The largest part of the planned aid was so-called supported loans, planned supported loans on the basis of state guarantees. And those state guarantees were approved by this Chamber of Deputies. I'm grateful for that. They were also supported by opposition Members, specifically by President Stanjura. I was a little sad that it was critical, because the ODS supported it, if I remember correctly. He even had an amendment. It's good. Thank you for that. It's not a criticism. And it's not quite enough. Of course, the capacity of these supported guarantees, these operating loans, and the guarantee can be up to 90 per cent for the smallest firms, for the medium-sized ones around 80 per cent. It's for small and medium-sized companies. There's a capacity of up to 500 billion. You know that this Chamber of Deputies approved, first it was for operating loans, and we approved the amendment to this law in the autumn, so that it would also be for investment credits. And only when I look, the numbers from the CMZRB - from 1. 3. 2020 to 31. 12. 2020 supported ČMZRB with this state guarantee of about 10 248 clients and the volume of guaranteed and directly granted loans was 52 billion. Overall, if you look at supported loans, it's 64.2, because we do it in cooperation with banks. And their time will come. There will come a time when it will really help companies to have some kind of backed-up loans, first operational, then investment. If I had to use the paraphrase, we'd bring the horses to the water, and now it's up to him to drink. Thank you and I believe that with just as constructive and plenty of ideas and incentives and support, especially support, you will be, when I come in a very short time with an amendment to the State Budget Act for 2021, precisely so that we can support the economy massively and support support support programmes for entrepreneurs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u39	Have a nice afternoon. And last ondOndřej Benešík to speak. I don't have another application yet. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Of course, I'm a little sorry that the debate slipped into a personal plane. Of course, I confess, and I am not ashamed of it, that I am not nearly as famous as Mr Tomio Okamura, and that is why no one came to me to become ambassador of the year of multiculturalism, or, if you will, the year of intercultural dialogue. As a person who never believed in multiculturalism, I did not have to consider such an offer, unlike Mr Tomio Okamura, who simply nodded to it because the report states that the umbrella organization of this event is the Institute of Art - Theatre Institute, and he called on several famous personalities to cooperate and appointed Mr Tomio Okamura, who became an ambassador of this great event. And as part of the event, the key actions that have been organized are listed. And that's where I listed the events or seminars, such as the Color Planet organized by the Integration Consultant, or theater performance of Our Islam, or the updating and extension of the Didactic Guide for Teachers, including the inclusion of methods of teaching intercultural dialogue in schools. So I don't know what it's all about. If Mr Okamura says that he was not an ambassador of this event and that these events took place in the course of this event, then he will have to deal with the Ministry of the Interior, which then issued an untrue press release. That's basically it. And unfortunately, in the list of events, and maybe it's the Home Office's fault again, but not mine, there's no miss competition, neither one nor the other. So if Miss was part of those events, I'm sorry about that, I didn't read it here. I've read all the other events I've already mentioned in the press release. The criticism shouldn't be directed at me. I actually quoted from publicly available sources. And if the Home Office issues a press release, I'm assuming there's true information in it. And as for the landmanshaft, it's not like we didn't see it coming. I'm going to make this very brief. Personally, I wasn't at any Sudeten Němec convention. However, there were several inaccuracies again. It is Sudeton German landsmanshaft, which consists of x organizations, which is why it is landmanshaft, which means it is not one entity, so it has just changed its statutes. He changed them in a way that he didn't claim the right to a homeland as it was in the charter. He also gave up property claims. And the descendants of the Sudeten people have repeatedly apologized and apologized and poured ashes on their heads for what some of their ancestors have done not only here in Bohemia and Moravia. And that's why we're talking to them because they're just aware of the crimes of Nazism committed by some of their ancestors. If they didn't, we wouldn't be having fun with them. But those direct participants are essentially the minimum that we could theoretically talk to, these are their descendants who are fully aware of this, and that is why we are having a dialogue with them. I mean, that's normal, isn't it? That's the role of politics. [[12.30 hours]] But these people are from different political parties. Landsmanshaft is not a political party, Landsmanshaft has a variety of members in all political parties. The fact that there's a radical wing that's been named here has really little weight, but it's very loud, and they're definitely not talking to KDU-ČSL. And with the amendment of the statutes, where, for example, the Sudeten Němec give up their rights to seized property, it took over 70 percent of the members, which means that the amendment of the statutes was also contested by the court and the leadership of the Sudeten German Landsmansaft won this. That means, it's not a question of a minority inside the descendants of the Němec, it's really a huge, decisive part. And we would never have talked to them if they hadn't apologized if they were demeaning Nazism and if they were somehow mitigating the crimes that some of their ancestors have committed here. We would never talk to them. But what's interesting, and it would be good to read the news from our embassies and representative offices in detail, is that we have a political party here called the Alternative for Germany, and it happens to be the partner sister party of the SPD, Tomio Okamur. And this party does not agree with Benešův's decrees as a political party, for example. its Bavarian part requires that bilingual inscriptions be introduced in the Czech borderlands. This is not done by any party, let alone by the KDU-ČSL partner party. This is requested by the SPD's Partner Party, which is called the Alternative for Germany. So read the so-called tics, the messages from the embassy, properly. [[TIC]] And in that European gang of yours, get your shit together. It is not really normal for a German political party to demand bilingual Czech-German or German-Czech inscriptions to be mandatory in our border area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u41	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I've been asked to relieve myself. May I have the floor of Vice-President Tomio Okamura, please? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to KDU-ČSL MP Ondřej Benešík, who spoke here in the name of KDU-ČSL. Yes, we think it is important to talk about Islam in Czech schools, because it is necessary to say that Islam is incompatible with freedom and democracy, and we think it is crucial to say that Islam is completely incompatible with our concept of freedom and democracy, and either Islam will be here, or there will be freedom and democracy, one or the other, there is nothing in between. So the fact that Islam should be spoken of in schools, and right, we think that it is of course necessary, on the contrary, this does not happen today in this sense. The second thing is that it is necessary to recall the views of KDU-ČSL on migrants. We all know how Mrs Šojdrová, KDU-ČSL, pushed here, pushed hard to accept illegal migrants to the Czech Republic from Syria. And we refuse. SPD says - zero tolerance for any illegal migration, notabene from Islamic countries. And the whole republic has seen it, we all know it. And it promotes the admission of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic from Syria. Third thing, AFD. I've said this before, but I know you're not in the habit of telling the truth or forgetting quickly or sitting on your ears through the President. I have already repeated here that the condition of the SPD - and we have enforced it in our European faction, whose members we were together with Mattee Salvini and the Italian Lega, together with the National Association of Marine Le Penová, my friends, and I openly claim it. I met Mattee when he still had about 5 percent in Italy, not like now that he's over 30 percent, it's already claimed by many people, or over 40 percent. So I proudly claim that my personal friend, we write our texts, is Matteo Salvini, the winner of the Italian elections to the European Parliament, and Marine Le Penová from the National Association of France. And also Geert Wilders, my friend, who I'm texting normally, we're calling each other, the most famous and unknown European fighter against Islam. Yes, we're friends, I'm proud of it. I know they're not your friends, yes, they are. And AFD. It was a condition of acceptance - so I hope you will no longer sit on your ears through the President, Mr Benešík, I said so here in the House on a microphone. When AFD and I discussed becoming a member of our faction, I pushed through, and Radim Fiala was there, it was a few negotiations with President Jörg Meuthen, a personal meeting so that the question of our closed faction was that the AFD would not go back to the issues of the past. They've discussed it and we've agreed to it as part of the faction. So we're insured. We took care of it, I can assure you. Excuse me? [[Question from the diaper off the microphone.]] In writing. Yes, we have it in writing. We took care of it because it was an important condition for us. So, on the other hand, I'm quite glad I can tell you again. And it was discussed in front of all the political parties that are members of our faction, it's a party from Belgium, they're the Austrian Freemen, there's a number of those parties. So we took care of it. And, of course, we actively prevent this from being disrupted in any way. But since you got off - and every time someone from KDU-ČSL gets off on a personal level, I'm always here to read again and again about this Sudeton German landsmanshaft. So come on up to the mic, and I'll be telling you all day, okay? And it's up to you. So what kind of meetings does KDU-ČSL go to? He goes to the meetings of the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which has Nazi roots. For example, they participated in this meeting. KDU-ČSL leaders Pavel Bělobrádek, Chairman, Minister of Culture Daniel Herman, who referred to the compatriots as in the quotes of nice compatriots. Yes, Mr Daniel Korte and others participated in the TOP 09 as well. Now, let's describe what this Sudeten German landsmanšaft is, which is regularly attended by KDU-ČSL officials to hear it again and again, over and over again, I'll repeat it here every day, it's up to you, what the frequency will be. Sudeton German landsmanshaft is an organization founded by Nazis, fascists and German chauvinists. In 1949 one of the basic and still valid documents of the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft was announced. The Eichstätt Advent Declaration, where I am. The following requirements appear - I quote: our inalienable requirement is the return of our homeland to the 1937 language borders. It is about establishing a sustainable relationship between Germany and its West Slavic neighbours. The readiness of the Čech and Polák to return their homeland to the exiled Němec would also be a prerequisite. - That's what they want to establish, a sustainable relationship. - All these tasks can only be addressed within the framework of the federalist organisation of Europe. - I can see why you are fighting for the European Union and why you are in favour of Brussels. This declaration, which is one of the basic documents of the Sudeton German Landsmansaft, is the organization where the senior representatives of the KDU-ČSL attended the meetings, so the declaration was signed by Becher, former adherent of Kameradschaftsbund, member of NSDAP, Walter Brand, member of the Henlein movement, Brehm, SS SS Sturmbannführer, bearer of the gold party badge NSDAP, Hönig, member of the NSDAP, Nazi journalist, Götz, former collaborator of the Nazi Secret Service, member of the NSDAP... And for these events and organizations that are associated with these people, you ride, Members and Ministers, President of the KDU-ČSL. But I'll keep going. It is also Lemberg, a Nazi, and in 1938 a member of the Sudeten German Freikorps, Turnwald, a member of the NSDAP, a collaborator of SD, Franzel, originally a Social Democrat, under the occupation of a police officer unit involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylis. It's terrible what events you're able to drive to, KDU-ČSL. That's awful. Horrible! [[12.40 hours]] Zawadil, a senior NSDAP official and associate of the Nazi Secret Service. Schreiber, former Nazi. Preissler, former Nazi. Schuetz, member of the SdP. Jaksch, Social Democrat. Reitzner, Social Democrat. Sladek, spiritual. And part of their, in quotation marks, nice compatriots, as you say in KDU-ČSL, is the Witikobund organization, which is clearly linked to the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft. I quote from the 2004 report by the Czech Ministry of Interior. I quote: Attention is also earned by the organization of the Sudeton German Nazis Witikobund, which spreads anti-Czech views in the Landsmanshaft environment. The organization's program is to atone for alleged war crimes committed by allies on the German nation and to further eliminate the lie about German crimes, including the so-called Holocaust culture as an expression of non-German thought. End of quote. Well, that's crazy what kind of events you guys go to, KDU-ČSL. On January 25, 1950, Sudeton German landsmanshaft set up a meeting in Detmold, where the second basic statement of the Sudeton German landsmanshaft was accepted, which once again claimed legal claim to the homeland and to reclaim the homeland. Among the 17 signatories, the former NSDAP officials were once again swarming. Lodgman, Tins, Staffen, Wollner, Leibl, Schmidt, Schneider, Diewock, Benatzky and others. And according to the SPD movement, official representatives of our state should not simply ride to such meetings in the quotes of nice countrymen, because they are in quotes of nice countrymen with a Nazi past. And you people go there regularly. And once again, I think it's one of the most understandable names, and it's that Franzel, he's a police officer who was a member of the unit involved in the executions of Czech patriots in Kobylisy during the occupation. And for such events, the actions of such an organization, the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft, which is associated with such people, KDU-ČSL members ride repeatedly. This is crazy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. President Jurečka will respond with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u44	Thank you. It is remarkable when President Tomio Okamura here comments on what friends he has. At the same time, it must also be added that these friends, for example, promote mandatory quotas or also want to promote that Czech employees and workers working abroad cannot work in these countries. This also needs to be recalled that when you say "A," you also note "B." Now I want to return this debate to the essentials of why this meeting has been convened. As I could see the appearance of Vice Prime Minister and Secretary of Finance Schillerová, I understand this, Madam Secretary, so that you perceive the difficult situation of those people that you are seriously considering increasing the compensation bonus, extending the conditions and parameters so that the aid is really meaningful, effective, and that you will therefore help us to adjust, to complete the compensation law so that we can perhaps complete it within a fortnight and perhaps call an extraordinary meeting here in the next three or four weeks, so that the law can continue after the first reading to the committees, so that we can simply move the debate forward. Because you said that this thing here, you're offering to cooperate, that you want the good result. If at least this was the conclusion of today's meeting, a meeting that might not be approved by the program, I would consider it a good promise to this government, not for us, for the opposition, but for those people who need help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u45	So I'll look around the O.R. to see if there's anyone else who wants to speak, who wants to speak in the debate... sorry, it's just priority rights to the agenda, to the proposed agenda. And I don't see anybody, so now we're going to set up the 81st meeting, whose proposal is on the invitation. Yes, I have a request for a break. The request for a break of 20 minutes before the vote was expressed by the ODS, so I will give a break, just to read that I recall that under Section 53 (7) of the Rules of Procedure Act, the House will decide only on the agenda set out in the request. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. And now I'm declaring a 20-minute break at the request of the ODS club, so I'll meet you here. And now I hear there's some kind of club deal that's gonna go on continuously? So I'll ask the O.R. if everyone's in agreement. So I'm declaring a break plus 20, which means it's 1:05 p.m., and we're moving on without a break. So we'll continue for 13.05 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-28-ps2017-081-01-000-000.u46	Have a good afternoon. The pause ended 20 minutes at the request of the ODS club before the vote. So I'll call my colleagues to the meeting room. I'm gonna unplug you without hearing a knock. Please log in with your voting cards. [[A moment of waiting.]] So we waited, because now the vote will really be very quick already, so I hope that everyone who wanted to participate is 82 of us, they're already here in the hall. So now we will vote on the entire proposal for the 81st session of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number two, 92 Members registered, for 30, against no one. The agenda has not been approved. And I remind you, we'll meet here... I hereby conclude the 81st meeting and remind you that we will meet here tomorrow, i.e. Friday 29th. 1st, 9 o'clock, when the 79th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue. Have a nice day.
