ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-008-008.u1	8. Government bill on the protection of notifiers /German press 1150/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-008-008.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, as promised by the Ministry of Justice, in accordance with the 2020 legislative work plan, which simultaneously fulfils the government's programming declarations and international commitments, this government bill on the protection of notifiers, which you will discuss, has been prepared. The protection of notifiers is a means of combating corruption and further infringement. The introduction of a comprehensive and functional legal framework for the protection of notifiers can achieve considerable savings in private and public funds and prevent various damage and threats to public health and other problems. However, despite repeated efforts to enforce the legislation in question, this protection is still missing in the Czech Republic. The purpose of this law is to provide protection to a wide range of persons working in the private and public sectors in the event of notification of an infringement which they have learned about in connection with the performance of their work. Typically, employees, civil servants, business partners, employers' partners, civil servants, interns and volunteers will be protected, persons who will help the notifier to notify the infringement, and others. According to the proposal, acts which have the characteristics of a criminal offence or offence or which infringe the legislation or regulations of the European Union governing areas whose protection is of increased social interest may be announced. At the same time, the working context must in any case be maintained. Part of the proposal is the obligation to create credible channels for reporting and to provide protection against sanctions. In practice, the protection of notifiers is intended to strengthen, in particular, the prohibition of retaliation measures, the modified modification of the institute of interim measures and the reverse burden of proof in disputes relating to retaliation measures. I think that this law is necessary, and it is very responsive and very transposition, in particular, of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who are declaring an infringement of EU law. As for the parliamentary proposal that has been presented here before me, I have reservations about it - and that is the fundamental reservation - that it does not, in essence does not respond, and this is not the transposition of the directive that I mentioned, that is, from 23 October 2019, it merely looks like one. Otherwise, with regard to this parliamentary proposal, of course, I refer mainly to the Government's position of August 2019, I suspect 2019, and there, on 18 points, were clearly highlighted by this parliamentary proposal's legislative shortcomings, and the Government gave a clear dissenting opinion. That's why I'm plotting for a government proposal that's sophisticated, complex, and it's a transposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-008-008.u3	I thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur, once again Mr Grospič, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-008-008.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been said here from the mouth of the Minister, the Government has tabled a proposal for a law on the protection of notifiers processing the relevant legislation of the European Union, Directive 2019/1937 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union of 23 October 2019, which is a fundamental difference just from the previous press, which I have also mentioned here, on the protection of persons reporting infringements of Union law, the directive brings a comprehensive and relatively detailed framework of legislation on the protection of notifiers of infringements of Union law. The Directive is to be transposed into the law of the Member States by 17 December 2021. The proposed bill aims to add to the Czech legal system missing elements of the protection of notifiers and transform the directive. The purpose of the protection is to provide the notifiers with a guarantee that if they notify the facts suggesting that someone has committed an infringement, they will not be sanctioned in any way. The aim of the proposed legislation of notifiers is then to enable private and public sector workers to report safely within the framework of mandatory internal mechanisms established, in the case of external mechanisms, and subsequently to ensure protection against possible retaliatory measures by employers and other entities, which I personally consider to be very important. The proposed measures are intended not only to protect potential notifiers of the infringement but also to prevent infringements in general. The introduction of the protection of notifiers into the Czech legal system should be to provide persons in employment and other similar relationships with the possibility of claiming their rights better and in relation to their notification of the infringement, interference by the employer or other person. This will help to strengthen the procedural position of the notifiers in the context of the legal proceedings, which is also extremely important. The draft law gives rise to minimal implications for the protection of privacy and personal data. The handling of personal data will be carried out in accordance with the privacy principles under applicable law, including adaptation law No. 110/2019 Coll., on the Processing of Personal Data, and the General Data Protection Regulation - GDPR. Third parties may not be provided with any information that could thwart or jeopardise the purpose of making a notification. The abovementioned directive therefore requires Member States to bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with the Directive by 17 December 2021, as I have said. This fact leaves virtually no room for a different regulation for the government, and therefore it is necessary not to give room for amendments, which undoubtedly by the so-called demo block - I will use the word - maybe they could come. The proposed bill is, in essence, the directive's regulation, as it follows from the table of comparisons, and it is not - and it is not right - to go further into it or to reproach it. Since the proposal for interpretation of the abovementioned directive is in our legal order and this interpretation is an obligation for the Member States, I recommend that the rapporteur support the proposal in the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-008-008.u5	Thank you. I'm interrupting this point and opening point number
