ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u1	515. Appeals against the decision of the mandate and immune committee pursuant to § 16 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies Mr Lubomír Volný's appeal was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies within the prescribed period. [[Noise in the hall.]] On this point, you have been handed over on the bench the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 170 of 16 February 2021, as well as the appeal of Mr Lubomír Volný. I now ask that Mr Lubomír state his appeal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure I won't be shouting at a bunch of apes who aren't able to calm down even when their coworker...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u3	Mr. Ambassador... [[The MPs are beating the benches.]] ... avoid such insulting statements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u4	It is your duty, Mr President, to ensure my peace. So I'm asking my colleagues who don't care to go out, and if they want to stay here, they'll be kind enough to shut up and listen. And I ask...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u5	And yet, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I call on you to avoid such insulting statements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u6	I ask you, Mr President, to provide me with a peaceful environment for the performance of my duties as Member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u7	Yes, Mr. Ambassador, that's your right. I ask my colleagues to keep their voices down and allow you to step down and make your appeal. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u8	I can't go on because there's still no peace here. There are two gentlemen having fun in front of me, two gentlemen, in the hall is, I'd say, 80 to 90 decibels. I will read precise legal evidence, and in order for Members to be responsible for assessing their quality, I need it to be quiet here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member has the right to bring his appeal. Please, let's create room for this so he can't argue that we haven't heard his appeal. Thank you. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u10	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. Your help, which you are trying to provide me with a decent environment, passes here, Mr. Okamura and Mr. Fiala are yelling all the time, obviously not interested in you, not even looking at you. Well, they don't care, so I would ask you, Mr President, to lead Mr Okamura and Mr Fiala here to order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u11	I, at my discretion, have asked the Members to keep their voice down, they have done so in my opinion, you have the room to perform, it is up to you to do with your time and the opportunity to do so. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u12	Very well. I didn't come here to defend myself. I'm here to explain to you that your colleagues from the mandate and immunity committee have repeatedly broken the law, they've been brought to the attention of my attorney, who's had a pretty good time with two former justice ministers, whose argument hasn't been accepted, so let's recapitulate a little bit... Does this still seem like a dignified environment to you, Mr President? [[The Free Member has been silent.]] On Thursday, I do not know exactly when, that day I do not remember, there was an incident in which I was attacked by fellow Members. And since these were fellow Members who had a majority here in the House, and because of their participation in large MPs or government clubs, politically motivated disciplinary proceedings of the mandate and immune committee were underway, which wanted to decide on Tuesday of the following week without informing me of anything, the presence of a lawyer and with a decision given in advance, the committee which most members of the committee commented before the meeting of this committee. Since then, the mandate and immune committee has had to postpone this decision, because I insisted on the presence of my attorney, whom they did not want to allow me. Followed by further negotiations, where my fundamental human rights were once again violated, and where members of the mandate and the immune committee made one legal error after another. Thanks to their aggressive desire to punish Lubomír Volný, there have been many situations that are documented in this appeal. This appeal is precisely handled, and if the Chamber of Deputies decides in an illegal way, then be absolutely sure that, just as we signed up with Marian Bojek in the history of the Chamber of Deputies by bringing us out, by leaving, by wanting to change... well, I see that some here have drapes under their noses so that they can breathe... so that you want to change the Rules of Procedure for us, Lex volný, Lex Bojko, in order to grant 100% fines to disobedient Members. I am so looking forward to your approval and one day the government coalition will give the opposition members 100% fines. This is gonna be amazing. I'm gonna have a lot of fun. [[18.20 hours]] So led by the same hatred and primitive aggression they wanted to decide again, again thanks to my lawyer's brilliant argument they could not decide and that decision was postponed again. Well, in the finals, the mandate and immune committee, of course, decided on us without us. They did not send us a proper and timely notification of any negotiations, they did not allow my lawyer to take part in this meeting, and they simply decided on us without us. And now we're gonna talk all about it in legal Czech, so you know what you're getting yourself into when you maybe break the law in your vote: "Dear Member, honourable Members" - as you can see, even though my lawyer knows who she is dealing with, she is polite to you - on the day of 18. 2. 2021 was delivered to me by the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 170 of the 36th meeting of 16. 2. 2021, by which MIV decided one of the two acts for which it is leading against my client, Mr Mgr Lubomír Volný, disciplinary action. [[hereinafter referred to as MIV]] The second act for which disciplinary proceedings have been initiated against my client has not yet been decided. The action decided by the MIV was defined in the decision in question by Mr Mgr Lubomír Volný with his meeting on Thursday 21. 1. 2021, at the 80th session of the Chamber of Deputies, attempted to take violently the proceedings of the meeting, assaulting Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, further rudely pushed Mr Jan Chvojka away and then struck Mr Michal Ratiborský, thereby committing an undignified and aggressive act which is in direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. For this act, MIV was appointed by MEPs Mgr Lubomír Volný fine of one month's salary. The Disciplinary Procedure was to be conducted pursuant to § 13 para. 1 and 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Against that decision on behalf of Mgr I appeal to Lubomír Volný for the apparent lawlessness of the entire disciplinary process, in violation of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the fundamental rights and freedoms of Mgr Lubomír Volný, who I believe was led by the extreme desire of members of the MIV, and not only these, as I will prove further, at all costs, even at the cost of knowingly breaking the law, demonstrate the determination of Mgr in front of the entire nation. To punish Lubomír Volný, but not only to punish him, but to punish him as quickly as possible, with the highest possible degree of exclusion of my client's rights to defend himself properly with pre-formed and publicly expressed views, irrefutable any arguments. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies does not have much to talk about, since there is, as a fundamental condition, a lack of any decision envisaged by law. Therefore, I will define only two fundamental arguments for my proposal below. First, the decision: If the resolution in question could be called MIV at all, I am accusing the nullity, which is an elementary fundamental flaw in the contested resolution, which is a decision consisting of a total lack of legal basis for the exercise of the MIV's powers to introduce and conduct disciplinary proceedings at all.' I assume you all understand. "Secondly, I object to a violation of my client's right to a fair hearing of his matter under Art. Whereas: 1 communication of the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs No. 209/1992 Coll., on the Convention on the Protection of Fundamental Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Protocols to this Convention. [[hereinafter referred to as the Convention]] To the nullity of the decision: Nulita generally occurs as a result of certain defects that cause the legal act and priori cannot be talked about at all. The zeroity cannot be healed by any means, it cannot be viewed from the point of view of whether or not it is correct, it cannot be reviewed because what is made as a decision is not a decision. The nullity in this matter occurred due to a lack of legal basis for the exercise of jurisdiction. It's just that MIV was making decisions about things that didn't belong to his gesture. Since I am not speaking primarily to lawyers today, I will explain this in the following example. For example, a zero act would be a decision by which a civil servant of the building office would decide to divorce a marriage. Otherwise, if everything goes according to procedural standards, divorce can only be decided by courts. Our virtual clerk simply can't divorce anyone validly, and neither can MIV discuss the act that quasi decided. According to our legal order, Art. In accordance with Article 3 (4) of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, a basic human rights principle is incorporated, according to which every citizen can do what is not prohibited by law, and no one must be forced to do what the law does not impose. This is the opposite for public authorities, including MIV. They can only do what the law entrusts them to. Members shall be a special and in some way privileged group of citizens whose criminal liability is contrary to the general arrangements or to the general arrangements for certain derogations. [[18.30 hours]] I would like to draw attention to the need to pay particular attention to the understanding of the concept of speech, as I further highlight. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic of the Member cannot be affected by a vote in the Chamber of Deputies or its institutions. It is an absolute indemnity - the irresponsibleness of the Member. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic for speeches made in the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate or in their institutions cannot be prosecuted by a Member or a Senator. The Member or Senator shall be subject only to the disciplinary authority of the Chamber of which he is a member. It is the indemnity of a Member for acts otherwise criminal, which are expressions. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 The Constitution of the Czech Republic for infractions by a Member or Senator shall be subject only to the disciplinary powers of the Chamber of which he is a member, unless the law provides otherwise. This applies only to offences that are not an expression. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 The Constitution of the Czech Republic of the Member and of the Senator cannot be prosecuted without the consent of the Chamber of which he was a member. If the Chamber refuses consent, prosecution shall be excluded for the duration of the mandate. It concerns only crimes that are not a manifestation, because for crimes committed by expression, Members have an indemnity. In this case, MIV does not have the competence to conduct disciplinary proceedings on such offences. If the Chamber of Deputies agrees to prosecute a Member, classical criminal proceedings shall be conducted by law enforcement authorities. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, disciplinary proceedings will be brought against a Member who, with his speech made in the House or in its institutions, will allow negotiations for which he could otherwise be prosecuted. It concerns only and only offences that are a manifestation, not other crimes or other than criminal offences, such as offences. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the disciplinary procedure may be instituted against a Member who, by means of a speech made in the House or in its institutions, offends a Member, a Senator, a Constitutional Judge or any other person authorised to attend a meeting of the House and its institutions by law. This applies only to those speeches made by a Member who are not a criminal offence, but at the same time, these speeches are acts which may also be an offence in which the beneficiary feels offended. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the disciplinary procedure shall also be introduced against a Member who commits an offence and asks the competent authority to deal with an offence in disciplinary proceedings. This applies only to offences that are not an expression. According to Article 13 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the MIV shall initiate the disciplinary action referred to in paragraph 1 on a proposal from the President of the House or on his own initiative, the disciplinary action referred to in paragraph 2 on a proposal from the offended and the offence referred to in paragraph 3 on the basis of referral by the competent authority under a specific legislation. At this point, it should be noted that indemnity is a specific form of protection for a Member, not an extension of another legislative option. In summary, MIV blames my client for the physical attack against Members Tomáš Hanzelka, Jan Chvojka and Michal Ratiborský, as stated in the illegal act MIV explicitly: he attacked, rudely pushed away, he struck. [[That's right, Hanzel.]] In order for a particular hearing to be subject to review in the disciplinary proceedings of the MIV, this may not be any hearing, but a hearing which is also an expression made by a disciplined person acting in the Chamber of Deputies or its institutions, or an offence, if the Member himself requests to be heard before the MIV. However, there is also a requirement for the eligibility of the complaint for the introduction of disciplinary proceedings. The fact that MIV accepted the incompetent initiative of the President of the Chamber of Deputies and Members of the Mgr Radek Vondráček and on the basis of it introduced disciplinary proceedings against my client for the above mentioned negotiations, which are not even a manifestation, is an arbitrary and illegal procedure which is in direct conflict with § 13 para. 1 to 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the Chamber of Deputies is only entitled to initiate disciplinary proceedings in the event of a Member's speech who could be qualified as an act of a criminal offence. Another flaw in MIV's would-be decision is the flaw in the absence of reference to a specific legal standard establishing my client's delicate liability. I'm sure we can agree that the court condemning the murderer for the crime of murder does not refer the convicted man and his attorney to the entire criminal code, but it will define the violation of a specific legal standard by reference to the relevant paragraph and paragraph. Unfortunately, under the MIV procedure, I have been forced illegally to conceive of the circumstances establishing the disciplinary liability of my client, thereby violating the generally applicable legal principle nemo iudex in causea sua - no judge in his own case. In order to establish legality, since I do not argue in a factual way, please do not confuse the legality of the justice which I now invoke, but I must pass because I appeal to legal laymen. For many, this is the first assessment of the delinquent responsibility of the second citizen. I would therefore assume that, in the act defined in the appeal under appeal, MIV seems to see a breach of the rule of law contained in Section 13 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, disciplinary proceedings shall be brought against a Member who, with his speech made in the House or in its institutions, shall allow a hearing for which he may otherwise be prosecuted. Since anyone can only be prosecuted for committing a crime, and in this case for a crime committed by a Member, I ask what kind of indemnity-backed offence my client should have committed and what kind of expression in his definition. I can no longer answer this, because in a disciplined crime I really do not see any crime, nor has MIV been convicted of any crime - neither a crime committed by speech nor a crime that could be committed by another act different from that of speech. If this is not a speech, the competence of the MIV is not given. In the absence of a criminal offence, the competence of the MIV is not given under § 13 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and of any other form of competence of the MIV is neither established nor claimed in the case. If a qualified complaint is not filed, disciplinary proceedings against Members may not be instituted even if the competence of the MIV is given to its conduct. Within the meaning of the resolution of the Constitutional Court I, the Constitutional Court 3018/14 may be regarded as expressions of information or expression of opinion by word, letter, picture or other means. Communication of information on expression of opinion in other ways includes expressive speeches such as gestures, written submissions, various designs, embroidery or other symbol on the jacket's flap, flag hanging and the like. On the other hand, according to the Constitutional Court, a speech is not a physical attack. In addition, the Constitutional Court stated in that finding: 2 The Constitution, on the contrary, is not, for example, a physical attack or shooting an opponent. Even if a subjective criterion is met in these cases, the objective criterion will not be met, since these negotiations are not perceived primarily by an ordinary observer as a communication of information or an expression of opinion. Similarly, Pavlíček, Constitution and Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, comment I, part two, edition of Prague, Linde 1998, page 151: For example, physical attacks are explicitly excluded from the definition of speech. [[18.40 hours]] The first term includes cases of the failure of a Member or a Senator to vote, which must also be understood by the contrario for not voting and any speeches made in the relevant Chamber of Parliament or in its institution, establishing the otherwise factual nature of the offence. This is an example of procedural, see diction cannot be affected and cannot be prosecuted, but with direct consequences in the plane of material criminal law. On the other hand, immunity in a narrower sense applies to the cases referred to in Article 27 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The provisions of Article 27 (4) of the Constitution shall apply to the conduct of criminal offences in respect of which Article 27 (4) of the Constitution applies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication In the case of decisions pursuant to § 10 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii)) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v) (v))) (v)))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v))) (v))))))))))))) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) However, Article 27 (2) of the Criminal Code must be interpreted to a reasonable extent, i.e. a statement under Article 27 (2) of the Criminal Code. It is not merely an insult from the rhetoric of the Chamber of Deputies or the Senate, but it must be interpreted more widely, that is to say, any act of will in a legal or criminal sense capable of fulfilling the facts of the offence. Knowledge - cf. . Kratochvíl: Constitutional demise, indemnity, immunity: How to handle them in criminal proceedings? Legal perspectives 19/2013, page 655 and the following pages. This does not mean, however, that acts could be regarded as speeches under the quoted article of the Constitution indicating that the exercise of the mandate is clearly not a matter of execution, such as such acts committed on Parliament's floor, which would be directed towards dignity, property, health and the life of others and so on. Import that in the cases of these activities it is also a manifestation under Article 27 (2) of the basic Regulation. 2 In the opinion of the Supreme Court, the Constitution only on the grounds that it has been made a Member or a Senator would, in the view of the Supreme Court, be an inadmissiblely simplified, ad absurdum carried out by a structure clearly deforming the logical interpretation of the provisions of Article 27 (2) of the Treaty. 2 of the Constitution. The penalty for such persons would, of course, be possible after the waiver of immunity under scheme 27 (1). 4 Constitution. It is my belief that MIV cannot do without another, even without the qualified initiative required by Section 13 (1). 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, pursuant to § 13 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to introduce disciplinary proceedings against Members for which this cannot, moreover, be prosecuted. Disciplinary proceedings against my client cannot be introduced even if, by the attack, we call it this way, any of the supposedly assaulted Members felt offended, because none of them gave the initiative to initiate disciplinary proceedings, and no one else, even the President of the Chamber of Deputies, could be offended for him in substitution, and even if he felt offended, such an initiative lacks a factual reason to give any other than a negative decision - Section 13 (1). This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. It is certainly not enough for a speech for which a Member could otherwise be affected for the commission of an offence. In support of my opinion, I am now calling on the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic, which explicitly states in the decision the registration mark 25CDO2386/2019: Article 27 (2) of the Act. In accordance with the subsequent sentence, Members are subject only to the disciplinary powers of the relevant Chamber, whereas in paragraph 2 they are expressly only to exclude criminal penalties, even though they are subject to the disciplinary powers of the Chamber concerned, while in paragraph 2 they are not subject to any of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. 1 is referred to as the impossibility of sanctions in general, referred to in paragraph 1. 2 only on criminal prosecution. Therefore, we can conclude that the Constitution at this point guarantees only criminal protection and not protection of others. This is indicated in the second paragraph of Article 2 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the European Parliament and of the Council The same opinion follows: V. Pavlíček: Constitution and Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, comment I, Volume 2, edition of Prague - Linde 1998, page 151, where it is stated - to obtain in every good bookstore - that immunity according to Article 27 para. The term "criminal prosecution" shall apply only to criminal liability. The absurdity of the incompetence of the mandate and immune committee to conduct disciplinary proceedings against my client implies, if I overdo my argument and define the hypothetical case of another disciplinary offense, by analogy. In case Mgr Lubomír Volný pulled out a similar situation where he was illegally prevented from continuing his speech, a knife and stabbed Mr Tomáš Hanzel in the heart, which would also be subject to indemnity, i.e. absolute insubordination for a speech in the Chamber of Deputies? Would a mandate and an immune committee also fine him $90,000 and the company would be dealt with? Indemnity would thus be a factual obstacle to his criminal prosecution for murder, because for speeches in the Chamber of Deputies, the criminal prosecution of a Member is forever excluded. In this example, you see the senselessness of this pseudodisciplinary process throughout its nakedness, and it is up to each of you to suppress the desire to punish and reflect on your personal responsibility and whether it is not greater evil to achieve subjective justice by an illegal procedure, whether there is a comparable evil than some slacker disrupting the citizens' faith in democracy, in which there is a zero poena sine lege - no punishment without law. I am arguing my legal opinion against you in detail, none of you will be able to make excuses for the fact that he is a doctor, a farmer, a businessman, and not a lawyer, if he votes against my client's proposal, provided, of course, that my legal opinion is not qualified to refute. After all, the authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic, as I have seen in the media, have assessed my client's actions as an offence and reportedly moved the matter to a decision of the administrative authority. Could he do so if this were a matter of speaking to a Member? Certainly not, because the parliamentary indemnity would not allow them to do so. The cops and apparently the supervising prosecutor are clear about my client's actions; they see an offence that MIV could only decide if Mr Mgr asked for it. Lubomír Volný, to whom the only law gives this right of choice. Try to be objective, too. I know it's gonna be hard in this case. To sum up the above, MIV has unlawfully acquired a competence which no law entrusts to it, and that is the competence to decide on the conduct of my client, which is not a manifestation of any criminal offence. His decision is therefore as important as the decision of the virtual civil servant of the building office, who decided to divorce the marriage - no, it is a zero decision. If such a decision were made in the blindness of my client's desire for a demonstrational punishment, it would be an unconstitutional intervention in his right to own property, as guaranteed by Article 11 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, against which we would bring a constitutional action before the Constitutional Court to violate my client's right to a fair trial. Although I consider this part of my argument to be unnecessary, I cannot ignore the flagrant and, in my opinion, completely intentional violation of my client's guaranteed fundamental human rights by the mandate and immune committee and the organisational committee of the Chamber of Deputies, I shall at least briefly define and justify: 1. Violation of the right of any accused of a criminal offence to be informed in detail of the nature and cause of the charge against him. 2. Violation of everyone's right to be represented by a lawyer, and in particular to have reasonable time to prepare the defense. 3. Violation of the right to exclude persons who are clearly biased from delinquent decision-making. 4. Violation of everyone's right so that the circumstances of the action for which the proceedings are conducted are not unlawfully modified during the proceedings, the right to preserve the identity of the action. [[18.50 hours]] Ad 1 - absence of defining of the deed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following (a) the Convention has a minimum right to be informed in detail of the nature and the reason for the accusation against it without delay and in a language which it understands. Although the law referred to above may appear limited to the criminal process, I believe it guarantees protection in all democratic legal decision-making processes. For more information see Kmec, European Convention on Human Rights, commentary Prague, C. H. Beck, 2012, Great Comments. ISBN 978-80-7400-365-3, page 574. The actual act for which disciplinary proceedings have been instituted against my client was not defined by any other way than by unspeakable references to Mr Mgr's proposals until the contested resolution was given. Radek Vondráček and Mgr Marek Výborný and the impetus of the mandate and immunity committee. What's in the last two impulses, I have no idea. My client and I, as his attorney, specifically asked for the definition of the act for which the disciplinary proceedings were introduced. 1. 2021, only Mr Mgr's complaint was made available. Radek Vondráček of 26. 1. 2021 PS2021/001489. From this fact and the fact that the MIV specifically requested the special power of attorney which my client granted me to represent for the works described in this complaint, it has actually enabled me to represent it in the discussion of the acts described above before the mandate and immune committee, which would certainly not allow me to participate in acts which do not cover me with the full power granted, I have an unlawful compulsion to conceive the content of the acts as I have defined above. This defect practically precludes in disciplinary proceedings initiated by the MIV Resolution No. 162 of the 36th meeting of 26 January 2021, any argumentative defense of my client and it has actually prevented him from defending himself without, on the other hand, concocting the elementary assumptions of his disciplinary liability and, therefore, for my client to actually judge himself. The constitutionally protected right of everyone who is prosecuted by a delicate procedure, which is fully reflected in the principle of nemo iudex in casa sua - no judge in his own case, is the right of a person against whom a delicate procedure is brought, not to do anything that could create the conditions and circumstances on the basis of which his criminal liability could be imported. The fact that my client did not know, until the time of the order under appeal, the facts which MIV relied on to fulfil his delicate liability was, by this absence, forced to defend himself effectively illegally for acts whose facts must be imagined, and not even such legal defence was in fact allowed to do so, which, in my view, was unlawfully disadvantaged from political reasons against, for example, any trespasser who exceeded the speed of four kilometers per hour in the municipality. I don't touch (?) that disciplinary proceedings break certain rights of my client - the public hearing, the right to judicial review of the decision. But that's not the case, because it's not a decision. However, I believe that the minimum laws guaranteed by human rights cannot be denied to him only because he is a Member. Unlike some members of the MIV, I believe that you, too, as Members, have certain minimum basic human rights. For example, the former Minister of Justice doesn't think so. I conclude that the disciplinary proceedings initiated against my client for an undefined act or action are the proceedings of an illegal infringement of Art. Whereas: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Convention. Since disciplinary proceedings against my client were not, among other things, even more serious errors as a result of the failure to define his subject until now or properly initiated, it is absolutely impossible for it to take place and be terminated. Ad 2 - right of defence. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following (b) the Convention has the following minimum rights: to have reasonable time and opportunities to prepare its defence. As a result of the fact that my client had not been explained the circumstances of his error and the duly defined act on which the proceedings were conducted, he was forced illegally to conceive of the conditions of his disciplinary liability - Art. Whereas: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) The Convention and, in a fundamental way, its right of defence - Art. Whereas: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Convention. Neither of these rights is affected in any way by the nature of disciplinary proceedings under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, I believe that preventing my client from exercising his rights of defence was an intentional illegal intention of the mandate and immunity committee. How else can I interpret the fact that I and my client have been informed repeatedly about the negotiations only a day in advance, albeit at least the acts that were unlawfully held on 16. 2. 2021, has it been ordered five days in advance? What was the aim of this discrimination against my client rather than the expectation that we would not be able to prepare for the negotiations, or will it not be possible in our capacities to arrange in just a few hours to take time off to participate in the negotiations? How would any of you like it if, in your defense, the court gave you an excessively short period of time to rule out a priori opportunity to prepare for the hearing? Let's think about how many of you understood the difference between acting as a general term and acting as a form of expression as a special term after the first reading of my argument. How many of you have actually managed to finish this whole appeal and understand what I'm telling you, and how much has it cost you just to read it? How much time would any of you need to make this submission argumentatively and write it down for the simultaneous proper performance of your other duties? If you answer that you would really only need a few hours, I will admit that I am wrong, and as an attorney, I am simply not as routine as MIV predicted, when he gave me only a few hours to prepare and travel from Olomouc to Prague instead of at least five days, which he would have admitted to me if he had sent me an invitation to the meeting on the day when it was clear when the meeting was going to take place, which results from the date of the invitation. It was dated on 10. 2. 2021, sent to me in Olomouc 15. 2. 2021. The meeting took place on 16. 2. 2021 at 10 o'clock in Prague. Since procedural defects were not removed, my client could not actually apply any factual and factual objections, and he could practically not begin to argue about the various features of the actions for which the disciplinary proceedings were initiated, and his defence had to focus on the fundamental flaws of disciplinary proceedings, the disciplinary process. Similarly, it is true of a work which has not yet been decided by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Mgr Radek Vondráček insulted Mr. Tomáš Hanzel. And I just hope that the second act wasn't decided just because MIV had to give my client the truth when I couldn't imagine another statement. I'm closing up to that by Mgr Lubomír Volný was not made clear the action for which disciplinary proceedings were brought against him and, as a result, he was forced to defend himself by presuming the circumstances of his disciplinary liability, there was an infringement of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Convention. Since my client was deliberately not given enough time to prepare the defense, there was a breach of article. Whereas: Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Convention. Ad 3 - the bias of the mandate and immune committee. Just to illustrate the efforts of some Members to punish my client at the cost of breaking the law, it follows that the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies did not decide to exclude some members of the MIV from disciplinary proceedings. I will not comment on this any more, for I consider it unnecessary, but ask myself, which one of you would like to make a decision about his possible error by the person who made his comments before and during the proceedings, as some members of the MIV did. Do you think that a person expressing himself in this way can be objective and acknowledge that he was wrong after having been proved wrong? For short, I'm picking out three of the most vicious cases. [[19.00 hours]] Minister Petr Gazdík: The President is sacred in the Rules of Procedure. I will propose the most severe punishment, said the Member, who is also Vice-President of the Committee. - You're talking about the harshest punishment. You are Vice-Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies' mandate and immunity committee. Will the committee sit down because of this incident? - I'm sure you do. I'm sure he'll sit down. Now it's still early, but as committee leader, I'm sure we'll want to meet as soon as possible. Personally, after discussing with my colleagues, I will propose the strictest punishment that the Rules of Procedure allow. - Meaning what specifically? - Specifically, it's a major wage deduction. Source and date: 20. 1. 2021, iDNES, Home News. Vice-President STAN Petr Gazdík wants to enforce the highest possible fine as a member of the committee. Source and date: 21. 1. 2021, source of Tiscal. Petr Gazdík, Vice-President of the Committee, wants to propose the highest possible penalty. This is not a minor fight by Members, but an attack on a governing meeting, which is, according to the Rules of Procedure Act, a sacred person. Therefore, I will propose the highest possible penalty, i.e. a one-month wage deduction, said Law Gazdík and added: Apology in this case is not enough, it would not respect it anyway. News.cz. I'll suggest the most severe punishment. Vice-President STAN Petr Gazdík. Source and date: iDNES, 26. 1. 2021. Petr Gazdík, Vice-Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, said last week that he would demand the highest possible penalty for the Volný, which the committee can impose, and thus a fine of one Member's salary. 26. 1. 2021, Message List. Member Jan Jakob: The behaviour of a Volný Member is outrageous. On Tuesday, there will be a mandate and an immune committee to which I am a member. I will propose the highest possible punishment and apology not only to Vice-President Hanzel, but also to the public. Twitter, 22. 1. 2021. In this sense, the entry of Mr Volný into the area of the President and his physical assault as an attack on parliamentary democracy itself can be considered. That is why it is an unprecedented case and should follow the appropriate punishment. I am very sorry that the Member has not behaved like a decent person and has not given up his parliamentary mandate and enjoys media attention and continues to abuse his stupid act. Jan Jakob, TV iDNES.cz. The President of the meeting shall have an extraordinary position. Through it, MEPs address each other, he directs the meeting, and when he sits behind the counter, he is a certain independent arbiter. In this sense, the entry of Mr Volný into the area of the President and his physical assault as an attack on parliamentary democracy itself can be considered. It is an unprecedented case and should follow the appropriate punishment, Jakob stressed that the Free as a decent person should give up his parliamentary mandate. But instead, he brags about his stupid act in front of the press. According to Jakob, this is unacceptable. Parliamentary leaves. Member Mgr Marek Výborný: Idiot and rude behaviour of the Volný Member is pathetic, assaulting the Vice-President of the House is totally unacceptable, it has nothing to do with political culture, I will demand discussion by the mandate and immune committee, this has nothing to do with democracy, Marek Výborný remarked. News from Tiscali. Another member of the Committee Marek Výborný, KDU-ČSL, said that Free should be affected as far as possible. We really need to be clear and hard, unchristian. Source and date: 22. 1. 2021, Czech Television. Another member of the Committee Marek Výborný, KDU-ČSL. According to him, the House cannot go beyond what has happened, and it must use the instrument it has to do so. The jerk is a jerk, and he stays a jerk, he borrows the words of a member of the song The řiditel Tap bus manager. In addition to the financial penalty, the Výborný will require an apology at the hearing. News flash. I can say for myself that I will be asking for the final decision tomorrow, regardless of the Member's participation or absence. He got the defense room today and tomorrow. It is, in my opinion, clearly sufficient, told iDNES member of the committee Marek Výborný. The accused's right to object to bias corresponds to the obligation of the entitled person to deal with this objection properly. The crime rate of the perpetrator is not a criterion for limiting the exclusion of the obviously biased. In the rule of law, the right to a fair trial is superior to the right to punish at all costs. Do you think it's right to desecrate the law in good faith? Ad four. Illegal modification of the act. In addition to the fact that MIV has not yet decided on the second act for which disciplinary proceedings have been initiated with my client, I am convinced, respectively, because I do not actually know for what specific acts the proceedings have been initiated, what, when, where, who, how, by what and why, that MIV has decided on a different act than that defined. [[Mr Free smiled]] Commencement of disciplinary proceedings by a Member of the Master Radek Vondráček of 26. 1. 2021, No. PS 2021/001489. [[post]] In the complaint Mgr Radek Vondráček is a deed defined by my client on 21. 1. 2021 at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the proposal of the Government of the Czech Republic to agree to extend the period of emergency when discussing this proposal should have allowed disciplinary error without any relevant reference to the broken legal standard. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 3 (3) of Constitutional Law 1993, Art. 1 The Constitution of the Czech Republic, consisting of physically attacking the President's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Tomáš Hanzel, and Mr Jan Chvojka, was also to threaten the use of violence by Members of Ondřej Veselý, and to physically attack two members of the Police of the Czech Republic, who were included in the protection service of the Police of the Czech Republic, when this meeting was to be held after the President's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Tomáš Hanzel, was to call again for him to speak to the present case, or to withdraw the word from him after a double in vain warning by Mr Tomáš Hanzel, the President of the Police of the Czech Republic by turning off the microphone, and after this my client was to move from the post of the governing meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where he was to physically attack the aforementioned persons, or threaten them with the use of physical violence, thus otherwise committing an offence against civil coexistence pursuant to § 7 (1) of the Constitution of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) Point 1 and 4 of the Act Article 251/2016 Coll., on certain offences, thus intentionally disrupting civil coexistence by threatening others with harm to their health and committing other gross behaviour, acts against others. [[Mr Free smiled]] [[Mr Free smiled]] However, the order under appeal defines the action differently. It is therefore illegally modified as follows: Mgr Lubomír Volný with his meeting on Thursday 21. 1. 2021, at the 80th session of the Chamber of Deputies, attempted to take violently the proceedings of the meeting, assaulting Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, further rudely pushed Mr Jan Chvojka away and then struck Mr Michal Ratiborský, thereby committing undignified and aggressive action, which is in direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In the given descriptions of actions I see different acts where it is not possible to modify this deed without changing the subject matter of the proceedings, especially in the character of the proceedings. This practically means that MIV can decide if it is competent, only the act for which it has instituted disciplinary proceedings. If the identity of the action is not respected and the decision is made on an act other than that in which disciplinary proceedings have been instituted, albeit unlawfully in this case, it is an lawlessness in breach of Article 6 (1) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the Convention. Final proposal. In view of the above, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies declare the nullity of both statements of the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 170 of the 36th meeting of 16. 2. 2021, by which the mandate and immunity committee stated that Mr Mgr Lubomír Volný with his meeting on Thursday 21. 1. 2021, at the 80th session of the Chamber of Deputies, attempted to take violently the proceedings of the meeting, assaulting Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, further rudely pushed Mr Jan Chvojka away and then struck Mr Michal Ratiborský, thereby committing an undignified and aggressive act which is in direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and for this he was fined at the rate of a monthly salary. Respectfully, Mgr Eliška Faltýnková Rytířová, lawyer on behalf of Mr Lubomír Volný." [[19.10 hours]] So thank you for your patience and the incredible peace in which you have heard all this. It is obvious that I still have some teaching skills left and quite firmly taming wild animals. Now, I'd like to ask you to make your best decisions based on your best knowledge and conscience, because in your very nature, you can't really make me a better 90,000 campaign than to make any unconstitutional decisions here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u13	I will now ask that the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, Member Stanislav Grospič, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations. One moment, colleague, I forgot about the traditional operation. [[The cleaning staff cleans the speaker's desk and microphone.]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce you to the course of the disciplinary procedure which is the subject of the Chamber of Deputies' proceedings today. Mr Lubomír Volný on 21 January 2021, this year, during his afternoon appearance at the 80th meeting of the House, which was convened on a proposal from the Government of the Czech Republic to agree to the extension of the emergency period. Mr Radek Vondráček and Mr Radek Vondráček submitted a proposal for disciplinary proceedings at the 36th meeting of the mandate and immunity committee on 26 January 2021, which was personally justified. Subsequently, a video recording of Mr Lubomír Volný's speech was played at the 80th meeting of the House. The members of the committee became familiar with the sitting of the House in which Mr Lubomír Volný's speech was recorded and Mr Tomáš Hanzel and Mr Michal Ratiborský's comments were also heard. The mandate and immunity committee has initiated disciplinary proceedings against Mr Lubomír Volný pursuant to § 13 para. 1 and 2, Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and allowed Members of Mr Lubomír Volný to express himself personally and defend himself after a copy of Radek Vondráček's proposal has been handed over to him. The Chairman of the Committee was also informed of the resolution on the initiation of disciplinary proceedings. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný refused to comment on the matter without his legal representative's participation. The members of the committee at this meeting also heard the comments of Mr Jan Chvojka and Mr Ondřej Veselý and the comments of Lieutenant Jan Veselý on the procedure of the members of the protective service and the Director of the Legislative Department of the Office, JUDr. Petr Kymlička, on the regulation of the obligation to protect the airways. Resolution 162 was delivered to Mr Lubomír Volný. The suspended committee meeting then continued on 27 January 2021. At this meeting, Mr Lubomír Volný's legal representative delivered the power of attorney, the initial proposal on the matter and the apology of participation in the hearing. The procedure was subsequently suspended by Resolution 166 until 2 February 2021. The resolution was also delivered to Mr Lubomír of the Volný. On 29 January this year, the Committee then received a written statement from the Police of the Czech Republic that there are currently criminal proceedings in the investigation phase. On 2 February 2021, Mr Lubomír Volný and his legal representative Mgr took part in the ongoing negotiations. Eliška Faltýnková Rytířová, who, as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, sent to me in writing the objections of bias as a whole and the objections of the bias of the six members of the committee and requested that the matter be adjourned pending the decision of the Organising Committee. In the presence of Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný and his attorney, a video of his speech was played at the 80th meeting of the House and Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný refused to comment on the matter. At the meeting on 2 February, the Committee adopted Resolution 167 interrupting the hearing until the time of the decision of the Organising Committee on the objections of bias. Subsequently, Resolution 168, by which he asked the President of the House for an immediate call by the Organising Committee to decide on the objections of bias, and Resolution 169, which he instructed the Chair of the Committee to convene, in agreement with the Vice-President, the continuation of the 36th meeting of the mandate and immune committee. On 7 February 2021, Mr Lubomír's legal representative, Mr Lubomír Volný, sent a request to suspend disciplinary proceedings. On 10 February 2021, the House's Organising Committee decided by resolution 368 to reject the objection to the Committee's bias as a whole and to reject the objections of the six members of the Committee. The resolution of the House's Organising Committee was delivered to Mr Lubomír Volný and his attorney. The date of continuation of the suspended meeting of the 36th meeting of the Committee was then set at 16 February 2021. Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný apologized from the hearing. On 16 February 2021, the Committee adopted Resolution 170, which was personally taken over by Mr Lubomír Volný on 18 February 2021 and received by his legal representative on the same day by means of a data report. The Committee resolution number 170 was then submitted to you together with the appeal of Mr Lubomír Volný. I'm going to introduce you to the entire course of this matter. The Committee's rapporteur on this matter was then appointed by Mr Stanislav Berkovec, who will introduce you to the motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if he is interested in the presentation of the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee, which is Stanislav Berkovec. The Member is interested in speaking. Please, you have the floor. I would have left any resolution for the debate, which I will open after your speech. [[They're arguing.]] As you wish, you can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to prolong the speech. I am very sorry that we have come so far to discuss this matter here. In the context of the debate, if I may, I would like to propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is in line with the decision of the mandate and immunity committee. The detailed performance was given to you on the bench. "The Chamber of Deputies confirms pursuant to § 16 para. Article 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by amendments and supplements, the resolution of the mandate and immune committee No. 170 of 16 February 2021.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u17	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I am asking who is reporting to the debate on this point. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I will therefore ask the rapporteur once again to take the floor and present the voting procedure. We will therefore vote on one resolution, I presume. However, I'm going to ask you to repeat it once more in this place. Yes, please. Mike, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u18	'The Chamber of Deputies confirms according to § 16' - Pardon, yes, so if there is a counterproposal, we would first vote on this counterproposal by Mr Lubomír Volný, which proposes that the Chamber of Deputies declare 'the nullity of both statements of the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 170 of the 36th meeting of 16. 2. 2021, by which the mandate and immunity committee stated that Mr Mgr Lubomír Volný and his meeting on Thursday 21 January 2021 at the 80th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies attempted to take over violently, assaulting Vice-President Tomáš Hanzel, further rudely pushed Mr Jan Chvojka away and then struck Mr Michal Ratiborský, thereby committing an undignified and aggressive act which is in direct violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and for this he was fined at the rate of one month's salary." [[The rapporteur is addressed outside the microphone by Mr Lubomír Free.]] That is, therefore, the proposal by Mr Lubomír Volný, which we should vote on as the first, as a counter-proposal. And then we should vote on my proposed resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is in line with the decision of the mandate and immunity committee. I will read it once more with permission: "The Chamber of Deputies confirms according to § 16 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended and amended, the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee number 170 of 16 February 2021.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u19	There. I'm hearing a request for a check-out from many sides, which I've just granted. I beg you to sign up. [[He's waiting a while.]] At this point, we are already sitting in half the format, thevorum is filled, we are a quorum. So we are voting first on the proposal from Mr Volný, which the rapporteur had just read. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 168, registered 99, for 14, against 72. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u20	We would therefore now vote on the proposal for a mandate and an immune committee, or a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which is in line with the decision of the mandate and an immune committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-004-515.u21	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 169, there are 105 Members, for 89, against 1. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank you, rapporteur, and I conclude this point. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, we will therefore continue with paragraph 530, which I hereby reopen.
