ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the second day of the 87th meeting, and I welcome you all here. I've just checked you all out, I'll ask you to sign up with your cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I note that Members who are not present or excused in writing are deemed to be excused under the agreement of the Members' Clubs. We should start today's meeting by discussing points from the third reading block for which legal deadlines have been met. These are points 326, 328, 331, 332, 333 and 334. These are House prints 966, 532, 984, 317, 374, 896. Then we would continue to discuss points from the block of second reading. At 14.30 we have firmly classified points, namely 375, document 1182 - Proposal for Rules on the Management of Members' Clubs, paragraph 468, document 7528 - Council decisions on the system of EU own resources and its implementation at national level, paragraph 303, press 1126 - Law on real estate mediation, first reading under Section 90, and paragraph 485 - Information of the Government on vaccination strategy, available vaccines and their adequacy. At 18.00 we have a fixed number 283, print 1006, on a one-time special parental contribution, it is the first reading according to § 90 para. 2. Members of the government apologize: Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Before we go on the show, it's March 3rd, David Štolpa's birthday, so David, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] I hope you enjoy your birthday tonight. There. On the agenda. President Faltýnek first, Vice-President Valachová second, both priority rights. [[There's noise in the room.]] And I'll ask for peace in the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u2	Good morning, fellow Members, Mr President. I'll be very brief. Let me suggest, on behalf of our club, that we place it firmly on today, Wednesday 3. 3., from 15.30 point number 4, House printing 1008 - MMR, construction law, and item number 5, House printing 1009 - MMR, construction law related. So for today, Wednesday, it's tight at 3:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u3	Thank you. Vice-President Valachová with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u4	Thank you. Colleagues, co-workers, I'm gonna ask you again to include child debt bans. It's an amendment to the Civil Code. Banning child debt is an important thing. I think we're ready for this, for the vote, and it's important. This is a House press of 984 and I am making two proposals today. Either ban child debt, this press 984, place it as point three today, or if it didn't pass, on Friday as point two. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u5	Well, thank you. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would still like to put forward a proposal for Mrs Valachová's proposal that children's debts be voted today as the first item in today's negotiations. As I announced yesterday, I am convinced that the law of lex Dukovany will probably be discussed for a long time. I believe that this law has priority and should be put forward for negotiations. For this reason I give my proposal to modify the program so that lex Dukovany is placed at the end of the block of third readings, because a number of third readings are waiting here, can be discussed and this law hinders them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u7	Well, thank you. It's point 331. Vice-President Feri with priority rights, is that correct? No? Well, I've got two written applications here. [[Member Feri is speaking off the microphone.]] Just for the record. That point is already third in the third reading, so we would vote first in Mr Bartošek's proposal. Then we would vote on Friday's inclusion as the second item. With priority rights, Mr. President of the Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u8	I have a proposal to add a point to the agenda, and I would like to ask you to consider the point first in the afternoon block - Information on the situation in the Pardubice Region and, in general, how the government intends to deal with the collapse of health facilities. I don't really mean conflict right now, but in other regions, the situation is getting closer. The solution that's in the Pardubice Region is, say, very complicated, I don't want to dissect it right now, I could read it, and then I'll say it at the club president's meeting at one o'clock. But I don't think there can be a single medical facility at the moment - and I think all of us doctors here know that these devices are, some of them may be plastic surgery - that will be out of the system. I think that it is essential to draw spa and spa facilities into the system and that it is necessary to draw the practical doctor into the system more intensively. It's impossible to leave at the edges. This should be done by regulation by the government, and I would therefore like some government opinion to be heard as the first point in the afternoon block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u9	Thank you. Vice-President Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u10	Colleagues, I thank the President of the House for clarifying that the ban on child debts is the third point today. And because I really care about discussing this, I'm still giving a modification to my proposal, which means a solid 12.00 assignment - ban on child debt - today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u11	Okay. So I guess the first thing we're gonna do is vote the counterproposal to be the first point tonight, then we'd vote it's 12:00, and if neither goes, then there's still a suggestion that it's the second point on Friday. We'll have three votes. Mr Lipavský on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come forward with a total of three proposals. The first proposal will not surprise me, I think we should eliminate the Lex Rosatoma, which we should now discuss on the agenda, so that is the first one. I don't think the law is in a situation where there's a consensus. The project needs a match, and we're asking for a standing committee on the construction of new nuclear resources. The letter was supported yesterday by four members for the opposition. So let's give room to find a consensus, to negotiate vague questions, so we don't have to deal with this here in plenary. We can get back to that in a month's time. The project won't jeopardize it. [[9.10 hours]] The second proposal is to have the government present information on the preparation of the procedure for the construction of new nuclear resources. This information may be relatively brief and short. I propose that this be listed as the first item of Friday's negotiations. I believe that this would contribute to information given that, for example, the proposal in some committees was not even included and we could not talk about it properly here in the House. That's a second proposal. Proposal three: I propose to give the government information on the project of the so-called Czech Coronavirus vaccine SARS-CoV-2 as the second point of Friday's meeting, because it is a matter where it seems not to be 160 billion, but only 250 million, but even that is quite a lot in today's conditions. We are in favour of the House's current focus on topics directly related to the resolution of the coronavirus crisis. That is why we propose that Lex Rosatom move forward in some way in time and talk about it calmly. Let's see what's going on across the country. The situation is really not easy, so to spend time here on issues that are not pressing, I think it is not appropriate. However, with regard to government information on the preparation of the project of the so-called Czech vaccine against coronavirus SARS-CoV-2, we ask ourselves why production capacity should be built, who will build it, what the budget will actually serve, what the timetable is. Government documentation is leaky, there's more or less nothing there. Our Vice-President Olga Richterová has given a rather extensive interview on this matter, but if we are talking about a quarter of a billion, it is not appropriate to wait 30 days for Minister Blatný to answer, but it would be fair for him to come out here and introduce us to these things. There's already been a 30 million-dollar study here, we know some of the project's results, but it's not actually clear what's going on. These are the questions that we are asking ourselves, and I think it is appropriate that this be supported by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. If they do not support this, it will be further proof of the way in which the rule in this country takes place. So it was the three designs. To repeat them: discard point 326, print 966, so-called lex Rosatoma, include proposal number two, government information on the preparation of the construction of a new nuclear source, Friday first point, Friday second point - information on the preparation of the project of the so-called Czech vaccine against coronavirus SARS-CoV-2. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I would just like to point out that Mrs Langšádlová made a motion for expulsion yesterday, has already been voted on and is exactly the same, so we will vote on the other two. Mr. Volný. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have an increasing impression that this House is no longer dealing with real life and what is really happening in the streets of our cities and villages, we are dealing with things here with some big time ahead of time, but we are not dealing with what is happening now. It is now happening that conflicts are slowly smoldering in the streets of our cities and there are forms of civil protests and civil disobedience that police, both urban and police of the Czech Republic, are responding with police brutality. I only received two video footage of two mothers yesterday, with little children on their knees by officers and police officers of the Czech Republic. It was because they somehow violated government regulations on masks. Please, this situation is critical and it really looks like someone is trying to create a bloody conflict in the streets of our cities so martial law can be introduced here. That is why I propose as the first item in today's meeting the report by the Minister of the Interior on the police methods used to enforce government regulations. The videos were available until today. I hope they're still on Facebook. The video was deleted from my Facebook page. There's footage of about six, seven, eight officers surrounded by mothers and children. Those kids left them crying. After the intervention, they even left a six-year-old on the spot. My mother was kneeling, handcuffed behind her back, and taken to the maid's office. Please, this can't happen just because someone refuses to wear a drape or refuses to identify themselves. There must be other methods here, because if you continue like this or if the police continue like this, the police will stand up against their own citizens, their own citizens against the police, and we have the germs of civil war and bloody conflicts. So I ask that the report of the Home Secretary on police methods used to enforce government measures be addressed as the first item today. As a second point today, I again propose a report by the Minister of Health on legalization and ensuring the distribution of Ivermectin, because that is right after the police brutal violence, when mommy's necks are kneeling in front of their five-year-old children, so that is the most important other thing that we can end all the other problems that are happening here. I would like to call, through Mr President, Professor Válek, to whom I sent a randomized study of Ivermectin yesterday to address them publicly here, because I think he was spreading a fejková and hoax report yesterday on how much Ivermectin is to be used, and as part of this report by the Minister of Health, an expert debate could be launched between the experts here, whom I am very happy to send all the information I have sent to Professor Válek. So please don't let the Czech Republic turn into a bloody police state where mommy's necks will be kneeling in front of their children. Support this proposal. Let us find out how the Minister feels about this and what methods police officers are using, and please, let us make sure that the Minister of Health treats Ivermectin exactly the same way as Bamlanivimabu and Remdesivir, which he was able to approve and deliver to the Czech Republic in huge amounts for huge money within 14 days. You're not doing it for Lubomír Volný, you're not doing it for Marian Bojek, you're not doing it for the free block, you're doing it for your constituents, you're doing it for the citizens of this country. I beg you to support these proposals and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u15	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President of the Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u16	If I'm asked, I can't not respond. Perhaps it would be good to say clearly what a randomized study is and how randomized from nonrandomized is recognized. You guys who have ever done studies, you know that, so I apologize to them, all my colleagues. Randomized is a random study, it doesn't mean anything. Each study basically today has some feature of randomization, and it basically means that I choose randomly: I close my eyes and choose one from the bag, I put it to the right, the other to the left, right, left, right, left. That means I have two files, and the files are completely randomly selected. A randomized prospective study means I'm going to build two files in advance, and then somehow evaluate the files. They may be randomized studies, but they may be retrospective and prospective. But even a randomized prospective study is basically nothing, because it depends on the method of randomization, and de facto, when you do more randomized studies and you make metaanalysis out of those results, you have some evidence that you can use. [[9.20 hours]] Statistical data really depends on it. I'm not questioning the function of every drug at all. I know studies that claim that Megadávka C vitamin in infusion therapy - if Professor Vyzula listens through the President, I hope he will confirm - that megadávka vitamin C in infusion therapy, as it reappears in individual studies, in patients at the terminal stage of some cancer types, can somehow be effective. And, yes, I know all sorts of oncologists who use the megaducks in IV therapy. I do, but I can't imagine in my life what's-his-name? - in the Blue Book, which is our Bible, as far as oncology is concerned, someone was able to publish something like that. These are case studies, these are mini studies whose results have never been discovered by chance. It's on the level that Lepešinská found that crushing the protozoa would create living matter from inanimate matter, and no one repeated it after it, but in the Soviet Union at that time it was a whole part of biology and we had to change our teachings. I didn't study at the time because I was young for that time, but then Professor Herčík had to deny his biology textbook, which he published because Lepešinská thought of a way to make inanimate matter alive. And these are similar types of studies. I'd like to say something about Ivermectin. It should be noted that Ivermectin is not a new substance, the problem is in the use itself. It's safe in the worm mode. This is basically a medicine that is used to kill worms when I simplify it, which is why it is used considerably more frequently in Asian countries than elsewhere, because there are many more of them. The maximum dose approved by the manufacturer for deworming is 200 micrograms per kilogram. Since the 1980s, this medicine has been administered in over 2 billion doses, mainly in Asian countries, but in a meaningful dose. There's a study that these guys are referring to here - I can send you a DOI, that means an identifier from Scop, or PubMed, this study. It's the only study that's somehow verified that triggered this whole hysteria around Ivermectin. According to this study, and now please pay attention, the dose would have to be at least 800 micrograms, which means a quadruple dose before the maximum safe dose approved by the company. This, again, is not something that can be done because there are studies on acylpirin where you have a safe dose of acylpirin, and of course you have the upper limit of a safe dose. A normal person, when he has a temperature, he takes one acylpirin, maybe two, maybe three, now I say four, that's what real doctors in your ranks start frowning at me when I say ten, so they'll spit on me in the hallway, but repeated takings and megadages or high doses of acylpirin can have the prevention of some oncological diseases. I can't imagine a serious oncologist, I can't imagine a serious doctor putting that in the protocol, but yet there are people who take long-term acylpirin. I don't know if it's a good thing or if it's a bad thing, but one thing is what can work, and one thing is what works on the basis of records based. I completely understand that in desperate situations, people resort to desperate things. This House, albeit in a completely different composition, and I'm not really criticizing it right now and I'm trying to be very correct in the same (?) The composition was once approved by the Masaryk Cancer Institute, and through Mr President, I hope Professor Vyzula will confirm it, try to devitalize the tumor, because the devitalization of the tumor was something that appeared. Our colleague surgeon, the chief of the county hospital, who was a very good surgeon, published a series of articles. There was a large group of patients that this surgeon was saving by means of devitalization, and the devitalization of the tumor seemed to be something very interesting. I, as a person who brought the devitalization of hepatocellular carcinoma from Japan into the Czech Republic - and de facto the devitalization consisted of leading a very thin tube through the artery to the supply artery of the cancer, the carcinoma of the blockage by means of an embolization material, which is a devitalization, blood does not flow into the cancer, cells die and the tumor disappears, so I said: yes, if the tumor completely disconnects from the blood supply, then the tumor will certainly start shrinking, and it may disappear in part of the patients. The problem is, if I do a study and the study is robust enough, it means I have a good choice of patients and so on and so on and so on - outside my options is to explain how robust studies are being done, for that are teams of professionals who are preparing the design of those studies - so then I find that the short-term effect that tumor has disappeared is excellent, the effect on the patient's long-term survival is a year and a half on average. That means: I'm not saving his life, but I'm increasing his quality and prolonging it, and I can't apply that principle to all tumors in general. Yet this House, or then the Minister of Health or who, I don't care who decided that three faculty hospitals, three large hospital hospitals, had to test this, and those results were never very public again, because it turned out catastrophically. None of these patients turned out well. And who's gonna remember the devitalization tonight? This is not to say that devitalization, i.e. inhibition of blood flow to some special types of tumour, is not useful and that there will be no other indications. And that's the problem with this drug. Yes, if I use a dose four times higher than the upper limit allowed from the company, and recommended, the drug has, according to one or two serious studies with a relatively small set of patients - and yes, those studies were randomized, the question is how randomization was done, and this is beyond the possibilities of this forum - the drug may have a supportive effect for covid patients simply because in these megadoses, four times the upper limit of the permitted dose, it partially eliminates viruses. He doesn't exactly beat them up, but he doesn't just destroy the viruses, he destroys other similar organisms in the body that we need. For example, with Escherichia coli, I believe there is no clear information so far if it is not beaten up and destroyed by intestinal microflora. Again, I'm not criticizing. I do not criticize the use of any medicine that is useful, just please do not seek simple solutions because they do not exist. Let me conclude by saying: if the studies really existed and the drug was so miraculous, do you really think that the pharmaceutical company that makes it wouldn't immediately push it into the market, wouldn't it have supported it, since that's how some of those who are skeptical consider pharmaceutical companies to be thugs who are trying to make huge money on patients? And the second thing I'd like to point out. Yes, there is a big mistake - but we said it across the political spectrum, all the doctors on the health committee - that there is no continuous examination of all the possible types of drugs that have appeared, once it was, a few months ago, D vitamin in megadoses and infusion therapies and different. I mean, remember, we're not talking about it anymore. But the way this drug moves the public today, a few months ago, it was another drug and another drug, they disappeared, and no one's talking about them today. I know that the SÚKL gives its opinion on its website, but we have professional societies here, we have scientific advice here, so I would like to ask the Minister of Health, really assertively and without any ulterior intentions: let's really give an expert opinion on each type of treatment, let's try to explain it, just like I do, the radiologist, try to explain it here, and thank Professor Štěrba that he bluffed me and sent me the information, thank Professor Hus and other colleagues from the Faculty Hospital Brno who, unlike me, understand the issue and try to give me the most serious and competent information. The fact that patients don't understand what we're telling them isn't our fault, it's our fault that we can't explain it enough. And the last thing I want to say is, there's a terrible fear of vaccines - changing genetic information, chipping, some of them being completely senseless, some of them making excuses very complicated. I am surprised that those who are worried about a single dose of vaccine or two doses of vaccine are not concerned about the long-term use of four times as much medicine as its permitted upper limit. I'm not saying there must be any complications, but you can't ask doctors to prescribe and give patients something that's completely contrary to the recommendation of the company that manufactures the drug four times over the top of the dose. Yes, let's use it in controlled studies. Yes, we will determine a workplace where, with the consent of the patient, it will be used with his written consent. But let's just be rational about this, please! Let us not seek in this salvation of the sick with covid! It's not their salvation! That's somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u17	I'm sorry, I've been warned I didn't have the speaking desk disinfected. So if the lady in charge hears me, if she could come in, and I will ask my colleague Válek to disinfect his hands because he was leaning in the places where Mr Volný leaned before him. I'll read a few apologies so far. Minister Blatný apologizes today for the morning meeting for work reasons. The Minister apologizes - that is not the lady, it is the gentleman - Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes today from 9 to 10 o'clock for work reasons. [[disinfection table]] At the same time, I warn Mr Volný and Mr Bojek that they are violating government measures in the hall, and I will ask them to put on a drape. They will not, of course, do so, thereby giving them a reminder in accordance with Section 19 of the Rules of Procedure. This may be what we have done for today, and it is Mr Feri's turn for the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister. I would like to propose the same point as yesterday, namely Government Information on New Measures. I can explain it even better than I did yesterday. I realize that ministers have a lot of work to do with their departments, and they probably can't be here all the time to answer individual questions. Therefore, I think that the appropriate procedure would be to open the item, read the questions, and I would, if approved, as rapporteur, send it to the relevant ministers or to the ministries, prepare the answers, and in their presence, then answer it here. It sounds like something that would take a few minutes, but it would answer the most pressing questions I presented yesterday. These are the questions, for example, when you live only at the right word, as you prove to be actually residing outside your permanent residence, and so on and so on and so on. This means, I propose this new point and a firm classification either right now as the first point, possibly at 14.30 today, or at 17.00 today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u19	The Member proposed the same point as yesterday, but I would have accepted it here, because the measures are changing continuously, so it is essentially a slightly different proposal than it was. Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try again today to load, to firmly place item 332, House press 317, Labour Code, and this time on Friday in the block of first reading as the first point. Thank you. In the third reading block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u21	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová, on the agenda, was the last to be submitted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to look at the government's communications again, so I propose that this point be included next week 11. 3:00 p.m. Why do I consider this point absolutely essential? We are indeed in an extraordinary crisis, which, in addition to the level of health, has a plane in our ability to communicate with the public. As I have mentioned here several times, it is a prerequisite to cope with such a crisis that concerns not only government measures, but the behavior of every single one of us, that each one of us, every citizen understand these measures, to accept them and act according to them. I think that the government still has a huge handicap and a huge scope for improvement in this, because since the beginning of the pandemic, not only is there a variety of confusion that we have experienced many times, that each member of the government may have given different information. We have experienced this and we experience it all the time that measures change very often. But I also pointed out in the long run that there is a great deal of disinformation spreading in society. To cope with the crisis, whether it is now the one that concerns reducing the number of people who are infected, reducing the burden on our medical facilities, there is also one big task ahead of us, and that is to get the corresponding population vaccinated. I regret to say that although we are discussing this de facto and I have also talked with the Minister, even with three ministers, with representatives of the Ministry for many months, until today the campaign for vaccination has not actually begun and we are letting our public face a huge amount of disinformation, a huge amount of disinformation! And it goes so far that even 40 percent of social workers are willing to be vaccinated. I've also talked to Minister Maláčová about this. You know there are hospitals where almost half of the medical staff are ready to get vaccinated and agree to vaccination. And that's all because we didn't just miscommunication, but they really had the public exposed to a huge disinformation massage. I know the misinformation for vaccination was in those misinformational remedies before. As a result, we had low vaccinations because of measles. That is why we were also picking up a large number of measles epidemics before the outbreak of this health crisis. But this time, the situation is extremely serious, with huge health and economic implications, and that is why I think that good government communication, including combating misinformation, strategic communication is a fundamental prerequisite for us to cope with this crisis. I am very sorry that you have not made use of the offer of many experts in this area who have offered help to the government. I really think that when the government does not take this problem seriously, it will not take seriously the fact that good communication, strategic communication with the public is not something extra, but it is a fundamental prerequisite for managing this crisis, so we cannot succeed, which means that people behave accordingly, and that enough people are vaccinated. I think this is simply part of the government's responsibilities, which are not fulfilled accordingly. I'm sure you know how many people consider coronavirus to be just a media bubble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-000-000.u23	Thank you. That's all there is to the agenda. I will call my colleagues from the lobby and we will vote on the individual proposals as they have been said. First of all, there is the motion by President Faltýnek to include the House Press 1008, the Building Act, and as point number 5... paragraph 4 and point 5, the House Press 1009 at 15.30, this afternoon, I apologize. I didn't read it right. The two points are logically linked, and I propose that we vote with one vote. This means that at 15.30 we will include points 4 and 5, construction law and building law, related. Initiating vote. Sorry, I'm declaring the vote (number 46) confusing. I checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to rejoin. [[9.40 hours]] I'm reopening the vote. Who's in favour of the construction bill at 3:30 today? Who's against it? Voting number 47, now logged in 102 Members, for 63, against 32. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Valachová proposed the inclusion of press 984, paragraph 331 - ban on child debts. President Bartošek's counterproposal has fallen on that account, so that it will be listed as the first item today. So we would first vote against the proposal. So the ban on child debt is the first point today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 48, 97 Members registered, for 38, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Now, then, we will vote on Mrs Valachová's proposal, which has modified it and proposes it firmly at 12 o'clock today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 49, 97 Members registered, for 41, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Then there was a variant proposal for it to be listed on Friday as the second point, but we don't have the first one yet on Friday, so we're going to vote it as the first one on Friday. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of printing 984 being the first on Friday? Who's against it? Voting number 50, 97 Members are logged in, for 91, against no one. The motion was accepted. President Válek has proposed the inclusion of a new point in the Information of the Government on the situation in the Pardubice Region. So first of all, we're going to add a new point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 97 Members signed in, for 49, against no one. The motion was accepted. The President subsequently proposed that this point be placed as the first point this afternoon. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 52, 97 Members registered, for 40, against no one. The motion was not accepted. First, Mr Lipavský suggested the elimination. I told you, we've already voted on this once. If there is no objection, then it proposes the inclusion of a new point of Government Information on the preparation of the construction of a new nuclear source. Classification of the new item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 53, 97 Members signed in, for 33, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, Mr Lipavský proposes the inclusion of a new item Information of the Government on the project of the Czech vaccine against SARS-CoV-2. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 54, 97 Members registered, for 44, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Volný proposes today to include a new item in the report by the Minister of the Interior on the methods used by the Police of the Czech Republic in the enforcement of government measures. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 55, 97 Members registered, for 21, against 16. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by Mr Volný is to include a new item in the Health Minister's report on the legalisation of the use of Ivermectin. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 56, 97 Members signed in, for 16, against 6. The motion was not accepted. Mr Feri proposes to include a new item in Government Information on new government measures. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 57, 97 Members signed in, for 45, against 2. The motion was not accepted. Mrs Aulická proposes to include point 317 in the third reading on Friday as the first item. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 58, there are 98 Members, for 63, against 20. The motion was accepted. The last proposal was Mrs Langšádlová's proposal for a new item entitled Government Communication. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 59, 98 Members registered, for 35, against 22. The motion was not accepted. According to my comments, we have dealt with all the proposals that have been made here today, and we will continue according to the approved programme. Opening point 326, which is
