ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 110th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with all ID cards, or tell me who is applying for a replacement card. With the replacement card number 11, Mr Richter votes with the replacement card number 15, Mr Profant votes. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 16 June this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva. Does anyone else have a suggestion? [[No one's checking in.]] So we're going to vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, there are 92 Members, for 92, against none. I note that we have appointed Mr Petr Dolínek and Mr František Kopřiva as verifiers of the 110th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting they asked to excuse their absence from the negotiations by the following Members: Adamec Ivan working Tereza, Hyťhová Ondřej health reasons, Bartoň Ivan health Lukáš, Bartoš Ivan working reasons, Bartošek Jan working reasons, Baxa Martin Kasal reasons, Běhounek Jiří working reasons, Beitl Petr David reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel Kohoutek reasons, Benda Marek family reasons, Blaha Stanislav working reasons, Bláha Jiří working reasons, Blažek Pavel Jáč reasons, Bojko Marian health reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav foreign travel, Černý Iva personal Kalátová, Červíčková Monika working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav health reasons, Farskýý Jan working reasons, Fiala Petr working reasons, Fiala Radim working reasons, Hoppe Libor working reasons, Gazdík Petr working reasons, Golasowská Pavla work reasons, Grebeníček Miroslav health reasons, Grospič Stanislav from 16 hours working reasons, Hanzel Tomáš, Hanzel family reasons, I health Kozlová Jáček I jáček Lenka foreign trip, Krutáková Jana health reasons, Kytýr Jaroslav working reasons, Langšádlová Helena working reasons, Mališ Přemysl family reasons, Martinů Jaroslav working reasons, Maříková Karla working reasons, Matyášová Eva personal reasons, Mihola Jiří working reasons, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana working reasons, Navrkal František working reasons, Nevludová Ivana working reasons, Okamura Tomio from 15.15 hours working reasons, Pikal Vojtěch working reasons, Rakušan Vít working reasons, Rutová Miloslava health reasons, Sommerová Olga personal reasons. Member Hrnčíř Jan cancels his apology, is present. Stanjura Zbyněk working reasons, strýček Jiří health reasons. - kohoutek Jiří is here and he's not apologizing, so here's a mistake. So Mr Kohoutek Jiří cancels his apology because he is present. - Stanjura Zbyněk working reasons, šindelář Pavel working reasons, Valenta Jiří foreign travel, Válková Helena working reasons, Venhoda Petr working reasons, Volný Lubomír working reasons, Vymazal Jaroslav working reasons, Zahradník Jan working reasons. Mr Krejza also apologizes for today's extraordinary meeting. Now members of the government who apologize for today's meeting: Babiš Andrej working reasons, Benešová Marie working reasons, Dostálová Klára working reasons, Kulhánek Jakub working reasons, Plaga Robert working reasons, Toman Miroslav working reasons, Vojtěch Adam working reasons. The Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes for the entire day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of Defence. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 110th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition to the programme can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. At this point, Mr Marian Jurečka, President of the KDU-ČSL, came to me with priority rights. I wanted to ask Chairman TOP 09: Also before the debate is opened? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] After. But President Jurečka had a wish to speak immediately. Please have the floor with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-000-000.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sorry, I am taking advantage of this because I still have to go to the next meeting, then I will return to the meeting of the plenary, so I am therefore acting now for time reasons, but allow me a few comments on this extraordinary meeting and on this House press that we have received. I must say that for us, for the KDU-ČSL and the coalition of SPOLU, the issue of the amount of retirement pensions in the Czech Republic is important. In the past, we have always supported the legal valorization, logically, and the amount that came as a proposal to increase above the legal valorisation. Today, however, we are still in the difficult period of this year, when a record deficit is planned here again with a view to the next three years, when the overall deficit is planned, as the government proposes, CZK 1 trillion. And we see as a very debatable issue of raising pensions across the board, as the government is proposing in this House press beyond the minimum legal valorisation. And it is really important for us, and we would like to ask, and this proposal will also be made here, so that we can also discuss this in the second and third reading, because we want to make amendments to the second reading. I can say for the KDU-ČSL club, we want to make amendments that would go in the direction of helping raise pensions for moms who raised their children, raised us, today's productive generation, who, through their contributions, actually helps to fulfill the pension account. They were mothers who worked their 35 years properly. However, the system is set up today, unfortunately, by having and knowing one merit, namely the merit of financial, the amount of earnings. He doesn't know the merit of generational solidarity, someone putting a piece of their life into raising children. That is why we will want to propose, at second reading, a proposal to increase pensions targeted, addressably, to mothers who raised children, the five hundred mothers a month additional to the pension agreed by the professional pension committee for fair pensions, that is one of its conclusions. We want to file the motion, which is why we need the second reading. We don't want those scissors to stay open like this, but we want to start grasping them, so that those who are actually being punished by the system for contributing to the fact that today the pension pillar has the income it has, so we want to correct this injustice. And then there is a second moment, which we also want to adjust in our amendments, and that is how we calculate and the amounts of widowing and widowing pensions. I think that even this group of very vulnerable seniors deserves the attention of the Chamber of Deputies and support. So from these two targeted issues, and I think that they are absolutely clear, defendable, we want to support these groups of seniors in the Czech Republic in a targeted way, because they really deserve this support. And that is why we do not want to block anything here, surround it, this meeting today can be very quick, very factual, so that it can be subsequently a second and third reading, so today we want to not approve it under Section 90, but then we want to prepare, submit and defend our amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-23-ps2017-110-01-000-000.u3	So now I'm gonna read some more apologies. So Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes for illness and then apologizes for work reasons for Mrs Irena Blažková. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 110th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 115 Members registered, 99 against none. The agenda has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of the show that is
