ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u1	200. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations And please note that by 11 o'clock at the latest, applications for oral interviews may be submitted and their lottery will then be drawn. On the agenda of the 118th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, a total of 67 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 12 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further'. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. [[9.10 hours]] Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpelation on the discount on disability pensions, but the Prime Minister is not present, so this cannot be discussed. [[She's consulting with a staff member from the organizational department.]] The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, which means that it takes time. The first 13 interpelations are the same thing. Next, we have again Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who responded to Mrs Olga Richterová's interpellation on the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities, implementing comprehensive housing support. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 709. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the interruption therefore persists. Next in line - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's interview on 2 000 billion money from our citizens from lithium. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 770. The discussion of this response was interrupted into the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, so the situation here continues again. Another interview - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the lack of primary and kindergarten capacity. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 897. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the situation therefore persists, the discussion of the interpelation continues to be interrupted. Another interpelation - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1015. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the situation therefore persists, is still interrupted. Another interpelation - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on regional compensation. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1017. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the situation therefore persists. Another interpelation - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jakub Janda's interpellation in support of the sport area in the time of the corona crisis. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1098. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, and the situation therefore persists. Another interpelation - Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Jan Lipavský interpellation on the planned journey of economic advisor to the President of the Republic of Martin Nejedlý to Moscow. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1124. The discussion of this response has been interrupted into the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, so this is also where the situation persists. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Pavel Žáček's interpelation on the protection of classified facts of the Office of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1132. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. Another interpelation - Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to the interpelation of Jan Farský on the demolition of railway buildings in the Králové Hradec Region. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1187. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, so the situation here also lasts. Another interpelation - Minister of Justice Marie Benešová responded to Mr Marian Jurečka's interview on the convicted lobbyist Roman Janoušek. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1188. The discussion of this response has been interrupted in the presence of Minister of Justice Marie Benešová. The condition also lasts. There is also - Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček replied to Mr Jan Jakob's interpellation regarding information on the request for extension of the exemption granted from the obligation to use the national electronic tool for the Directorate of Roads and Motorways of the Czech Republic until 31 December 2023. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1216. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, so this is also where the situation persists. In addition, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to Ms Dana Balcarová's interpellation on the preparation of the Czech-German contract for improving the navigability of the Elbe. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1259. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. We are therefore continuing the debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to discuss the matter of the treaty with the German side, the international agreement on the navigation of the Elbe. I have intervened in writing with Minister Havlíček, namely 15. 4. Unfortunately, the answer gave me absolutely no opportunity to understand what was being prepared. The contract was going on for a long time, but the evidence wasn't public, so I didn't really know what was going on. After that, 20. 7. I really signed the contract, and I learned that from the media, although I repeatedly asked what the contract was like. I am speaking here because I see the great gravity of the impact of this treaty on our Elbe watercourse because, in fact, this contract prefers the navigability of the Elbe over other values and it is contrary to the overall concept for the Elbe, which no longer perceives navigability as the main value of the Elbe, but prefers above all such qualities as the ability to retain water, such as the ability to face the torrential rains, which means measures against flooding and at the same time promoting biodiversity. That's what I think these are the values that the Elbe has, except when we take what a beautiful Labe it is in the area of Decin, the Lab sandstone, you all probably know. [[9.20 hours]] And I'm most concerned about the fact that we're committed to the agreement that I already have at the moment, that we're going to navigate the Elbe to a depth of 230 centimeters, but the Němec are committed to only 140 centimeters. That means there's quite a large volume of disproportion. We will ensure a rather significant increase in navigability, which means that we will have to take some steps that will deepen the Elbe, and it is white that it is two sailing stages, and this is the sailing stage of Děčín, under Děčín and the sailing stage at Přelouč. Both these buildings were assessed in terms of environmental impacts and NATURA 2000 areas. And for both of these investigations - the Minister of the Environment is here, perhaps supplementing me - it has been found that these buildings cannot be implemented in such a way as to avoid serious environmental damage, and especially the Natura 2000 area, which is actually a violation of European law at the moment. So I do not know how Minister Havlíček will want to achieve that he will provide 230 centimeters of navigation depth. It seems to me that this is actually the next step towards continuing towards the creation of the Danube-Odra-Labe navigation channel. I think it's a preparation for ensuring navigability from Přelouč to the border with Germany at this depth, so it's a clear step and it's a huge investment. The Danube-Odra-Labe channel would represent hundreds of billions for our budget, and we don't even know how much, but already several billions have been spent on preparation and project work. The sailing stage at Děčín, which I have information, would also cost several billions, although, as I said, it is contrary to the protection of the environment and the protection of NATURA 2000. So here I just wanted to point out the seriousness of the fact that Minister Havlíček is going in this direction, in the direction of building the Danube-Odra-Labe channel, which I think most of us understand is that this is a construction that was designed long ago in the last century and does not belong to that century, because we really prefer water retention in the landscape rather than acceleration, and also acceleration by concreteizing the landscape. It seems to me that it is very dangerous, and I see it as a great risk to the current government. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u3	I am just, Madame, being so benevolent, because he is really interrupted by the Minister's presence. [[Mrs Balcar: Thank you very much.]] So I'm just gonna say to the microphone that your performance was off protocol because, as I was saying, it was interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Industry and Trade, Minister Havlíček. Unfortunately, there's nothing I can do about it. Now I'm gonna read some apologies. Mr Marek Výborný apologizes from 9 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Petr Gazdík apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Investigation Committee for the accident in Bečva, which he is a member of, probably from today, and Vice-President of the House Tomáš Hanzel apologizes on Thursday 16. 9. and Friday 17. 9. for personal reasons. And now we have another interpellation where there will certainly be speeches under the Rules of Procedure. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová responded to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interpellation in the matter of drawing the consequences from the conclusion of the court, an illegal appeal to the newlyweds. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1261. I am opening the debate and Mr Vojtěch Munzar is reporting. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary isn't present, it's a shame, because it's the last day of the interview, and I don't think I'm gonna have the chance to talk to the Minister about it, to give her an opinion. So I'm not going to propose an interruption to the Minister's presence today, but I'm going to give my intervention, because it seems to me that in the Minister's reply, there are serious facts that you should know, colleagues and colleagues. Each story has its beginning and should have its end. I thought the end of illegal calls to newlyweds The Financial Administration would be the decision of the court of April this year, which stated that these challenges were illegal. What was my surprise when I asked the Minister - once again, she made the court's decision lighten and defended this illegal procedure again. This story about the illegal challenges of the wedding guests is called defending illegal practices and mitigating overuse of powers until the body is torn apart by the Minister, which is in this case de facto modus vivendi by Minister Schillerová. Just to remind you: At the end of July 2018, the Financial Administration called on about 95 newlywed couples under the threat of a fine to report to the Financial Administration details of their wedding reception - questions of the type where they had a reception, information about the number of wedding guests, simply personal questions, under the threat of a half-million-dollar fine. What is important: Financial administration called them as obliged persons, even those newlywed couples who had a wedding reception at home. I'm sure you remember, colleagues and colleagues, we've discussed this here several times. It was already pointed out from the parties to the expert public that the sending of calls was illegal, because the wedding guests are not obliged under Section 57 of the Tax Code to which the Financial Administration referred. And the Secretary of State defended this place with words, and I quote, "It wasn't an excess that went beyond the legal framework." At the same time, according to the Minister, the supervision of the Financial Administration under the leadership of the then CEO of the Financial Administration, Janeček turned out to be such that there was no error and lawlessness. Despite the constant defence of illegal practices and false claims made by the Regional Court in Ostrava in April of this year in the part of the judgment concerning these challenges, it confirmed that the calls were illegal, and the wedding guests are not mandatory persons. This confirmed the words of the professional public. I could read the verdict here, but since the secretary isn't here, I'm not gonna do it, you can all look it up. So, on the basis of the judgment, I asked the Minister what will be the consequences of the Financial Administration that defended the procedure, and what measures will be taken, in particular, to ensure that appeals in the appeal bodies of the Financial Administration do not merely serve as a defence of illegal procedures for the officials of the Financial Administration. This problem is an example, a clear example and proof that appeals are not working if they are merely a defence of illegal practices. Not every entrepreneur has the taste, energy, patience and will to solve everything through the courts. Well, what was my surprise that the secretary's reply was once again defending illegal procedures and easing. The answer revealed that the lawlessness of the calls was not stated by the court. Even this appeared in the Minister's reply, despite the verdict. Colleagues and colleagues, how do you think you're gonna do? The financial administration behave in the future when the Minister sends a signal to it, constantly sending a signal that it can afford anything that can exceed powers? This will only contribute to further illegal practices. And to this feeling of omnipotence at the expense of citizens' rights, the Minister makes a high contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u5	Basically, Mr. Vojtěch Munzar does not propose a resolution, so... Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u6	I'm not suggesting it because the Minister is not here and he can't express himself. Otherwise, I would have made a suggestion, but given this situation, I'm not suggesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u7	Yeah, I get it, I get it, I get it. So thank you, and I'll move on to another interpellation. Again, Mr Vojtěch Munzar has another interview. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová replied to Mr Vojtěch Munzar's interview on controls and sanctions for real estate brokers under AML. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1262. Initiating debate. Yes, Mr. Vojtěch Munzar reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u8	Thank you. Once again, I have a comment on the absent Madam Secretary and her answers. I have a feeling that the Ministry of Finance, or institutions under the authority of the Ministry of Finance, have found a new target for their kneeling. The target was real estate brokers, real estate brokers. The AML and AML respectively became a tool for kneeling and fine-tuning. Financial analysts want real estate brokers to make de facto impossible and sometimes absurd demands, and if real estate brokers don't deliver them, they're fined. According to the obligations under the AML law, entrepreneurs must check that their clients' money is so-called clean, as a prevention against money laundering. This concerns, for example, real estate brokers, to which the State has actually transferred part of its control activity, without telling them exactly how to proceed with this control. Nevertheless, they are visited by checks and yet they are fined. On the question of the Minister whether a method was issued for real estate brokers, how they should proceed and what the state would require at all, the Minister's reply was negative. Similarly, there is no uniform procedure for what and how controllers will be required of real estate brokers. It doesn't exist, yet tens of thousands of thousands of fines are being imposed. So the state wants something, it doesn't say exactly what, the controllers don't have to tell them exactly what they want, but most importantly, they started handing out fines slowly like they did on a running belt. The answers, Madam Secretary, are very surprising to me, and I have no sense of reason, because the answer is as an inspector's answer, for whom everyone is precautionaryly suspicious, and all people should turn into controllers and control each other, and for their own control, there would be no time for their real work. It's completely out of reality. I will give you specific examples of what a fine is given for, for example, for not keeping a real estate acquisition title. I wanted to ask the Minister: "Why, for God's sake, if the acquisition titles are part of a public database of real estate departments?" It's clear to everyone that when a broker prepares to sell some real estate, he works with an acquisition title, that's from the logic of the matter. Why should he duplicate his preservation? I mean, it's a terrible bureaucracy, and it's a terrible fag for a fine. The Minister's answer is that it is to prove to the inspection authorities that he worked with him. So, according to the Minister, it is not only an obligation to get to know him and check him, but also to keep him, so that the State Controller can properly check that a real estate agent whose principal mission is not to be a controller checked his client correctly. It's completely nonsense. Real estate brokers also have an obligation to check client resources. But they have no choice but to do so by asking questions about their client. They have no claim and no right - and in my view it is so right - to require financial institutions to communicate bank data to their clients to real estate brokers. In reply, the Minister claims that real estate brokers are required by their clients to require, for example, bank statements and tax returns. Can you imagine coming to an ad at a real estate agency and being the first question you get: So we can close the deal together, but bring me tax returns and bank statements to look at what you spend and who sends you money as a realtor? I wanted to ask the secretary if they were mandatory persons under this law and the bank. So, by any chance, the bank clients and their accounts aren't checked directly by the banks? So why give a ticket to real estate brokers for something they don't really have a chance to check, and what does someone else do at the same time? So should real estate brokers, according to the secretary of accounts and profit and loss accounts of their clients. For proboha's sake, real estate brokers aren't accountants and auditors. But be careful, Madam Secretary has a clue she wrote in her reply. If the company has zero profit or is in loss, she's already a suspect. So, friends, if you want to develop your business and you want to invest in something, like last year at the time of the covid, you're already suspects. It seems absurd to me. I don't know about you, but I sure do. But they're the answers of the secretary. Do you know how this all feels to me? The State got rid of its obligation to control the AML directive by transferring it by law to individual entrepreneurs. He could thus present to the European Commission that we have already resolved in the Czech Republic. And now he's found a reason to kneel to a realtor. The real reason is, according to my high fines, which the state grants. As I said, without giving the state a methodical tool to proceed precisely, it wants them to perform their duties in a virtually unrealistic way. The state can approach checks in two ways. Either controls serve as part of the management and setting up of the system, or their aim is only to seek punishment, sanctioning and obtaining the highest possible proceeds from fines to the state budget. I'm afraid the institutions under the Ministry of Finance, under the leadership of the Minister, have chosen a second method. Let me make one final point. You can buy and sell real estate today without real estate brokers, you can agree directly. In such a case, the parties to the trade are not checked at all. I mean, maybe if it happens through bank accounts through banks. So it's pretty obvious that the business that the AML directive is aiming at isn't going to be primarily the ones that go through the real estate brokers. All the more so, from my point of view, are the impossible demands that the Treasury wants real estate brokers to face. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u9	If no one else reports, I am done with the debate. I am now asking Mr Vojtěch Munzar, as proposed by the House of Deputies' resolution on this answer. [[I'm not suggesting any.]] You're not suggesting, yeah, all right. So we're going to postpone this interpelation and move on to another interpelation. In the meantime, I'll read the apologies. An apology from the hearing is given by Mr David Kasal on 16. 9. for working reasons, on 16 September for the whole day for health reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Daniel Pawlas 16. 9. and 17. 9. apologizes for hearing the Chamber of Deputies for health reasons, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises 16. 9. for working reasons, Mr Radek Koten apologizes today for working reasons. So Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to Petr Bendl's intervention on financial support for Agrofert's companies. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1268. I am opening the debate and Mr Petr Bendl is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, it's a sad sight for me here, no minister has arrived at today's interview, I've seen the Minister of the Environment here for a moment, but otherwise... Minister Havlíček... in a matter which, I think, is serious and, as a result, can mean enormous economic damage to the whole Czech Republic, to the conflict or to the conflict of interests of our Prime Minister and companies, which he says no longer controls, even if I think there are reasonable doubts about it. I approached Minister Havlíček with an interview, asking for the definition and answer of four simple questions: Which companies at which date and in what volume of Agrofert holding in 2014 to 2021 drew financial subsidies or investment incentives from sources within the Ministry of Industry? Who decided to grant them? Will it require repayment of the aid? If so, what steps have they taken or are they going to take on this matter, and from what sources have financial support been granted, or from which specific items and chapters of the State budget of which institution or organisation and under which rules? I came to these questions first of all after the public interpretation of the Prime Minister, who said publicly that the Czech Republic will not pay anything, that nothing has yet been paid out of European money, that Agrofert has not yet received any money from European money, and therefore there is no reason why it should return it. I deliberately turned to the MIT because it is subsidies from the MIT that are not eligible, they are not aids and subsidies and investment incentives to which - for example, unlike agriculture, where such aid exists - any company would be entitled. Just for those of you who have the interpellation... which can be read, including the answer on the website of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: there I learned where everything was drawn, including the date of the decision to grant the subsidy which the companies received. We all live by Agrofert, everyone feels that it is only one company Agrofert, but Agrofert is a holding owned and expanded by the whole Czech Republic. So just at random: Fatra, a. s. - paid CZK 547,000 to support energy savings, challenge; Cerea, a. s. - 2.5 million, Ethanol Energy, and s. - 59 million for energy savings, Primagra, a. s. - energy savings 927 000, Research Institute of Organic Synthesizers - 2 million, Green meadow bakery, which received CZK 100 million from the state budget at this time - if it was not yet paid by European money, which by the way also received from the Ministry of Industry or through the Ministry of Industry and Trade an investment incentive in the form of tax discounts of CZK 81.6 million. And there are a number of other companies and other companies that draw funds, PENAM, for example, Research Institute of Organic Synthesizers - it is here many times, Center of Organic Chemistry - a total of CZK 33 million and so on and so on. I'd hold off on that for a very long time. GEMOS CZ, spol. s. r. o., and other companies, it makes you wonder. CS CABOT - drawing discount on taxes of CZK 94 million, Lovochemie, ceiling of public support of CZK 591 million, PENAM CZK 155 million, PRECHEZA, a. s., 289 million CZK, PREOL CZK 46.9 million, these are all public support ceilings, drawing discounts on taxes that have been agreed. And I wanted to know if they really are drawing on how much has already been exhausted for the Minister to answer that, because in another part of the Czech Republic, the Prime Minister's conflict of interest has led to a halt in the payment of subsidies to agricultural aid applicants. I quote this rather than saying anything else than what it really is - I quote from the media: "Despite the fact that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš constantly repeats in the media that the consequences of conflicts of interest, as confirmed several times by EU institutions, cannot have any impact on the use of European subsidies, the real reality proves the opposite. The State Agricultural Intervention Fund, which distributes financial support to agriculture in the Czech Republic, suspended certain programmes, for example under the title of a starting young farmer, due to this conflict of interest.' And I quote from the material sent by the State Agricultural Intervention Fund to the applicants for subsidies: "The European Commission - Directorate-General for Agriculture and Rural Development - is carrying out an audit investigation against the Rural Development Programme of the Czech Republic for the period 2014 to 2020 which is not yet completed and which is the subject of the functioning of the established management and control systems in order to avoid conflicts of interest. In its current developments and conclusions, the European Commission notes the contradiction of Mr Ing's current situation. Andrej Babiš as a public official providing subsidies to the projects of companies from Agrofert, a. s. pursuant to § 4c of Law No. 159/2006 Sb., on conflicts of interest, as amended and with Art. 61 of Regulation (EU) 2018/1046 of the European Parliament and of the Council," SZIF notes, stating that the reimbursement of the relevant subsidies may take place only after examination of the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister. The suspension of payment of subsidies probably affected those who purchased machines or technologies from one of the companies belonging to the Prime Minister's holding as part of the implementation of the project under the Rural Development Programme. I'll try to explain. A small start-up farmer asked for a grant, fulfilled the conditions, bought a machine from a company belonging to Agrofert holding, paid the machine, but the State Agricultural Intervention Fund suspended funding, which put the farmer in a tight position. For one thing, he may not have had a chance to know that such a company, from which he buys the machine, belongs at all to the Prime Minister's holding company, and gets into economically absurd situations where he doesn't really know what to do with it. This concerns dozens of small private farmers who have been suspended in this way. [[9.50 hours]] And so I wonder if the Ministry of Industry and Trade will do the same in the case of the large ones, because the situation is as follows: just as in agriculture, and the Minister replied to this, there is some prefinancing on the basis of an honest statement, I quote the Minister: "Since the acquisition of the activity of the amendment of Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, of 1. 9. In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended.' So all they have to do is make an honest statement and money goes to the MIT in the case of large firms, whereas, in the case of small firms that do not own any such structure, they have no chance to know if they purchased the respective machines and equipment from Agrofert in the tender procedure, so that funding is stopped. I think it's a serious matter. This opens up the question in the future, because if the Prime Minister finally finds himself in a conflict of interest and is in conflict of interest, then it will mean that all the subsidies that are financed from the European Union under the support programmes will have to be recovered. This means not only funding from the European Union, but it will also be an obligation to repay the funds coming from the budget of the Czech Republic as a co-financing of these aids, because if this did not happen, we are in breach of contracts with the European Union and, at the same time, we are in violation of the rules of certification of individual programmes as approved. I don't think I have a chance anymore. I think Minister Havlíček knows why he's not here at the moment. It is the last chance to ask the ministers within the framework of written interpelations, although in interpelations in general, because there are elections ahead of us. I'm sorry. I think that, if the Minister has a clear conscience, he should have been here to answer the questions of why we have a double approach to drawing European money in order to assess the Prime Minister's conflict of interest. Once this is not the case if it is small farmers, once it is the case if it is large stock companies, there is no problem with drawing subsidies and granting tax relief. It is a question of what will happen next, but there is a certain significant degree of risk that this will eventually affect the whole sector with the effects, and at the moment that the funds will have to be returned, the damage will be several times higher than if such financial transfers had not occurred. Mr President, I will not propose interruptions because it does not make sense, after the elections the Chamber of Deputies will meet here in a different composition and will start completely with a clean table, but I promise that if I have the opportunity, I will ask again and I think that given what we have learned or what has been answered, it is worth asking what financial support goes from other administrators or paying agencies within other ministries, how much support goes from the Ministry of Agriculture, from the Ministry of Agriculture and so on, because I think that such an extreme conflict of interest threatens the existence of the Czech Republic and its normal functioning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u11	Thank you. So let's move on to another interpellation. In the meantime, I'll read two more apologies. Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today between 9 and 11.30 for work reasons and the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes for urgent work reasons today and tomorrow throughout the meeting day. So there's another interpellation. Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman responded to the interview of Members of Petr Bendl on the transfer of powers of state property management between the companies Forests of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, and Military forests and goods, state enterprise. Interpelation, together with the reply, shall be submitted as a House press of 1269. I am opening the debate and reporting, I presume, Mr Petr Bendl. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, here I am in a similar situation, which is no less serious. The government has very recently taken note of transfers of management to state assets at a level of 70,000 hectares. The property that was managed by the Military Forests and Farms, part of it, is transferred to the Forests of the Czech Republic. Just to give you an idea, it's a territory about the size of the Kladno district or the district of the Prague East. So much of a problem is that I believe that it should become the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence for discussion not only at the level of the government, where the government only took note of this material, but we were to discuss it and we are to discuss it at least at the level of the agricultural committee, rather at the level of the meeting of the entire Chamber of Deputies, because the effects of this transfer are not small, but strangely no economic analyses have been processed, neither the estimates of the property nor the Ministry of Defence have been processed, nor the Ministry of Agriculture has dealt with the economic effects of this move. The Minister of Agriculture has said several times publicly that it is because they want to concentrate the solution to the problem of barking to better face it, and the Minister of Defence said that the SAO pointed out to him that they were managing assets that had nothing to do with the Czech Army's strategy anymore, so they solved it this way. I took the job and devoted myself in detail to the entire transaction and the conditions that I thought were the people responsible for the management of businesses, whether it be the Forests of the Czech Republic or the Military Forests and Farms, so the equally responsible people at the Ministry of Agriculture should know and know, because according to the State Enterprise Act, the government should decide on such transfer, not take note, first of all. Secondly, I am amazed that there has never been any discussion of this in any of the strategic materials or in the debates on the annual report on the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic or the annual report on the management of the Military Forests and Goods. [[10.00 hours]] Experts are waving their heads because the real basis for this relocation of huge assets makes sense, especially at a time when the price of wood rises in an extreme way, so the economic effects of such a decision should definitely interest us. And when I studied - because the Military Forests and Farms don't go with their annual report to the Committee on Agriculture, but the Security Committee goes to the gate - I also tried to find out if this matter was mentioned anywhere in any strategic material. I quote from the annual report of 2019, which is the only one publicly posted as the latest on the pages of the Military Forests and Goods. I quote the parts relating to the division Mimoň, which actually has to be cancelled, and the territories to be taken care of in the future by the Forests of the Czech Republic, will therefore be transferred or this intention is, this is to 1. 1st next year to do. And I quote - the Mimoň division: "Division manages 26,642 hectares of forest land. The whole area of Ralska is valued in terms of nature conservation, when a significant part has been declared CHKO since autumn 2014 Kokořínsko - The Doke part is part of the NATURA 2000 system and the forest park Bezděz. [[The noise in the hall, the cell phone ringing, is on call.]] Outside the Břehyně National Park, the Swamp National Park is located on an area of 234 hectares. Given the considerable pyrotechnic load... [[It is turning towards the President.]] May I ask you, Mr President, if you would like a telephone caller's colleague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bendl has the floor in his interview, and I will therefore ask the House for peace and debate on a subject other than the subject of the interpelation, please to the front. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u14	In addition to the Mimoň Division. Due to the significant pyrotechnic load of the area, the organisation has its own pyrotechnic unit which performs pyrotechnical cleaning before mining in the forest and at the same time performs pyrotechnic surveillance during construction work. There is a logical question here for the Minister of Agriculture, namely the management of the Forests of the Czech Republic, whether they count on having to have their bomb squad or whether the forest is clean enough to allow the public to enter the territory of the Forests of the Czech Republic, as is the case elsewhere, without fear. If by any chance this is not a general threat, because the fact that the bombing or ammunition is there is also stated in the annual reports of the Military Forests and Goods, and this territory is to become the territory of the Forests of the Czech Republic. There's a whole bunch of other doubts. I will read only to not just say it for myself, because there will certainly be someone here commenting that Bendl is saying this because there are elections, so I will read the opinion of trade unions operating at the Forests of the Czech Republic, state enterprise, exchange of forest complexes with the Military Forests and Farms of the Czech Republic, state enterprise: "The trade union organizations operating at the Forests fundamentally disagree with the implementation of a large exchange of forest property with the Military Forests and Farms. The whole transaction is already presented in a way, but rather stubborn silence and fog gives rise to a number of question marks over its true purpose. According to the available information, it is to be transferred by the Forests about 41 000 hectares of mostly forest land and by the Military Forests the transfer of about 32 000 hectares, also mainly forest land. With this property, all infrastructure such as forest roads, water, buildings and other buildings needed to manage these assets should also be transferred, but also small watercourses and other waterworks including water tanks. At market value, this represents multi-billion-dollar assets. I note that no estimates have been made. The simple difference in the area of land without taking into account the additional infrastructure of about 8,500 hectares in favour of the Forests of the Czech Republic represents a difference of at least 2 billion in the market valuation. And that's just one of the many points that should be explained. Other serious arguments for opposition are further mentioned. One. Why should the forests of the Czech Republic, s. p., be transferred to the Military Forests and Farms as well as large measures from existing forest plants? In the case of the Boubín Forest Plant, it is 7 000 hectares, in the case of Konopiště by 4 500 hectares, but also the forest plant and the forest plant Židlochovice are affected, almost 900 hectares, when not even a year and a half have passed since the extensive organizational changes, when the forest plant was enlarged, in parentheses, not to mention about half a year from the last organizational change so far by the abolition of flow management, regional directorates and the emergence of regional directorates with reasons for the need to enlarge the territory managed by its own means of production and its own trade without dependence on complex forestry contracts. Another argument. The realization of the exchange would practically mean the demise of the forest farm Bučovice, from which it would be about 11 000 hectares less, but also the output from other forest management would necessarily result in further organizational changes, when the previous company did not recover from the forest of the Czech Republic. Three. Why does the Department of Defense need such extensive forest assets when there has never been any historical defence interests in these territories? Are we going to expand the military training areas here in great numbers when we have witnessed the exact opposite for the past 30 years? Four. For what reason were preparations made for this shift in absolute secrecy? Why did the heads of the organizational units concerned not have the opportunity to comment sufficiently in advance on this intention? This also applies to the Military Forests and Farms, p. p., where everything was kept under wraps until the last moment. The result will be complete chaos and break the logical links that have been built for years with the aim of the most effective management of state property. Five. The official joint press release of the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Agriculture, presented on their web pages by the Forests of the Czech Republic and the Military Forests and Farms, where the main reason is to make the fight with the barking tree more effective, only a smile is given to the forestry public. The fact that both state companies are not able to elaborate and present the main reason, i.e. in which it will be more advantageous for both parties, only reinforces the suspicion that there is something completely different behind it. Six. So far, no one from the management is communicating with trade unions, although this transaction is likely to have effects on hundreds of employees. With the intention of the land exchange, the President was informed on 31. 5. 2021. There is talk of transparency in a given step, but it is just a declaration that has nothing to do with reality. Until the time of the public defending the real reason for this exchange and the subsequent proper discussion of stakeholders, including trade unions, we ask for the suspension of its implementation. Furthermore, we ask that, in the event of the conclusion of the contract, the obligation should be enshrined in the case where the property becomes permanently unnecessary for the acquirer, it shall be transferred to the Forests of the Czech Republic free of charge or to the Military Forests and Farms." So much for quoting the opinion of trade unions working at the Forests of the Czech Republic on the whole issue. That's just weird. Basically, none of the experts can really name what's going on here. Is this about chasing? Because, as we know, in the regime of Military Forests and Goods, chasing works quite differently than in the regime of operation of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Or is it someone's private interests that we can't see into at this point? [[10.10 hours]] The fact that he's at least on the edge, in my opinion, rather behind the edge, as it was decided, whether the wording of the State Enterprise Act - rather helps speculate that something is going on here that is not right, which may have a goal. But given how quickly everything went without discussion, and I stress again, it is property the size of the territory of one district, so the Minister of Agriculture and the Minister of Defence cannot be surprised that we are interpelling them in this matter and we want concrete information on why what is happening and what are the real reasons for these huge changes. I wasn't the only one who intersected the ministers and the Prime Minister. My colleague, Černochová, has intersected the Minister of Defence. Unfortunately, the interpelation is not going to get here now, but it is on the website of the Chamber of Deputies and it is possible to get acquainted with it. My colleague Martin Kupka intersected the Prime Minister on this matter, as the Ministry of Agriculture, in turn, announced further tender for logging in about one-sixth of the territory of the Forests of the Czech Republic. There, as is known, the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister is just there, and the company Uniles, which is an important mining company, has its roots today in Agrofert - thus all of this together and the way it was discussed, the secrecy of those things, the non-negotiation of the forums to which it definitely belongs, makes it doubt that it is a reasonable decision that it is more a cui bono, in what way does it benefit? And there's one more thing I have to mention here, because even the chase-- we still don't know what happened here with the hunting law. The government majority had the resistance to hunting law at all, although we have huge problems in the woods, and the chasing and the way to deal with the situation of the damage done by the abundant animals are and remain a topic, and the future Chamber of Deputies will have to deal with it. When I looked at the individual proposals, how the exchange is actually taken into account by the government and promoted by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Defence, then I have to say that there are some territorial transfers absolutely illogical. It's not visible, but if you're interested, I can prove it. I live near Křivoklát, which is why I'm close to the territory. There in one part beside each other before the shift existed both the Military Forests and Farms, which operated the division Hořovice, the Forest Administration Nouzov, and the Forests of the Czech Republic, which operated the Forest Administration Křivoklát. I'm referring to a territory in which the military never had any interest, there was nothing there, where you've never seen a soldier's foot. So the assets are to be moved into the management of Military Forests and Property, but not all of it. There are two bites, completely illogical territorial units, which remain the les of the Czech Republic. [[He's showing the map.]] Let me see if I can see it, I have to go on camera like this: where this territory, this little one, is going to stay in the woods of the Czech Republic and this is going to be owned or managed by the Military Forests. It's also across the street, it's still part of the territory, absolutely illogical, uneconomic in my opinion, change that doesn't make sense, but maybe it's giving someone. And that's what I wanted to work my way through today's interview, and I wanted to convince the Minister of Agriculture to stop these changes until a really wise analysis of what the military forests really need is done. If it is not logical that at a time when the army's interest - because I think this is the main reason for the existence of Military Forests and Goods - the interest of the army is shrinking in the Czech Republic, it would seem logical to me that, where the military no longer wants and will not have to use pyrotechnics - I am stressing this here and that is also something that I am extremely interested in whether those bomb squads are still there in Mimoni or not - then it is probably logical for such assets to move into the economy and increase the economic units of the Forests of the Czech Republic. Maybe, maybe not. But it is necessary to talk to those involved, it means forest farmers, not only management and business management, it feels like they are under pressure from the wishes of the Ministry of Defense and the Ministry of Agriculture and who knows who else, because it's just not normal. And if we go back to that and look at it on principle, then, yeah, maybe some of the territories that are so-called clean from the point of view of the bomb squad and the soldiers don't need them anymore, so why not? But why did we avoid this debate? After all, I can still mention one thing I think is not quite negligible, which concerns the Mimoň division. Because it is not only the old unexploded ammunition, but in the annual report 2019, in the section Forest Protection there is a part that mentions the division Mimoň, and I am not sure that the forests of the Czech Republic will like it economically, but maybe it doesn't matter: "The climatic occurrence of a significant pest of cultures and new plantings of ponrovs of Hungarian cranberries is monitored on the forest land Lipník near the Mimoň division in the long term. Corrosion was detected at 3,500 hectares and weak geraniums at 500 hectares. On the LHC Lipník there are both main strains of cranberries known in the Czech Republic. On the part of Lipník, approx. 3,000 hectares, there is a long-term monitoring of the swarm strain in 2004, 2008, 2012, 2016. In 2019 there were ponravas of crunches in the third instar and the damage culminated and in 2020 there will be a very strong swarm again," says the report from 2019. I'm afraid I don't have a newer one. Therefore, it is also often the territory that is attacked by pests, which have so far dealt with the Military Forests and Farms by some kind of struggle with those pests, which are many in the Czech Republic, and I cannot judge whether they are fighting well or not. However, in the debate on the transfer of such land, there must also be an economic and factual debate on what it will actually mean for the management of the Forests. [[10.20 hours]] And then I have another little comment that actually has something to do with it, because there's a transfer of land on Křivokláta. I don't understand it anymore, because I'm driving around the Lánské obora and I see the impact of the bark tree in the Lánské obora, and the president's office, which takes care of this area at 5 700 hectares - under the forest management - is supposed to be able to get another 700 hectares now, because 5 700 hectares is not enough, so the next chase is supposed to go under - I wanted to ask the minister - to go under the President's office. This concerns the flow of Glass and the separate pheasant Amalia in the sand area (?). I wanted to, when these shifts are already taking place, to rather look for space for our secondary forestry schools. In the past, I even had it ready to get so-called overhead hounds at their disposal, so that the new foresters who are preparing for these schools had a chance to work with the forest, hunting work, a chance to learn something, and a chance to work. [[getting in touch]] That's when I wanted those high schools to have some territory. It's something like this that's being offered. I don't think the President needs another chase. I think maybe some of them want it in the President's office. But I wish the president good health, and I'm not quite sure he staged it himself. I'd rather have this kind of chase, since we're talking about transfers of management, make a lot more sense in a high school forestry school than in a presidential office that has 5 700 hectares at its disposal. Mr President, I will not ask for an interruption until the Minister's presence, because I hope that the Minister will not be here anymore, as I hope that Minister Havlíček will not be here anymore. But I am even more sorry that, of course, I would rather discuss this change on the farm committee. The fact that we were bypassed and we were hugged, I consider it a foul not to us, but to the entire agricultural sector and the forestry sector, which now and daily works for the cultivation of state property, nature conservation and, of course, economic indicators, because we will need a lot of money for what the pests have done to us here. And the financial resources left behind from past governments are gone. Thank you for your attention. And perhaps in better times... I would certainly like us to return to this topic after the elections, stop this transfer and build it on stronger arguments than what the Ministry of Agriculture calls today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl for his speech. No motion has been filed, the interpellation is over. Before we continue, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, apologizing to Mr Krejza for today's negotiations, and apologize to Mrs Andrea Babišová for health reasons, and to Jiří Valenta for work reasons. We will now continue with further interpelations, and these are the interpelations of Lubomír Volný, who intersected Minister Jan Hamáček. I note that, under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if the Member is absent, the interpelation is failing. I would now open an interpellation according to the House's press of 1277. My colleague Lubomír is not Volný, so the interpellation is failing. Another interview by Lubomír Volný is also made to the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček and it is a print of 1278. I still don't see Lubomír Volný. I'm saying he's not excused, so I'm gonna read it individually if he shows up, so maybe there's still an interpellation. Interpellation 1278 is failing. Another interview by Lubomír Volný is on Andrej Babiš, press 1279, the MP is not present, the interview is failing. Another press is 1280, again the interpellation of Lubomír Volný on Andrej Babiš, the MP is still not present, the interpelation is failing. Another interpelation is press 1281, intersecting Lubomír Volný to Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová, also failing. Another interview by Lubomír Volný is on Andrej Babiš, the Prime Minister, according to press 1282. This one, too, is failing. We are coming to the next page of the interview, and there is another interview of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, press 1283, also failing. Now the interview under press 1284, again Lubomír Volný, to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, also fails. And the next interpelation is printing 1285. Mr Lubomír Volný has again intersected the Prime Minister. Interpellation is also failing. Another interview is press 1286, again Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the interpelation is failing. Another intervention is the interpelation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister according to the press 1287, also failing, will not be discussed. The Prime Minister has been intersected by another interview by Lubomír Volný in press 1288 and this interpelation is failing because the Volný Member is still not present. Another press is 1289, again Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, also this interpelation is failing. And here we are at the press of 1290, that again is the interview of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and also failing. Press 1291, interpellation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister on questions of citizens, is also failing. Press 1292, once again Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister on citizens' questions, is also failing. Even the press 1293 is the same and Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister, also failing. Mr Lubomír Volný has also intersected in the press 1294 the Prime Minister, still not present, also failing. Another press is the press 1295, when Lubomír Volný interpelled the Prime Minister, also in questions of citizens, this interpelation is failing. Another press is 1296, it is also an interpellation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister on the disease COVID-19, also failing. And 1297, the same intersecting Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in the field of service, is also failing. 1298, Lubomír Volný has intersected the Prime Minister on the matter of pandemic emergency, also failing for the absence of a Member. Just as press 1299, when Lubomír Volný intersected the Prime Minister in relation to the disease COVID-19. And we are at the number 1300 of the House press, where Lubomír Volný once again intersected the Prime Minister on vaccination, also failing for absence. And press 1301 is also printing the interpellation of Lubomír Volný to the Prime Minister, and this is members of foreign armies in the territory of the Czech Republic, also failing. [[10.30 hours]] Print 1302 is an interpellation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš about conflict of interest - he is also failing. Another interview by Lubomír Volný on COVID-19's disease against Prime Minister, Press 1303, and Interpelation is also failing. Another intervention by Lubomír Volný to the Prime Minister is printing 1305, and this is a question of public authority measures - effectively preventing the spread of COVID-19 disease, also failing. Another intervention is an interpelation under press 1306 by Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister on the retreat of COVID-19 disease, also failing. Another interpellation of Lubomír Volný to the Prime Minister is the second written interpellation in the case of Zejdov Zejdův, also failing. As well as printing 1308 - Interpellation of Lubomír Volný to the Prime Minister on the used means to combat COVID-19 disease. We have a press of 1309 - Interpellation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on COVID-19, also failing for the absence of Mr Volný. Lubomír Liber Volný of Prime Minister is again in press 1310 on the difficult situation of the Magistry - also failing. With regard to press 1312, it is an interpellation of Lubomír Volný in the case of disease COVID-19 to the Prime Minister - he is also failing. Lubomír Volný also intersected the Prime Minister in interpelation, House Press 1313. They are compensation for damage after vaccination - they also fail. The same is true of the press 1314, when Lubomír Volný intersected the Prime Minister on foreign public power in the Czech Republic - this also falls due to the absence of an Interpelling Member. It is also the case with press 1315 when Lubomír was volný to interpel the Prime Minister on the functionality of vaccines against COVID-19. And here we are at press 1316, again Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister on vaccination, determination of antibody levels - also failing. The next print is 1317. Lubomír Volný has intersected the Prime Minister on epidemics and benefits - this interpelation is also failing. We are also in this situation in the press 1318 when Lubomír Volný intersected the Prime Minister on the Berušek Kindergarten in Frýdek Místek. Print 1319 is an interpellation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš with the topic of BNT162b2 - it is also undergoing this interpelation. The press 1320 is the interpelation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Czech Republic - this interpelation is also failing. And we're at press 1321. Lubomír Volný has intersected Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in the case of vaccines against COVID-19 disease - it also fails. Similarly, we are at the press of 1322, when Lubomír Volný intersected Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on questions of citizens about the patented SARS-CoV-2 virus. Lubomír Volný also intervened in the interpelation of 1323 Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in the case of sculptor Karla Vobišová-Žáková. Also this interpelation propa... No, it doesn't. A colleague of Mr. Volný has arrived. Here we are. A colleague of Mr. Volný has arrived, so this is his interpelation according to press 1323 and it is therefore the fate of the work of the first Czech professional sculptor Karla Vobišová-Žáková. [[Question L. Free off the microphone.]] That's for the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is duly excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u16	Hello. So I'm asking you to interrupt this interpellation until the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u17	Okay. Since everyone else is on the Prime Minister's side, I'm gonna ask the House if we can do the vote at once, if that's okay? There is no one objecting, so we will deal with further interpelling, and this is the interpelation of Lubomír Volný to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš about the question of citizens - information for citizens of the Czech Republic on vaccination against disease COVID-19, House press 1326. My colleague Volný suggests? [[Communication outside the microphone with the President.]] Suddenly? If you design it. Of course, I'm not responsible for your...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u18	Again, I propose an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u19	Okay. In that case, I am opening an interview under press 1327 by Mr Lubomír Volný to the President on vaccination of Czech citizens in Slovakia with blood: plasma and blood donation after vaccination with mRNA vaccines. So, what about this interpellation, Mr. Ambassador?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u20	Again delay to the presence of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u21	Okay. So I'm going to open print 1328, and this is an interpellation of Lubomír Volný in the case of discrimination against people who have had laboratory antibodies measured against COVID-19 disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u22	I request an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u23	Okay, thank you. And we're at the House press of 1329. Mr Lubomír Volný here has interrogated the Prime Minister on questions of citizens of the Czech Republic - disease COVID-19.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u24	I also ask for an interruption to the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u25	And here we have your last interview, press 1330, and it is Mrs. Vlastimila Bartošová's difficult life situation, 75 years old, and the exemplary failure of the justice and social system of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u26	I suggest we interrupt until the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u27	Okay, thank you. In that case, I'll go for it. I shall ask the President or Vice-President of the Members' Clubs to secure the relevant numbers of Members. I'll wait. Just a minute. [[After a while.]] Following the appearance of Mr Lubomír Volný in the courtroom, he proposed to interrupt the Prime Minister's deliberations with the Prime Minister on his intercession with the Prime Minister according to press 1323, 1326, 1327, 1328, 1329 and 1330. Yes? [[Agreed.]] [[10.40 hours]] We will vote on this proposal in vote number 93. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 93, out of 78 for 24, against no one. The motion was not accepted. So these interpelations, anyway, will be the subject of the next written interpelations if they occur next week, if there is a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and we can discuss them. This has exhausted the programme of intercession and, according to the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, we continue at 11 a.m. at the earliest, i.e. interrupting the meeting by 11 a.m. Yes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we should now focus on points 16 to 19 of the block of contracts in second reading and, consequently, on points from the block of the report, proposals and more. These are points 84, 88, 96, 102, 103, 114, 118, 123, 124, 130, 134, 137, 146, 152 and 162. In the afternoon, we'd be dealing with item 201, which is oral questioning. Now I have some applications to change the show. As the first Mrs Olga Sommerová, I ask her to take the floor and make her proposal. Please, madam. And I ask my colleagues to stay calm! We're starting to act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The Election Committee approved the resolution last week on 7 September and recommended our plan to withdraw Ms Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council. In view of the topicality of this point and following the resolution of the electoral committee, I propose the inclusion of the point of appeal by Mrs Hana Lipovská of the Czech Television Council for a period after the end of oral interventions as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u30	Thank you. That was a proposal for a new point. Now, please, Mr Dolínek. Or does the secretary want to respond with priority rights? [[He doesn't want to.]] Okay. Mr Dolínek, then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u31	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I have a proposal for a solid inclusion of paragraph 36, House press 912, the Railway Act to be discussed tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. The petitioner, the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, discussed this point with the senators, and if the law were discussed, much of the amendments will of course not be recommended tomorrow, so that the standard that is important to the railways can pass and can pass through the Senate. This means that it is pre-negotiated so that it is a law that will not complicate anything, and there is a commitment both for the petitioner and for others, that amendments that could complicate this law against the Senate will not be voted out. So I'm asking for indulgence and for the ninth place tomorrow as a solid point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u32	So tomorrow Friday's the first point. Yeah, 9:00. Now, Madam Secretary, and I see Mr Volný. So, Madam Secretary, as a Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development very much in particular, because yesterday, it discussed very carefully the amendment of the budget of the State Investment Support Fund due to the payment of people to their homes affected by the tornado. The government approved a 1.4 billion increase. We discussed the budget yesterday. I would like to ask you very much to include this item firmly tomorrow at 11 a.m., House press 1335, change in the budget of the State Investment Support Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u34	Madam Secretary, this item is not yet in the meeting, so we will first include it in the meeting and then, if necessary, vote on a firm inclusion. Mr Válek now wanted to speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly: based on whether I correctly understood the agreement from the Gremia - he is not the President of the Faltýnek - but I think we have agreed on this because there will be a lot of points to discuss, which has happened that we will reduce the discussion to twice 10 minutes. Therefore, I propose that the points included in this meeting be shortened to twice 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u36	Thank you for the suggestion. First I'll comment and then I'll give priority rights. I see the applications. To vote on shortening the debate or speaking time should always be at that point. It's a bit over the line this flat, so if there are no objections, I would reject this proposal, but of course I'm gonna be directing it, and we can always vote on it at the beginning of every point. I see Mr. Kubíček has withdrawn his application. Mrs Valachová wants priority rights? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to support the proposal made by Klára Dostálová to change the investment fund for the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. It is absolutely crucial for continuing payouts towards the people of South Moravia and the municipalities affected by the tornado, so I am very much asking for support and joining this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u38	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u39	Thank you. I propose the inclusion of a new point - the appeal of the Czech Television Council. I suggest you place it firmly today. If the appeal point is placed by Councilwoman Lipovská, then as the second point right after this point. If Mrs Lipovská's appeal is not included, the first point will be the place of this point. And then I propose to include in the agenda a meeting on the extradition of Mr Lubomír Volný to prosecute. Again, I propose to include it as a third point today, if the point on Mrs Lipovská is approved and if the point on the appeal of the Czech Television Council is approved. If these previous points are not approved, then, alternatively, the first or second point of the after-interpelation hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u40	Okay. I think I've noticed. We shall vote first on the inclusion in the meeting, then, where appropriate, on a firm inclusion. That's five suggestions. Anyone else reporting? Mr. Lipavský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u41	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm allowing myself to propose a point number 11 fixed today at 12.45 o'clock. It's a senate return, a law on teaching workers. Today at 12.45, yesterday was missed. It's two votes. If anyone doesn't agree with the law, then show it in the vote, don't give the teachers money, but let's vote it out. It'd be a shame if it fell under the table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-16-ps2017-118-03-001-200.u42	Thank you. I mean, today's tight 12.45 hours, the law on teaching staff, which is point 12, if I've noticed correctly... 11. There was more. I'm gonna have to be patient for a minute to get this place ready. In the meantime, I think it would be a good idea for all colleagues to come to the O.R. Thank you. I think we can vote on the individual proposals in the order that they have been made. First of all, it is Mrs Sommerová's proposal to include a new point, the appeal of Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council. First, we will vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda. I believe everyone knows what we're voting on. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. If no one objects any more, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 94, 112 Members and Members of Parliament, for 40, against 14. The point hasn't been included. So we won't be voting on solid inclusion anymore. [[11.10 hours]] Now, therefore, Mr Dolínek's proposal to include paragraph 36, House Press 912, as the first item on Friday. It's the Railway Act. I think it's obvious. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 95, 117 Members of Parliament and Members are signed in for 104, against no one. This proposal has been adopted, so we will deal with it on Friday. Now, the proposal by Minister and Mrs Dostálová to include the Investment Fund point. So first, we will vote on the inclusion of this item on the agenda. I think we all know what it's gonna be about. Initiating vote number 96. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 96, 119 Members and Members are registered, for 115, against no one. So now we are going to vote on solid inclusion, and that was said if I have good information, Friday at 11 o'clock. So now we're going to vote on this solid inclusion. Initiating vote. I said, who's up for a solid Friday at 11:00? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 97, 118 Members and Members are registered, for 96, against no one. This proposal has been adopted, so we will also deal with it on Friday. And now there are Mr Volný's proposals. As the first classification of the new point of the Revocation of the Czech Television Council. So that's a new point. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 98, 119 Members and Members of Parliament shall be voted in favour of 3, against 31. So we will no longer be dealing with this point. And then there was a proposal to include negotiations on the extradition of Mr Lubomír Volný. This was also proposed by the Volný Member. This item is already on the agenda if I am not mistaken, so we are going to vote on a solid inclusion. And given the way the proposals were made, as well as the first point after oral questioning. Initiating vote. I'm asking, who's up for this point? Voting number 99. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 99, 118 Members are registered, for 4, against 16. Even this fixed classification did not pass. And now there is still Mr Lipavský proposal, and that is to say, Friday, if I have noted this well... [[Voices from the diaper: No, today, Thursday at 12.45.]] No, Thursday? Thursday at 12:45 p.m. to include item number 11, the law on teaching staff. Initiating vote number 100 and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 100, 118 Members and Members are registered, for 42, against no one. Nor has this proposal been adopted. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] This has dealt with all the proposals and we can continue the negotiations under the approved programme. So now it's time for those international treaties at second reading. First up, it's a point number.
