ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 452/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications and on the Amendment to the Consumer Protection Act, as amended /German press 989/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I therefore point out that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please, Minister, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a government proposal which has been drawn up in connection with the fulfilment of our country's legislative obligations arising from EU membership and amending one of the laws governing industrial property rights. The text of the Act on the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and on the amendment of the Consumer Protection Act, as amended, is adapted by this proposal to the Regulation of the European Parliament of the Union following the accession to the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement on designations of origin and geographical indications and to other Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council which affect the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications under exclusive Union competence. This law also reflects the conclusions set out in the judgment of the Court of Justice that the so-called double-track protection of designations of origin and geographical indications must be removed where such a designation is provided by Union law. The national arrangements for the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications of agricultural products, foodstuffs, including wine and spirits, for which the protection of designations of origin is regulated by several directly applicable EU rules, are hereby repealed. The draft law also reflects the fact that the accession of the European Union to the Geneva Act makes it possible to obtain international and Union protection for legally registered labels, while the proposed regulation assumes that the Czech Republic will accede to the Geneva Act of the Lisbon Agreement. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The draft law shall also specify the time limits for the submission of an application for Union registration and requests for international registration in order to allow applications to be processed in a timely manner. In addition to these amendments, this proposal contains even minor legislative and technical adaptations. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this material. The reason for this is to ensure that the rights of users of existing national designations of origin and geographical indications are protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, and this is Mrs Květa Matušovská. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I'd like you to meet my press release, 989. The Czech Republic, as has already been said here, has been a member of the Lisbon Agreement since 1966. In 2015, this Geneva Act was modernised. The subject matter of the Geneva Act and the Act on the Protection of Designations of Origin and Geographical Indications, which is the name of the area, is a place; it allows for the protection of products having characteristic characteristics associated with that territory, their quality or characteristics of goods characterised by natural and human factors. Products are protected against abuse and their exclusivity is maintained. The proposal comes to the continuation of protection of designations of origin, geographical indications for traditional Czech products. It has so far been protected by the Lisbon Agreement. If the Czech Republic does not accede to the revised version as soon as possible, that means the Geneva Act and does not request registration of the traditional designation under the Geneva Act, it will have the following consequences: 1. The international protection of Czech labels will cease with the members of the countries of the Lisbon Agreement. 2. There will be no international protection in the countries of the Geneva Act. 3. In the future, the label will only be protected in the territory of the members of the Geneva Act, not in the countries of the Lisbon Agreement. It is, for example, a designation such as Budějovický Budvar, Zatecký hop, Pardubický methník or, for example, a cherry carp. The required tasks should be carried out in a timely manner. Domestic producers and small enterprises must be informed in advance and have sufficient time to prepare the relevant applications. In the event of non-compliance with the withdrawal periods, their protection could also expire. It is essential for the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal during this period. The proposed proposal is in the interests of Czech farmers and food producers, as it ensures the protection of their products at international level. The Government also proposes to approve the draft law at first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. President Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting for the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u6	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for the description, a comprehensive description of this bill. I agree with the rapporteur that the aim - our common - is to approve this during this parliamentary term. We're only in March. However, I do not think that we should apply § 90 para. 2, so allow me, on behalf of the two ODS and TOP 09, to raise the veto, but at the same time to propose that we reduce the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days. In no way will the reception be compromised, we are somewhere around 10 April and we can discuss second reading at the meeting. I consider this useful, because the debate can also bring some concrete amendments. So consider it a veto, but at the same time a proposal to shorten the deadline between first and second reading to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-002-056.u7	Thank you. The veto sounded, so we will not deal with this proposal in accordance with § 90 para. 2 and, at the same time, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline to 30 days, which we will vote on after the decision on the commandment to the committees. We are in a general debate. Is anyone else reporting for the general debate, please? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. And now we're going to deal with the draft of the commandment... Excuse me, are you interested in the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur? No. [[17.30 hours]] We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? He's not suggesting. Meanwhile, I have called Members and Members to the Chamber to vote. We shall vote on the commandment to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. I think we're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 181, 87 Members signed in for 78, against no one. We have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to be discussed by the next Committee. Does anyone else suggest that this proposal be dealt with? He's not suggesting. So we will now vote on President Stanjura's motion to reduce the deadline to 30 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 182, 87 Members signed in for 78, against no one. We've approved the motion. The deadline was approved. I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this point. Now we're going to go with point number
