ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u1	12. Members of Jakub Michálek, Jaroslav Faltýnek, Jan Farský, Tomio Okamura and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws /German press 390/ - second reading Mr Jakub Michálek will state the proposal and is ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a second reading of the draft law of the amendment to the Constitution, which introduces a so-called slippery mandate. I think that, in the context of this long discussion, because the proposal was submitted in February 2019, we have long been in agreement that we would be leaning towards the so-called Austrian model, or the voluntary option of a member of the government to use a slippery mandate. The proposal was submitted as a parliamentary proposal across a number of clubs, including YES, SPD, Pirates, Mayors and so on, so I think that even in this process it was possible to reach a solution that was consensual, which was recommended by both the constitutional and legal committee, as well as the mandate and immune committee, as well as the Czech Constitution Committee, which recommended that the third reading be included in the first quarter of this year, which unfortunately did not happen, so in some way we are shortening the time for discussion in the Senate or the so-called boat procedure if there were any reservations. However, I think that, in the form in which the proposal is prepared, it concerns only Members, so I believe that the Senate will also be generous to this proposal and that it will succeed in promoting it in the Senate. So there will be no proposals other than what has been read in the Committees, here they will not be presented from my side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u3	Thank you. The proposal was therefore ordered at first reading to discuss the constitutional and legal committee, as has already been said, as a committee of guarantee and the press also discussed the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution and the mandate and immune committee. The resolution of the committees and the Permanent Commission was delivered as House prints 390/2 to 5. Now, I would ask the President of the Constitutional Commission, Mrs Valachová, if she is present - or if anyone else on the committee, it is a second reading, we do not have to vote on it, Mrs Válková will take it for her - to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u4	I confess that you are now witnessing that I will hunt in my no longer completely perfect memory. I know that we have discussed this press, that it is very important, and I very much remember the development of those opinions, including my opinion. The klouzavý mandate, I certainly do not want to repeat itself, we must anchor in the form in which it is best for our Czech Republic, and especially the Czech constitutional order, and finally we have agreed - and now the rapporteur has also told me and I have refreshed my memory, I hope in the right direction - about the Austrian model, but I am unable to present the details from the counter, compare, make some comparison so that I can convince you that it is the best model. In any case, what I can say convincingly, because we do not take on the Austrian model - and it is not even possible - one in one: it is important that the moving mandate allows a certain will of the Minister's decision, to what extent it will only take part in the government, or if it takes on the burden that sometimes ministers do not take on, as has been dramatically presented here a while ago - I must say, partly truthfully, because we do not often see one another here - that is, its parliamentary duty, the fulfilment of its parliamentary duty, the mandate, even if I am a minister. So I think it's a healthy compromise. I left the last meeting of the Permanent Commission with the conviction that the recommendation proposal was well founded and that I would certainly speak to it in the debate. However, I do not have the resolution here right now, but it was a recommendation, and we agreed that the compromise proposal is optimal. Thank you, and I apologize to all of you for being a little surprised right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u5	Thank you. Of course, Members have those recommendations in their materials. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be brief. Indeed, this development, as described by Mrs Válková, was on the committee, because the Commission's negotiations have been established several times by what model to adopt. I am in that part of the committee that has been overvoted, I have not supported the motion for a slippery mandate, and I have, by chance, argued quite politically strangely, similar to former colleague Miroslav Kalousek, that the government will stop coming to the House at all if it does not have to act as a Member at the same time. And in the end, we see it here, and we don't even have a slippery mandate, and the government is getting less and less and less. The second argument that we have used, which does not support a slippery mandate, that no one can imagine, for example, that Helmut Kohl or Angela Merkelová would not have a parliamentary mandate in the Bundestag at the same time. The point of politics is that these people are defending the proposals they hold in both government and parliamentary office. It's just a compromise. The Austrian model is that it is up to a particular member of the government whether it decides to perform only government engagement or to perform both. This is different from the model of French or other models, which are given by the fact that then the positions of state secretaries who go to ministers who completely separate themselves from the parliamentary system are at committee meetings and so on. So it's up to us to decide how we end up and if this standard gets 120 votes at third reading. Again, I have held on the standing committee rather those opinions that say that this is not an appropriate solution for the Czech purely parliamentary system, that if we are to maintain the standard of parliamentary democracy and we are not to experiment with other things as we have experimented with the direct election of the President, and that is why we have disrupted the system without thinking of some of the things that are being taken as very controversial today, we are not to do this. But, of course, it will depend on each of us, it is a constitutional standard, and the opinions on this solution are likely to remain with the various groups of Members, whether they are plaintiffs or those who support it or reject it. So much for the committee meeting. Mrs Válková described exactly the development of these opinions and I think that it will depend only on us - there is no point in commenting on this. Finally, for the third reading, both the Commission's resolution and the constitutional-legal committee's resolution will be available.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u7	Thank you. I have allowed the Vice-President to speak before the debate on the basis of a priority right, because he will alternate with me. I am now opening the debate and reporting to Mr Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my predecessor for presenting counterarguments on the issue of a slippery mandate. I want to add that I think that, with regard to the constitutional models and the functioning of Parliament, it is more necessary to compare with the Austrian model, because Austria is a relatively large analogue country, whereas Germany is significantly larger and the German Bundestag has 709 Members. This means, in 709 members, one chancellor or federal government does not play a very big role as it is in our 200-headed assembly or in Austria. [[10.00 hours]] I mean, the motion for a moving mandate is also based on our visit within the mandate and immune committee, which has made a business trip to the Austrian Parliament, and there our colleagues have shown us how it works, explained the details and stated that they are very satisfied with the functioning of the institute in practice. So this is also one of the things that leads us to believe that this could also work in a relatively close Czech legal tradition, which we know is very close to the Austrian model, when we look at the general Civil Code, which applied here very similarly, and some of the procedural rules that we shared together. I think that the key benefit of a rolling voluntary mandate is that to a minister who wants to do his job well, we will not throw sticks under his feet so that he has more and more responsibilities. We all realize that this is a very exhausting, demanding function, that it is one of the key people involved in state management, and really if we want this state to work well, these people should have very good conditions for their work. And yet, if we look at the political reality that the minister's work involves, if he also has the mandate of a Member to participate in the vote and hide the government coalition majority in quotation marks, then it can be quite exhausting and, of course, we do not want it to be reflected in the performance of the post. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u9	I thank Mr Michálek, and since we are in an open debate, I am asking for the floor of Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am also slightly skeptical of this proposal, but I know that it is always badly wanted by government parties. I was also in the governments that asked me to introduce a slippery mandate, or a Member, where the Prime Minister wanted me to introduce a slippery mandate. On the contrary, I am sometimes in opposition - even more often in my life - and I do not consider the slippery mandate to be the best idea at that moment. It really leads to the situation that we are already in today - and I know that this government no longer has more or less the confidence of this House and as it ends - but we are in a situation where at least one minister is being pushed in so that we can act, it becomes increasingly difficult and more problematic. I think that we should also consider whether it is absolutely necessary for the House to sit almost permanently, which I also believe that in some other parliamentary periods it may not be necessary for us to have to sit for ten weeks out of eleven and in the remaining one day at least. So I'm no special supporter of this slippery mandate, I won't support him like this before the end of the term. And that's all I wanted to say: I completely understand that we are having a discussion, going through the House, but I have great doubts as to whether the 120 votes that are needed in the House will be obtained here at the end. We may be discussing this in the next parliamentary term, if his supporters, especially colleagues from the pirát, are in the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u11	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has signed up with priority law. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I did not want to perform, but I could not hold on because, since you are already shooting at us like this - Marek Benda, and thank you for not having left - through the President: Mr colleague, you are probably here the longest and well know that even in the previous governments, and I think that even when the ODS ruled, for example, participation in written interventions, it was not the athletes who would meet there in dozens of pieces by those ministers, and there was the whole government. It's just never been like this. So let's also touch our own conscience a little bit and history, and I think we can agree that it was always a problem to get the members of the government to interpellation for the simple reason that it really is a combination of work and I think that President Michálek here said quite rightly that it really is not easy to combine. We're sometimes under the pressure of some media, and I understand it, it's an attractive subject. People write to us: Go to work! But we go to work and the Ministry! I am a Member and, at the same time, a Minister, and I think that the issue of a sliding mandate is a very good idea. I very much welcome that. After many, many years of discussion about nothing, I believe that this can eventually work out, and I am very glad that we are here and we are discussing this proposal which seems to be able to receive support, because I think it is very important that the possibility, when an MP becomes a member of the government, so that he has the opportunity to choose in this case, and of course he has the possibility that if he returns to the House, because naturally the Minister's work is a tiger ride, as we all know, so that he has some opportunity to return to the House. That's very important, and I can tell you that I think I'm one of the ministers who sit here quite often in the House, relatively over the period. I think if we went into statistics, I really am one of the frequent visitors to the House. I consider it very important, because otherwise one really loses contact with the House, but by far it is not always possible. There is a lot of work, maybe there are no exits due to the pandemic situation, but the minister's work is, of course, also in the field, he runs around the country. So I very much welcome the fact that we've gotten to this stage of debate that we've moved on like this. But please, since you're attacking us like this, let's get back to history. I think the statistics would be interesting as previous governments went to written interpelations or oral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u13	Thank you, Minister Brabco. With Mrs Válková, a colleague of Valenta, and a duly registered colleague, Mr Benda, is with a point of fact. [[expressed indistinctly]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u14	War. [[with a smile]] Mr. Vice-President, thank you. Just a point of fact, I remember a little bit in that history when I was Minister of Justice for 13 months, when I had a big problem when I came here to the House and I had a bunch of things. Acts, not things. And notice, the other ministers sometimes have that, too. [[A look at Minister Brabce's desk.]] I didn't mean to turn around, but here's the I.D. And now you have to watch the show, you have your points, you represent the other ministers here, that's often what happened, and that's where you have time for executive decisions, where officials, complainants, parties are waiting for your signature. So I think it will be more interesting to watch in the next parliamentary term who gives up the opportunity to influence as an MP - and we know that it goes, especially when it is active, the House's events, the agenda of meetings, the preference and the backwardness of some points, and who will take it seriously and say: No, I am a minister in particular. That'll be very interesting. I myself, if I were a secretary, which I'm lucky to be in no danger of, I think I'd have a big problem. I am not at all able to say what I would have decided, because having a parliamentary mandate is the greatest and best and the best that could have happened to us - to represent the interests of those who voted for us, on the one hand. On the other hand, the power given by the governing function of the minister is very significant and should be done 100%. So I like it very much, which concludes that there's this voluntary choice I prefer in the proposed text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u15	Thank you, Madame Válková. Now with the factual remark of Jiří Valenta.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In short, I would like to add to the previous speaker, Professor Válková, and Minister Brabec, as their Prime Minister Andrej Babiš constantly and long-term advocates of anchoring a slippery mandate into our Constitution. In 2013, Mr Andrej Babiš, Prime Minister, publicly promised that if he was a Member, he would go to the House, and not like the other Members who have 40 percent attendance in the House, they would sit in the buffets and drink coffee. Six years later, at the end of 2019, however, his own House participation in the House was only 34 percent, and we did not see him at that time even a few months in a row. [[10.10 hours]] That is why I also intersected him on this subject with the fact that his participation, as well as the members of the Government, at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, is more than trivial. The Prime Minister then promised to speak to the members of the government. Of course, nothing happened. However, since then, not much of an example has gone by itself. On the contrary, his participation in the vote then dropped to a limit of 27 percent. So I think that Prime Minister Babiš should first sweep his own threshold and push far more to accept a slippery mandate, but I don't think it's in the form that we're being translated today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Benda, now. I saw it as a normal application. There is one factual remark by Stanislav Grospič. So Stanislav Grospič now with a factual remark, then a colleague named Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I have had the opportunity to discuss these matters directly with the mandate and immune committee both in the Austrian Parliament and in the Slovak Parliament. I'm a little concerned that the genesis in both cases, Austria and Slovakia, the slippery mandate inspired by colleagues from the Pirate Party, was a little different, and what we actually have here on the table today is such a certain cat dog of both variants and I express my concern that it may not quite work. I would also like to point out that there are countries in the European Union and elsewhere in Europe where, on the contrary, there is a presumption that a member of the government must be a member of Parliament. So in this question, I would just like to point out that even if we introduce a slippery mandate - which, of course, in terms of the public and perhaps my own, has a very deep ratio, because two functions will not be accumulated - it does not mean, in itself, that the time programme and performance of the role of a member of the government and a senior executive and administrative authority will always allow for the time to arrive at an interview with the Chamber of Deputies. That doesn't solve the problem at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u19	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, now colleague Marek Benda in a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I acknowledge that Minister Brabec is of those ministers who come here fairly honestly to be recognised. I'm sure there are some who show up considerably less. I remember a long time ago when I said that Minister Pelikán was something like Mrs Columbová - everyone was talking about her, but no one in the House of Deputies had ever seen him. However, interpelations in our time, those participations used to be more abundant, not even 100%, and sometimes there were those who made excuses that they didn't want to come here, but such as Mirek Topolánek specifically adored and enjoyed them. He was enjoying the firefight with the opposition, and I think -- and that's related to what I said in the previous performance -- it's kind of about organizing the work of the Chamber of Deputies. There has been a long discussion here about whether the interpelation - and also with colleague Michálek and also with Mr President - will not be effective in any way, do not make some blocks to make it clear who the interpelated minister will always be and how, rather, concentrate it somehow. That's what I think are things that would be useful so that really poor ministers don't have to sit here all Thursday waiting for them to come in line in some seventh or twenty-seventh interpelration. However, I do not think that this is decisive whether or not a slippery mandate should be introduced. Just a slippery mandate has a little bit of other problems besides the fact that now, let's say, ministers are in danger, that if they give up the mandate, then they have nowhere to go. If we introduce a slippery mandate, the same threat is to those Members who take up that slippery mandate, and the moment that minister returns to the House, they have absolutely no choice, no chance, no control after three months, a year, two years - no more than four, of course - come back and have no chance of affecting it in any way. And logically, of course, their vote on a possible trust or mistrust of the government is, to a large extent, also conditional, so I wonder if voting for distrust of the government means I'm losing my job the next day because the minister is coming back to my desk for me. So just to be aware of these constitutional connotations, and that is why I am somewhat cautious about this constitutional change, as I always say, even on the premises of this House. I once voted here for the President's direct election, and I consider it the biggest mistake I've ever made in my life in politics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u21	I thank Mr Marek Benda, now Jan Chvojka in the debate. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. So at the ČSSD parliamentary club and in the party as such, this is not the thing that we would have in the programme. Here I am speaking for myself, I have a slightly different opinion than my colleague Kateřina Valachová, who supports this change, and everyone has a right to their opinion. I do not support this change and I will try to explain in a few points why. When I joined the Ministry of Legislation five years ago, I was doing round tables on the subject of constitutional change. Some were on the subject of executive power, some on the subject of judicial power, another table on the subject of legislative power. I must say that not one of the constitutionally-legal experts has come up with the fact that this is something that the constitutional system of the Czech Republic is in some way fundamentally troubling. I have to say, neither of them said that, and he didn't have that opinion. Other things were being handled there, and they thought that the constitutional system was troubled by other things. I agree with that. I say for myself that I am rather a supporter of this - as a great Anglo-American film - of the British system, when the minister must be a Member. I like it when there's a tension of the House with the government, and we see it - and I am a government member of this coalition - unfortunately, when there is a problem, when the tensions of the government with the House are not much. There's about half of it sitting in this government, maybe half it is, members of the government who are not Members. I think it's a problem not only from the point of view that they have less tendency to go to the House, that's one thing, and that's just the way it is. After all, it starts every Thursday, one of the previous speakers mentioned that ministers don't come here much, and that is what some of them Members are. There are also those who do not come here - or perhaps more those - who are not Members, because they have never been Members. And basically, we have a minister here - and I don't want to name him - whom I haven't seen many times in the House during his term of office. Maybe it's because he's just sitting in his office thinking, "I'm a minister, and I'm not going to some House if I don't have to go. So that's one problem I see. The second problem - and you can see it also - in the government, where you have non-member ministers that, of course, is the Prime Minister. These unelected ministers hold you logically and of course more in pliers, are unable or are less able to pursue their own policies, because there is only a difference when the Prime Minister tells you: You do this, and if you don't do it, I will call you off, and the colleague knows that he remains a Member, or there is a minister here, whom we pulled out of the hat somewhere - and I don't want to insult a city - just from somewhere, he becomes a minister, and if he doesn't listen to the Prime Minister, because in his opinion he has his own policy, the Prime Minister will call him off from day to day, the person in office ends and no one knows about him the next day. So this is another aspect rather procedural, but many political scientists and experts also mention constitutional law. Therefore, I do not support this for me, but I understand those who support the change and think it is useful. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u23	I thank Mr Chvojka. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I can't get out anymore because I don't have anyone to replace me, but I finally said my opinion. But those arguments that Marek Benda has put forward, I could elaborate on, but I will not abuse my position as President. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. There was no proposal that we should vote on at second reading after the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. I have not yet signed up for a detailed debate on this matter, nor do I see anyone else reporting from the point of view. I am also ending the detailed debate. I'm asking for final words - a colleague of Michálek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for the discussion. I wanted to ask, let's not blame ourselves for who's ever been on interceptions. Let's focus, though the arguments are legitimate, let's focus on the future. Let us try to draw up a programme of the Chamber of Deputies so that it is predictable. We have one suggestion to interpel, but unfortunately came covid, so even though it was a match, it failed to include, test and discuss it. I think that if we want the Minister to be present at this meeting - perhaps we are discussing a constitutional amendment now, I appreciate that there is a Minister of the Environment and a Vice Prime Minister here, but somehow I would expect that for the government... [[Minister Brabce's response.]] ... former Vice Prime Minister, so for the government there will be the Minister of Justice and someone who actually deals with issues of law, questions of division of power and so on, and I think it's a bit of a shame that the Minister isn't here. And that's what I think we should try to rationalise the system so that the minister comes when he's due, that is, to come to an interpellation, to come to his points, to go to a committee that is very competent, and so forth. I think this is how the Chamber of Deputies should work. And I think that if we give the ministers the opportunity to have their substitute so that they can really do the full work of the minister, then they will have a little bit more time to really take care of their duties, which result from the minister's duties - to go to interpelations, to go to the points that concern his resort. And if we can also meet them in order to make the House of Deputies' negotiations and the interpelation predictable, we can increase the percentage of participation. Finally, I wanted to thank my colleagues from YES, SPD, KDU-ČSL, STAN and part of social democracy for their support and cooperation in preparing this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u25	I have now been informed that a proposal should have been made in a detailed debate. Mrs Valachová asked Minister Brabec to perform. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u26	Let it be so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u27	Okay, thank you. I am reopening a detailed debate on this issue. This is the chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u28	I am just explaining, there has been a slight confusion here, but this is a resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which, of course, does not need to be read and voted on at third reading. So there's no procedural problem here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u29	Okay. I'm glad we're handling this. Mrs Valachová in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, colleagues. Only why I asked the President to kindly open the debate with Richard Brabec. I am sorry, because I have now arrived at this House press as Chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, unfortunately I have not heard part of the debate and I was concerned that we should not do a really slippery mandate too quickly. I'm sorry. The House Tempo was faster today than I expected. Thank you, I'm sorry, and thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-003-012.u31	We, Madam President, have replaced you with my colleague Válková with regard to information on the meetings of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution. Who's next for a detailed debate? If no one, I am ending the debate in detail. I ask you one more time about the final words - there is no interest anymore. In that case, because there was no proposal that we should vote on, I end point 12, second reading of the amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We will continue with the fixed point
