ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u1	487. Oral inhalation Oral interpelations are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I draw attention to all Members of the Government and to those who are intersected, that if the interpelling of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is exhausted, the intersecting of other members of the Government will immediately begin. I will be the first to give the floor to Mrs Olza Richterová, who was drawn in Babiš first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Martin Jiránek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues. I appeal to you, Prime Minister, in your role as Prime Minister, in your role as a man who has all the state apparatus at his disposal. Therefore, as I have announced in my interpellation, I ask for a clear presentation of the measures that you intend to implement after the current three-week lockdown. It's a thing that people ask us very much. I'm sure you have scripts when things go well when things get better and when things don't. And I'm sure you have a plan for different numbers of newly infected, for different numbers the development of the occupancy of ipa beds. I believe that one of your main tasks now is the state administration, health professionals, parents of school children, but also seniors waiting to be vaccinated for the possible scenarios that your government is preparing and considering to prepare. People just ask what's going to happen. You have a team of the entire state apparatus behind you, and I ask you, tell them in response to this interpelation, what measures are you planning in case of improvement, in case of deterioration or stagnation, when things stay more or less the same, let us not experience unnecessary confusion here on 17th, 18th March, as it has unfortunately been so far, whether companies, employees, all of us, have the whole state to prepare according to the trends of development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u3	I thank you for keeping the time precise, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u4	So hello, Mr President, honourable Members. Racing measures in the form of a three-week lockdown have been taken due to a highly adverse epidemiological situation in COVID-19 disease, and especially with the arrival of a British mutation, a South African mutation, and this has fundamentally changed the epidemiological situation. The situation is not good, we have 1 589 patients in intensive care units, and unfortunately it is an absolute record, because in November, when the peak of the second wave peak was peaked, it was a maximum of 1,200. What's worse is that in those ICUs - and unfortunately death - they relate to completely different age categories, as we had in the first wave. That means we're seeing really young people in the ICU today. People are dying around 55 and the situation isn't good. We're doing our best to increase the capacity, of course. Yesterday, we were making arrangements to give the authorities the authority to call in other paramedics to help our hospitals, and hopefully with this help, we can expand the capacity even further. Most importantly, of course, vaccination is because vaccination is the only solution and the only light at the end of the tunnel, at the end of this trauma. And that's why we're doing our best to vaccinate and, of course, we're trying to get vaccines all over the world. Unfortunately, we didn't get as many vaccines at the first quarter as we needed. Of course, we are preparing for a larger period of time, but there are reports every day that change the assumptions. For example, today we were supposed to get 60,000 Astra vaccines, and we learned at the last minute that we would only get 50,000. The original distribution of Pfizer/BioNTech to the second quarter also rescinded that we would have up to 2.6 million vaccines, and now they're telling us that we're going to have 600,000 or 456,000 less, so it changes every day, and of course it's not good. But more or less, the vaccination continues, improving, there's very close cooperation with the captains. We've already got about 180 vaccination sites, we're engaging with practices, we've opened a new age category +70, so it's all going on, we're preparing for a 140,000 or more vaccination capacity, we're preparing various major vaccination centers like the O2 arena, where the capacity could be 7 to 10,000 a day. So all of this is being prepared. Of course, we are trying to protect the lives of our fellow citizens and the import of various medicines that have proved to be successful abroad, such as Bamla or Regeneron, now, of course, Ivermectin is a big hit. So these are all the things we do. [[14.40 hours]] I'm glad and I want to thank everyone that it looks like we've all really realized what a serious situation this is, and those measures seem to be working and that people are ready to follow them. Not all of them, but I see a change here. We got it -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u5	Your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u6	Back from the police, we have good news.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member... he is interested and wants to ask the President an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u8	Thank you for the opportunity to discuss this. At the same time, however, my question, which people ask me, what to prepare for, what to expect, has not been answered at all. The situation is serious, I think we all know. At the same time, I think we all know that the onset of immunity after vaccination lasts several weeks, or the positive impact of vaccination will be delayed. On the other hand, we see in the government's conclusions that things are being discussed there as a quarter of a billion, 250 million crowns for a project that looks like small houses, for a project that looks like the development of a Czech vaccine but unrealized. So instead of drawing your attention as a government to these things and turning them into things, I'm interested in the answer to the strategic question of what people are supposed to prepare internally, what we're all supposed to be waiting for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u9	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u10	I must therefore refuse to claim a tunnel. And I'm being intersected, and I'm happy to tell you the history of vaccines in the Czech Republic, because, of course, the media doesn't talk about it. He's not talking about us being great at making vaccines, one of the best in the world. He's not talking about who privatized it directly and what happened to it. So I'm happy to tell you today, because, of course, the media are just purposefully choosing some things that are untrue. So no 250 million, and that's what I want to say. As far as we are concerned: I have warned all members of the government to at least comment on the prediction of the epidemiological situation. I don't want to either. We in the past, some members of the government had some ideas, some wishes, then it was taken over, as it was some promise, and, of course, the government decided on the basis of an epidemiological situation in a different way. So I would refer you here to 40 days for people's health and economics. That's basically an initiative, I don't know how many there are, like, 30 people signed that talk about how and what we should all do. We're telling people to protect their health, to minimize contacts, to completely limit contacts, to withstand the measures now. I know it's a big trauma especially for families with children, for students, for everyone. I can't answer you. Of course, we need to relieve Czech health care, we need to reduce people hospitalized significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u11	Your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u12	And depending on how it turns out, of course, we'll respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u13	Thank you. The second was Mr Martin Jiránek, who will give his interview. Mr Farský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u14	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Dear Prime Minister, I will follow up because I have a similar question, a similar subject. On the Prima TV show, on Sunday, you appreciated the Pirates that, unlike others, we come up with specific designs and numbers. Therefore, don't be surprised that we want to hear specific plans from you. Unfortunately, on the same show, you didn't answer Mrs. Tománková three times, so what will happen after the lockdown, what is the target. And when she asked for the fourth time, you said that after the lockdown, it would be Easter. So none of the viewers knew what the government's plan was. I'm asking, too. What exactly do you plan to do? Will the situation get worse, the same, or better? Why do I ask? Because Minister Havlíček, on the same day that you were on Prima, has announced to the media that citizens are to last three weeks, to follow the measures, and then he starts to release himself. And then when you told him he shouldn't comment on predictions, he told people on the same day that he'd be relaxing in three weeks. And I assume that this statement is based on some kind of plan, some kind of prediction. So please tell the citizens what strategy you have when the situation gets worse, the same or better. And please, you don't have to repeat that the situation is bad or that it's not good and that you're doing your best and that the virus is unpredictable. We all know that that year. But what people want, entrepreneurs, employees, paramedics, teachers, they want to hear is exactly what they have to prepare for, that 17th, 18th you plan to do 22nd. Will the lockdown continue? Harder if it gets worse? If it's better, what's released? Let's get people ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to return to your colleague's performance, who says I have a state apparatus at my disposal. So I just want to say that you obviously don't know how the state works, how the ministry works, how the Civil Service Act works, the independence of individual institutions, such as SÚKL, for example, which we are trying to convince now, even the Ministry to allow the use of Ivermectin for practices, such as hygiene independent and others. So saying that I have a state apparatus at my disposal, of course, that's not true. The government decides in the choir, I am, of course, active and I try to be ministers - as I would say - so that together we have mainly the things that need to be done, as if the police had competence, so that we could somehow fine restaurants that didn't close, and unfortunately the Senate gave us back the law that we needed so much. So, of course, if the pirát know exactly what's going to happen, then write it down! You always have suggestions, but when I ask you what to do, write exactly what to do. I'm sure we won't relax. There's no reason. There's no reason for us to relax. We need to get back to normal, but in order to get back to normal, we simply need to reduce the number of infected and, more importantly, reduce the number of hospitalized ICUs and hospitals. So I think it's understandable. I don't know anyone in covid time who predicts exactly what's going to happen. There's plenty of experts here who recommend precautions. We've made more or less the arrangements, but you're asking me what's going to happen. I'm not able to say any specific numbers here. We had "dog" here, everyone wanted it, especially you wanted it, and it's just not possible. No way. We've tried in the past, too, as part of the extension of the emergency situation, we thought we'd open the ski resorts and go to school first. But the predictions just moved in a completely different direction. In a completely different direction. So you want me to do something that I can't answer. I wish that we could all get back to normal as soon as possible, especially the kids and the students went back to school so that they could go back to sports, so that we could, of course, gradually return to normal life, but that goes hand in hand with the measures and vaccinations. So if you want me to give you an exact number, I can't. [[14.50 hours]] If you're saying you have so many experts, tell us what it is. I don't even want to give any predictions. We have epidemiologists for that. We have an expert group at the Ministry of Health. Mr. Dušek introduced you to various models that you received back then, as you actually, I think it was last Thursday, demanding predictions before or without a lockdown or with a lockdown. That's what we sent you, and of course now we'll see if it works, how much longer it's gonna grow. We're still in the growth phase, so the curve still hasn't bent, so to say some predictions, make promises, I really don't want to do that anymore, because it's not even possible. It's not even possible. So I understand that everyone would like to know what's going to happen, but there are some scenarios, but it will obviously depend on how mobility will decrease as well as overall, how people limit contacts, so it is, I think, that it depends - and predict some behavior or impact of mobility, we do the best for it. Now we're gonna deal with home office, tomorrow there's gonna be a government that we're gonna deal with in what way -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u17	Your time, Prime Minister. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u18	Thank you. I'm glad you're dealing with the home office. We've been calling for that for months, that's good. Anyway, today's top story is that Mr. Havlíček was wrong or misinformed, and he will not loosen up. I'll take that as at least a clear transmission of information. Thank you. I ask, then, if the situation gets worse, which can happen, how are you prepared for it? Are we prepared for this in any way? You complain about the state administration not cooperating, but the government must have time to prepare for it. I believe that if you were to do a task, it would be the government, if it had time, it would give you the study or the plan. I don't really understand complaining about the state administration. So if things get worse, do we have a plan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u20	I'm not complaining about the state administration, I don't know where you heard that? I didn't say that. I said the state administration is independent. There are a lot of great officials in the state administration who actually work and de facto haven't rested since last February, especially at the Ministry of Health, and our soldiers and, of course, health professionals. So I'm certainly not complaining. I'm just saying that it's not true, as your colleague says, that I have a state apparatus, because the Prime Minister is a minister's partner, and he's not a minister, he doesn't have the experts under him. So, of course, I have some competence, the government decides, I'm not making excuses. We have presented you with a model from Mr. Dušek and I very much hope that we will be able to flatten it together with the citizens. No government could handle a covid without working with people. So that's what this is about, and I thank everyone for respecting the new arrangement. I think the police are giving feedback. We have to hold on now. But I really don't want to make promises because we've promised x times in the past, and the virus is unpredictable. It's a natural disaster. If you don't understand it, it's a living organism that's changing, mutating, and if you have any miracle medicine to solve it, then yes. Some of your proclamations and some very... some suggestions, we discussed it with your chairman. We've done a lot of things, but we just have some other things that have huge implications for the budget and paralysis of basically our entire economy, if you're thinking about it right now, we're not able to do it because then we would really go bankrupt, and we didn't even have money for pensions, for example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u21	Thank you. I will ask Mr Farský to give his interpellation. Mr. Fiala will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Prime Minister, in an interview on the News List on 2 March this year, Mr. Zdeněk Blahuta, former national vaccination coordinator, and Mr. Pšenička, we were able to read that - I quote: "Because he"- meant Andrej Babiš - "of course, who gets how many vaccines, whether we send something extra to the Liberec Region, or to the Highlands and so on, and he really justified it all by the fact that it is all politics." The idea that vaccines could be divided into regions according to political preferences has really lifted me up. That's why I looked at the numbers to see if they match it, and when I went through the numbers of citizens in the regions, the age structure and vaccination, so the link to the number of vaccines that are delivered to the regions, there is none, even though there are regions where they have almost 90 percent of the citizens of 65+ vaccines and there are other regions where they don't even have 40 percent of them. And I would like to ask you in this, how is it that in some regions they have vaccines for almost everyone, while in some regions only for each third? Who distributes these vaccines, who decides how many vaccines are sent to which region and what are they for these criteria? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u23	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u24	Thank you for the floor. Well, to Mr. Blahuta: I would recommend that you take a look at the history of this official who took the lead in the SÚKL on the basis of Mr. Němeček's nomination, who did a strange transaction there, which was actually called off for Mr. Vojtěch. I think there's public information. pan Blahuta wanted to engage Mr. Prymula as coordinator, he was engaged by Mr. Blatný, even though I warned him it wouldn't end well. Mr Blahuta was unable to present any vaccination strategy. None. The first thing he did when he got on the show, he went on TV and talked about whether I had a spleen or not, and whether I should be vaccinated or not. So I told him how the press asked him to work and not to go to the media. Have him prepare the strategy. He didn't prepare any. He didn't prepare any. The soldiers did it at the last minute, which is why we didn't have a vaccination system until January 15th. So these lies and slanders of a disdained clerk, if you're actually interpreting here, and of course known anti-Babish psychic, I fundamentally reject it. It's not true. We are today - and we can go back to the beginning as it was with the vaccines, yes. The first vaccines of Pfizer were imported into Prague and Brno, were imported into the vaccination centres and first vaccinated large vaccination centres. Up to 21 January, vaccines were settled and all vaccines were distributed according to the population of 65+. And you know it, because Mrs. Pecková knows it well, these are your captains, even Mr. The fast knows it well. So you're saying it's not true. Nobody separates the vaccine politically, divides by population. And the statistics clearly say that the percentage distribution of 65+ is equal to 80+ or 70+. [[15.00 hours]] So it's not true. Blahuta lies, brutally lies. And I recommend to all citizens to know what kind of person he is. Of course, it's now being used to attack me. No vaccine has ever been distributed politically. It's completely absurd. We have vaccines, and we want the regions vaccinated as soon as possible. There's still a big difference. This morning, Minister Blatný wrote to all the captains, and that's no criticism or complaint, and I'm also talking to your captains, and together we want to handle it. I fundamentally refuse to do so. It's the untruths, the untruths of a disdained clerk who's getting revenge because he was totally incapable and never supposed to get in. But some of them didn't say, and then they realized it was a fundamental personnel error.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u25	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? That's right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u26	In the Liberec Region to date, compared to the reality as you describe it, and divided by the population of 65+, there would be 6 355 more vaccines. That's 6,355 people at the moment. Of course, let's assume they get a second dose, and they're just missing. They're missing because you sent them somewhere else. I said, who decides what the criteria are? I heard it's 65 plus, but it just doesn't match the numbers. That just doesn't match the numbers I can give here. Prague has 65+ first doses of vaccines in almost 90 per cent, Ustecký kraj in 40 per cent, Pardubicky kraj in less than 40 per cent, Liberecky kraj in 40 per cent. And it doesn't match how successful they are in vaccination, how quickly they can use the vaccines. [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] So it just doesn't match reality. And 6 355 vaccines are missing in the Liberec Region due to this non-transparable operation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u27	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u28	Mr. Ambassador, you're not telling the truth. You know, I once posted a video on who's inoculating, and your captain was very offended. But it was a fact, 3%. And I promised everyone I wouldn't read it anymore, who's gonna do it. The South Bohemian captain is the best shot. He's absolutely the best. Some people don't inoculate well. I don't want to go into any confrontation here that you're lying about. You're not telling the truth, you're not telling the truth. Everyone's getting a vaccine, Mrs. Baťová's splitting it up. I have no influence over this. I'm looking for a vaccine abroad, in Israel, in France. President Macron texted me last night to give us 15,000 more vaccines. I spoke to the Saxon Prime Minister because the Governor of the Plzeň Region wanted a vaccine like the Karlovy Vary Region. So I'm not splitting it up, it's not true, yes. And all you're doing here is making some claims that aren't true. I'll ask your captains if they really want me to talk publicly about how they're gonna inoculate. We agreed not to deal with this, that we would rather text each other, that we were in the same boat together, and that we wouldn't criticize whether someone was vaccinated better or less. Now we're building new capacities together. I'm not going to get into this debate about who's gonna get vaccinated. And when we're done with this interpelling, I'm gonna call Mr. Governor Půta and ask him if he's short on vaccines because everyone's getting the same. And you're not telling the truth. You're lying purposefully here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u29	Your time. Thank you. Vice-President Fiala has been drawn with another interpellation. A Member of the Zahradník will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u30	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I have attended three meetings with representatives of entrepreneurs and employers this morning, and I would like to ask you about matters relating to compensation. The first question is why your government is resisting the compensation law that passed the first reading at one of the last meetings. In our opinion, this is the only way to set up a system where entrepreneurs and companies will clearly know what compensation they are entitled to in case of closure or restriction of business. You will not have to declare any more and more programmes, which are sometimes subject to the approval of the European Union. Moreover, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček has already admitted that it is not possible to actually come up with a programme for every sector, and I completely agree with that. This is also related to my following question: Why has your government still not come up with a renewal of the programme or a proposal to renew the Antivirus C programme, i.e. the remission of social contributions and wages of employees of SMEs up to 50 employees, as well as the remission of minimum advances on health and social insurance for self-employed persons? And you didn't come up with it even though the House called for you to do so by its resolution of February 11th of this year. These two programs - I'm just reminding you - were very successful a year ago in the first wave. And when I talk to entrepreneurs, the forgiveness of social contributions is what they refer to as really big and important help. If, for some reason, you don't want to present the proposals here, then we have the three amendments we need basically prepared. If we make a deal, we can approve them practically immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u31	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u32	Thank you for the floor. I'd react to it this way. The Ministry of Finance updates each month an overview of the approved aid, aid already granted. It uses the same structure that other countries and professional workplaces currently apply to reporting. These are breakdowns into three basic categories, and this is direct aid, deferral of taxes and levies and guarantee schemes. This makes it possible to easily compare government-approved aid with other countries. This comparison also clearly shows that the Czech Republic is one of the countries that releases the most in terms of GDP in support of its economy, not only compared to EU countries. And I have a graph here. With regard to the measures taken, it has already reached a total of CZK 1 429.7 billion, of which direct aid is CZK 528 billion. The aid provided to 28 February 2021 amounted to 328,7 billion, including direct aid of CZK 221 billion. Gradually, the difference between the numbers approved and the aid granted decreases. This is quite logical, since the individual measures are gradually taking place, they are drawn on a continuous basis, for example after months. Sick Bay pays after a month, and it's not surprising that its recipient doesn't get the whole package in advance for, say, six months. Similarly, in the tax liberalisation package, which allows taxpayers to pay later taxes, it is clear that it will grow in time depending on how citizens and companies may or will not ask for this. Even a compensatory bonus, which, according to opposition politicians, also works flexibly, is paid gradually as the traders ask for it and for it. [[15.10 hours]] On the other hand, the overall quantification of the impacts includes complete impacts that are spread over a longer period of time. There is no contradiction between plans and reality. The difference between the two numbers then gradually decreases. It is quite logical that, as long as relatively massive direct aid runs in direct aid programs, entrepreneurs first draw on them. Guaranteed credit schemes remain here as a safety net at the moment when the direct programmes end and entrepreneurs want to use the loan with a state guarantee for investment purposes. I would remind you that the drawing of the guarantee schemes currently corresponds to the drawing in Germany, for example. As regards other prospects for this assistance, the intention of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Finance to change the COVID assistance for companies and self-employed persons applies. Among other things, there has been an increase in the compensatory bonus to which everyone who has fallen by 50 percent or more will newly reach. The Antivirus program will be extended, the contribution of 370 crowns will be introduced for people in quarantine and all specialized COVID subsidy programs will be merged into one. The new system will not only bring faster help to those who really need it, but mainly more money for damaged businessmen and entrepreneurs. The specific programmes to support the business environment that are implemented are: the compensation bonus from the Ministry of Finance is CZK 1,000 per day. COVID - Gastro - Closed establishments, COVID - Rent, this is all the Ministry of Industry; program of the infirmary for the Ministry of Industry - 400 CZK/day, also MIT; program Guarantee COVID III, MPO; COVID - Culture, also Ministry of Industry and Culture; program COVID - Accommodation II, MMR; The antivirus has been prolonged until the end of April - MPSV; COVID - Sport III - Ski centres, National Sports Agency, MPO; Agrikovid Food, Ministry of Agriculture. I think those programs are working, they are constantly being modified, and now the sales decline parameter will be applied, i.e. a comparison of the decisive periods of 2019 and 2020, with a view to hitting a wider range of entrepreneurs who have been affected by restrictions as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u33	Your time, Prime Minister. Mr. Ambassador, you have options for additional questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u34	Prime Minister, I'm afraid you haven't quite answered my question because I have asked about the compensation law and the Antivirus C programme, which is a matter for which your government has been called upon by the Chamber of Deputies. But I'll leave that to the people who are watching us. I understand from this that you're planning to go further along the path of endless compensatory programs, so I'm going to ask an additional question in this direction. As regards the preparation of further compensation, I would like to ask whether your government will continue to follow this indicator of the number of employees, which does not make complete sense, or at least begin to respect the view of the business associations, but also the resolution of the Economic Committee of 17 February, which says that objective economic criteria should be taken into account - a decline in sales, income or, in general, a set of costs. If I have good information, then some government Members voted in favour of this resolution of the Economic Committee, so it is certainly something that the government should respect. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u35	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u36	To do so, we had a debate on this under the pandemic law. I think that's where we found the match and we figured it out. And as to whether the number of employees or the cost: of course, that is then... and I perceive the debate between Minister Havlíček and, for example - I was present for the debate - with President Dlouhý. Of course, then Mr. Havlíček asks, "What are all these costs? If there really are things that may not belong there. So we're gonna keep the debate going. Of course, we are happy that the opposition always has some proposals, but those proposals have an impact on the budget, and then when we submit the budget, you disagree with the budget. So if there's a suggestion, it needs to be told how much it costs and who's gonna pay it. And that's not where we're gonna get that answer from you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u37	Thank you. I ask that Mr Zahradník take the floor with his intervention and prepare Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u38	Mr President, I will change the subject. Dear Prime Minister, the government should probably soon approve the recommendations of the coal commission. It recommended for the date of departure from the coal in 2038 with the fact that a number of conditions had to be met first. In particular, it is a timely replacement of coal-fired sources by other sources of energy, including the completion of a new nuclear source in Dukovany according to the planned timetable. It is essential for the Czech Republic to remain energy-sufficient. However, a number of ministers of your government have said that coal should end in 2033. It is clear that in 2033 a new block in Dukovany will not yet be available. It is also obvious that in 2033 it will certainly not be possible to replace the production of coal power plants and heat plants with renewable energy sources. My questions, Prime Minister: First of all, whether the Czech Republic's unpreparedness to the core and the pressure to move away from coal quickly is really the only preferred, whether a transitional or completely replacement source of natural gas? Because there is a legitimate concern that renewable resources cannot replace either the core or the coal. How much will it cost to build the planned volume of gas sources, whether heat plants or power plants? From what sources will this construction be financed and money from European funds can be used for its construction? What specific funds are they going to be? And the last question: have you started the negotiations yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Member, honourable Members, the energy self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic is, of course, an absolute priority and a strategic issue. We are fully aware that ensuring energy self-sufficiency, or security of energy supply, is an absolutely necessary condition for the operation of the Czech economy. The source base of the Czech Republic is very robust and the Czech Republic meets all indicators of electricity security. This, of course, must also be ensured in the future. Also for this reason, an evaluation of the production adequacy of the Czech electricity system is processed on an annual basis by the transmission system operator ČEPS. The requirement for the assessment of the adequacy of production capacities is based on European legislation, namely Regulation No. 2019/943, on the internal market in electricity. The assessment of sound adequacy at EU level as a whole is also prepared on an annual basis by the European Association of Transmission System Operators - ENTSO-E. Those evaluations are available both on the CEPS website and on the MIT website. Of course, I think that Mr Zahradník, who is in the coal commission as a representative of the Committee on the Environment, certainly knows all this information. If the new nuclear block had not been completed in time, the time lag would have to be temporarily bridged by imports of electricity. However, if the assumption of ensuring electricity self-sufficiency should be ensured at a level of at least 90 per cent, which is the assumption adopted by the Coal Commission, it would be necessary to put the 3 GW of new gas sources into operation. European Union funds are unlikely to be used directly for the construction of gas resources, as the European Union sees natural gas only as transit fuel in the decarbonisation process and is not too inclined to provide European money for the fears of possible stranded costs. In the Czech Republic, for example, the use of the so-called Modernization Fund for the construction of gas resources within the gas sector is envisaged. In order to ensure sufficient performance, it would be very likely that so-called capacity mechanisms should be put in place, but the form of which must be approved by the European Union. The possible introduction of these mechanisms is already being analysed and is expected to be enshrined in energy legislation and will therefore be able to be used if necessary. [[15.20 hours]] We therefore consider it very important that CEZ evaluates production adequacy each year and analyzes what needs to be done to avoid future problems. The Coal Commission has also developed a number of relevant analyses in this, and I assume that this body will continue to function as an advisory body of the Government of the Czech Republic and will periodically review the development of external factors and the impact of these developments on energy security, among other things. To the European Union, I would just like to say that it has been extremely difficult to push the word core into the conclusions of the European Council, then the word gas, then the impact of climate change on our forests and crust. So, of course, these meetings are very difficult, but I think we've been there. And of course, it is important to prepare for the construction of the Dukovany nuclear block, where we with the opposition and with you, of course, are dealing with this within the Dukovany nuclear block construction group. So for me, about that much about ending coal processing - the conclusions of the coal commission apply, although it is true that some members of the government have recently started to express themselves differently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u41	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u42	Thank you, Prime Minister. I just want to say two things. With the gas, you may well know, the solution cannot be definitive, because it is also a fossil fuel, and the European Union sooner or later will question and forbid us. To the core: I think that we should not give in to the European Union. Maybe we have allies, Poland is starting or about to build resources, the Netherlands, Sweden is going to build new resources. This could be our allies precisely in the fight against the Commission for the recognition of the core as a clean resource. The project of the completion of the Temelín power plant has been shut down in the South Bohemia so far. I recommend and ask the government to take up this project and not let the enormous capacity there fall asleep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u43	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u44	No, absolutely, believe me, I'm fighting there, and I've put some things there. Yes, and it is a little absurd that on the one hand, some states have shut down nuclear power plants and coal and are still talking about Russia's danger of being even more dependent on Russian gas. So it's kind of ridiculous stuff. It is true that there have been more and more countries recently supporting the core. Yes, in fact, the whole of Austria is surrounded - Slovenia, Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, everyone wants to build a core, the Netherlands is new and, of course, France is a leader. I don't know about Sweden, I've just noticed that sometimes the green fanaticism that threatens industry goes so far that the government and the media recently called on people not to defuse because they don't have power. This is sometimes the result of these abnormal effects, political impacts. Of course, we must and strive for our energy security and independence to be our sovereign issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u45	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová will perform with her intervention, Mr Valenta will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, I will follow up on the previous subject. After it was decided to build the Dukovany nuclear bloc, the government adopted a resolution defining the security interests of the state on this project, namely D 56/2020 and V 147/2019. The agreement between the state, Čez and EDU II followed. EDU II and ČEZ have undertaken to comply with the state's security requirements and by proving to the State that they will incorporate all security requirements into the procurement documents. Followed by a documentary from 14. 9. 2020 signed by Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was processed by representatives of security institutions and it follows that 17 of these security requirements approved by your government were incorporated into the procurement documents. Prime Minister, can you please guarantee that all your government's approved security requirements will be incorporated into the procurement documents? Can you tell me how security institutions didn't have enough time to do that? Can you please tell me how it is possible that the safety requirements you have approved have not yet been guaranteed? How is it that you want to proceed under Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act without taking this into account in the procedure? I do not understand these procedures and I have fundamental reservations about this because you are really threatening - unless you ensure that this is taken into account - the security of our country that we should all care about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u47	Thank you and give the floor to Prime Minister Andrea Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u48	Thank you for the floor. Actually, I forgot to answer Mr. Zahradník about Temelín. Yes, it's a huge shame. I was in the government that was supposed to decide, and I didn't. [[Mrs Langshadl objects off the microphone.]] I'll get to it right away. I just wanted to say that we should have finished Temelín, it's a mistake. I was a minority in the government, we were blackmailed by the guaranteed price, and ČEZ spent a billion on it and could finish it. This is for the Member. As for the preparation of the construction of the Dukovany nuclear bloc, of course, we do not want to repeat the mistakes of past governments when Temelín was not completed. You all know that the state has now advanced, the state guarantees the investor all current conditions, a stable legislative and regulatory environment, the state will provide a return financial assistance under exceptionally advantageous conditions, guarantees the investor a long-term buyout of electricity produced for 30 to 60 years - and that is what we want, cheap financing and cheap electricity for people. The State supported the exemption from the Public Procurement Act for the decisive part of the project. The State has ensured a change in legislation so that the territorial and construction proceedings are easier, faster and predictable. It also addresses the authorisation processes and the readiness of state authorities. The State has begun prenotification of public support for the European Commission. And, of course, what is necessary now is that we need to finalize the demand documentation, including in negotiations with the political party presidents, who I called for after the December Standing Committee, which took place on 27 January 2021. In particular, it is necessary to discuss with the Government a document confirming the safety requirements in the direction of the investor, in particular the nominal list of participants or consortiums to be invited by the investor to tender. At the same time, the government will agree to the level of integration of security requirements by the government and entrust the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Industry and Trade with the handover of this document to ČEZ as defined in the First Implementation Agreement. [[15.30 hours]] In the area of funding, it is necessary to decide whether the State will finance only the third through the return financial assistance, i.e. the construction phase of the project, or we will move on to 100% funding by the State, which was also acknowledged by the political party presidents at the January meeting. The aim is to avoid unnecessary increases in the price of electricity for consumers, which I was talking about - cheap financing, cheap current for companies and citizens. The basis for the success of the project is broad political agreement not only on security aspects, but also on economic and financial security, for which a law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy needs to be approved. This is a condition for solving market failures and therefore the implementation of the project. I would, of course, ask you not to unnecessarily politicize the Dukovany core and project in order to continue on the basis of a broad consensus, as we have done in the past two years, and together we have moved the project forward. Otherwise, we will harm not only the Dukovans, but also the entire nuclear energy sector in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u49	Thank you. Does the Member wish to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u50	Prime Minister, but the broad consensus is not here at the moment. Representatives of the five democratic parties have clearly said that they are against Russia and China's participation. They made it clear, so there is no political consensus here. And if you followed your approved documentation, that means your approved security documents, they couldn't even be contacted, yet you said at the meeting with the party chair that you wanted Russia to be approached. And that is what is completely unacceptable. I'm glad to hear you're still going to discuss this with the government, because then you'll all be responsible for the fact that the safety conditions approved by you will be reflected there, because they're not yet there. They are not, and that is something that is extremely serious, because if you yourself approve the safety conditions, then you are guaranteed that they will be incorporated into the procurement documents, and that is not yet the case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u51	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u52	Madam, it's not like that. We have repeatedly made it clear that the next government will select the supplier. The next government! And it won't be us, it won't be our government. Once again, we will meet the security requirements of the security forces, ČEZ must submit text documentation of the tender and assess whether it meets the requirements of the security services. So that's true, and there's no contradiction. I think we're in line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u53	Thank you. I will ask Mr Jiří Valenta to present his intervention on the Prime Minister, Mr Bendl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you why the request for a fourth full-fledged telephone operator has ceased to apply and was no longer the primary objective of the auction of frequencies, as the government has declared in the long term, and finally you personally. You don't mind that three dominant mobile operators just redistributed the most valuable frequencies again and didn't break the dysfunctional oligopoly customers in our home? Are you really okay with the outrageous level of customer prices on our telecommunications market? After all, the government's request to the fourth operator was made clear in the adoption of the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act. Minister Havlíček even argued, quote: "We are not hiding that we are preparing the tender for another operator, there is interest." And you enthusiastically agreed and said that you wanted to set the terms of the auction to be attractive to new players. And that didn't work out at all. So can you explain to our public why this part of the government's programming statement, where it is said that you will promote as much competition as possible in the telecommunications market, has not been fulfilled, which will lead to price reductions and improvements in services? However, the public frequency auction ended in this sense with a huge fiasco, as the political commitment of the government remained, but the champagne now opens, for example, Mr Kellner with his O2 but the end-of-the-line Czech customer cries further looking into his wallet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u55	Thank you. The Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u56	Thank you for the floor. Well, honourable Member, you're wrong. You are wrong because we are the first government to really and really start to put strong pressure on operators and really lower mobile data prices. [[He's showing the material.]] I also have a table here where you can clearly see the average retail price going down. Already in 2019, an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act was explicitly approved, which introduces an easier transition to another operator or price comparisonr, which also contributes to increasing transparency and improving the competitive environment on the mobile market. But we have also put strong pressure on operators, which has led to new pricing rates, including those with unlimited data. The strengthening of competition was also one of the objectives of the 5G smart mobile network auction in the 700 MHz and 3.5 GHz bands, which ended on 13 November 2020. The decision on frequency allocation for electronic communications networks in these frequency bands was issued by the Czech Telecommunications Authority on 18 January 2021. We evaluate this frequency auction as a success. Minister Havlíček and I agreed that he would increase competition and that would increase the pressure to lower prices. The advantage of this event was also, unlike the past, not only on the option of the arrival of the big fourth operator, but also brought other tools to push down prices. The Czech Telecommunications Authority has prepared an auction that has brought a unique solution through price-oriented national roaming and for smaller players on the market. Given the possibility of national roaming for operators competing with frequencies in the 3.5 and 3.7 GHz bands, a real pressure will be created to further reduce mobile tariff prices. In short, this means that for the first time in history, the Czech Telecommunications Authority will be able to set prices for the use of a network of other operators on the basis of a statement of the real costs of operators, when the Czech Telecommunications Authority has so far had to base itself on the prices shown by operators on the market. As a result, these smaller players will be able to operate throughout the network at low prices, which will create very strong competition for current players. Such players in the mobile market can now be up to three, i.e. already very competitive. These three players can operate globally and offer really low prices, which will be a concrete solution to the problems with prices on the Czech mobile market. We also register complaints from all three big players, which are aimed to a large extent precisely at cost-oriented national roaming. However, their complaints show that this is precisely the measure aimed at increasing competition. On the other hand, the current three big players competed with the 700 MHz band and now have the opportunity to show that they will develop digital infrastructure in the Czech Republic as they announced in advance. Also thanks to the adaptation of the 3.5 GHz part of the band for industrial needs, this auction has responded to the justified needs of the Czech economy, which will help its modernisation and digitization. That is why this auction was innovative and responded well to the Czech 5G network development strategy. We are therefore pleased that the Czech Telecommunications Authority has managed to meet the auction target this year, despite the coronavirus crisis and with more than expected revenue for the state budget. The proceeds are not the main thing. The main thing is that this auction has brought decisive measures that will increase pressure on mobile tariff prices and we will also move here to the most advanced countries. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies has been tabled an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, House Press 1084, which transposes the so-called European Code for Electronic Communications. The main objectives of this amendment include, inter alia, strengthening consumer protection, facilitating entry to the market, promoting competition in the field of the operation of networks and the provision of electronic communications services, or stimulating investment in high-speed electronic communications networks. I believe that this amendment will also significantly help to strengthen the market environment, and I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to support the approval of this amendment to the Electronic Communications Act. [[15.40 hours]] To support the deployment and development of fifth generation networks and services in the Czech Republic last summer, the so-called 5G alliance was established, which is a common platform for supporting mobile networks and services of the fifth generation based on an approved government strategy -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u57	Your time, Prime Minister. Thank you. The Member shall ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u58	Prime Minister, I'm afraid you're not telling the truth, because you didn't say anything you just read here about 18 months ago, or the other way around. Here you claimed that the arrival of the fourth player, a major player, was abusing the mobile communications market, and nothing like that happened. The sum of the sum, the end prices of our consumers are still hugely high compared to the majority part of Europe. You don't register, you don't have that in your charts? And I won't remind you of your quotes, I've already indicated them here in the opening part of my performance. And the interest to enter our telecommunications market was indeed, I recorded for example Nordic Telecom, but there were other players in the game, although not global, of course, as companies from South Korea, the United States, but also from Europe. But the search for the fourth operator was done as usual. In this case, therefore, oligopol has become even stronger and consumer prices - at least in my opinion - have been preserved for a long time. So the result of your government effort declared a year and a half ago: zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u59	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u60	I am so sorry that the MP didn't listen to what I said. Of course, that's not true. This was about price cuts. That's what's happening, and it's going on. The fourth operator was not the target, the goal is to reduce prices and competition, and we have succeeded, so of course I cannot agree with what the MP here has interpreted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u61	Thank you. I will ask Mr Bendl to present his intervention, and Mr Bojko will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u62	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, the Czech Republic certainly cannot boast of the number of people who are vaccinated per population compared to each European country. It certainly is not to the credit of the Czech government that it could definitely boast of the number of vaccines within the European sector. On Sunday, I learned from the media that, Prime Minister, you and Mr President asked the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China to supply their vaccines, which are not certified in the European Union. In the meantime, I have learned from the media that the Minister of Health has rejected about one million vaccines from AstraZeneca, a license produced in India, and we all know that AstraZeneca in the Czech Republic, is applied in Europe, with the argument of the Minister of Health that it is not possible to use this vaccine here because it does not have certification in the European Union. So in one or two cases, in the case of the Russian Federation and in the case of the People's Republic of China, it is possible - even our top state officials are asking these countries to supply vaccines that are not certified, on the other hand, there is the opinion of the Minister of Health that we reject such vaccines because they do not have certification. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, how is it possible that the Prime Minister is asking for a vaccine that does not have a European certification, and the Minister of Health is refusing a vaccine produced in a licence that is allegedly not certified, even though it is produced in a licence,? I beg your opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u63	Thank you, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u64	Thank you for asking. I'll try to explain. I would like to inform the Member that AstraZeneca and I have a contract negotiated by the European Commission, and we have committed ourselves to buying goods from AstraZeneca only within the framework of the contract. That there's a black market and someone's offering AstraZeneca, and it's not the first time - we've gotten a similar offer before. Seller: Dubai, some P.O. Boxing, pay up front 50 percent, price four times ours. And the offer announced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs: it's interesting that it was discussed at the ÚKŠ and everyone explained to him that it was nonsense, but the friendly medium already at 14.52 quoted that the minister who doesn't know anything about it... someone wanted to make money again. Do you know how much the vaccine was offered? $22! So we buy for 48 crowns and here they offer us a ten times higher price! And who offered it? The Arab company Natalya Muzalev. It's typically an Arab name, Natalya Muzalev. It offers AstraZenec, made in India, which cannot be sold in the European Union, and the media will make it a big story. I'm not gonna repeat the name of the gentleman who owns the psychic. I'm sure it wasn't purposeful when at 8.52 or morning at the ÚKŠ it was explained that it was nonsense... By the way, OLAF is investigating these black jobs, these scams -- someone should have paid up front again. So we explained it to the government, and I asked the ministers the next time they get this flak offer that violates the law, and it's private supplies, some unknown company in the Emirates. I've already had an offer once, the weird one from Dubai, so I talked about it. And what did the media say back then? She informed that AstraZeneca turned against Andrej Babiš's comments on the extra delivery of vaccines through a private intermediary on Friday in Brussels. Well, doesn't the same medium say the same thing now? So it's a stick, it's a fake design, somebody wants to make big money. And we just won't buy such vaccines! Logically. Logically. So, of course, instead of checking something out, the media are just copying it. And big headline: Czech Republic refused to buy vaccine from the United Arab Emirates! No Arab Emirates has offered us anything! The private company Natalya Muzalev, typically an Arab name, offers us ten times overpriced AstraZenec, which is not allowed in Europe. So that's the whole story. Some middleman, somebody wanted to pack up. And as far as Sputnik is concerned, Sputnik asked for an EMA registration today, so I think the SÚKL's analysis of the documentation today is a good thing. Of course, we're looking for a vaccine. We need a vaccine. We're inoculating, but we still haven't enough. So take it easy! The state cannot afford to buy a black market vaccine from weird companies at an overpriced price and pay ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u65	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u66	Thank you, just a little while longer. I have no doubt, Prime Minister, that you are a great businessman and that you can deal with intermediaries. I'm sure you can do this very well and bypass them. My point is, there are thousands of people who have registered, and now they're texting them back that they're supposed to re-registration, because the vaccine isn't, and we're supposed to be looking for the vaccine. I don't know the specific wording of the contract. I agree with you that dubious intermediaries should go away and that they should not be part of the vaccine delivery process. That's what I'm signing. However, I think that the Prime Minister, as well as the Minister of Health, should try, if there is any possibility, to get a vaccine that is available. So I would ask AstraZeneca directly whether it is possible in the context of what it produces outside the European Union, and I do not know whether it is part of the treaty or not, whether the European restrictions apply to it or not. If not, which should be your main interest, then negotiate with the licensed manufacturer about deliveries. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u67	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u68	I'll try again. AstraZeneca has repeatedly warned all Member States that it does not exist in order to buy their vaccine outside of the manufacturer AstraZeneca, so it is a fraud. And if I'm a good businessman or not, Mr. Ambassador, I think I've made quite a good purchase of Ivermectin, which Chief Rezek wanted to buy and failed. I did it in two days, three times the price. We started negotiating on Saturday, there was a contract on Monday, and a van came in on Tuesday. So yes, if it is a manufacturer and if it is directly and if it is beneficial for the Czech Republic, then we do it, but this was just a fraud.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u69	Thank you. I will ask Mr Bojek to give us his intervention, then Mrs Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u70	Hello, Mr. Chairman. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Prime Minister, in the media, you boasted that you provided the medicine Bamlanivimab. I have a few questions for you. How much is one treatment dose? What's the total cost of the shipment? Is it part of the agreement that the Czech Republic will receive only the medicine, or is it possible, as with Remdesivir, that we will pay and receive only the placebo? Are you aware that this medicine is only experimental, unverified, intended only for patients with mild COVID-19 disease, not requiring hospitalization, not requiring oxygen administration and clinical signs not exceeding seven days, i.e. people who are treated with self-treatment at home? This information is left by Czech Society of Anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive medicine of Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně on the speaker counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u71	Thank you. I will ask for quick disinfection of the counter, because the Member does not comply with government measures in the Chamber, and then the Prime Minister will have the floor. [[It's happening. The cleaning worker, on request from the diaper, takes the file with the data from Mr Boyek outside the speaker's desk to the rapporteur's desk.]] Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u72	Thank you for the floor. I am very glad that we managed to secure Bamlanivimab and that we managed to do it directly from American society, we also acted very quickly, and the great thing was that the company was giving a price to individual states according to GDP, so it is fair. Bamlanivimab is an antibody cocktail, it is a medical agent that is designed to allow patients at the initial stage of COVID-19 to avoid ending up in intensive care units. This was dealt with by the clinical group of the Ministry of Health, working group 8. 2. 2021 has formulated an opinion on this medicine and the SÚKL has authorised the use of this medicine. So it's a drug that works in the world just like Regeneron, who got President Trump, and we also managed to buy it directly, like the other one in Europe after Germany. I think it's important that our patients have the chance to get this drug, this monoclonal antibody, and there's clinical evidence of drug effectiveness. Thomayerův's hospital bought 500 doses of this medicine, received 12 patients, the first patient was oncologically ill, and she's doing well. It got 28 other hospitals that showed great interest. So I don't know what's bothering you about saving the lives of our fellow citizens because of this drug. The cure, as far as I know, costs about CZK 24,000, which I think is definitely a small sum for the price of one life. So I don't understand why you don't like it when there's a lot of interest in Europe and everywhere in the world, and hospitals are glad that they got this antidote or this antibody cocktail at all. So far, 217 doses from the first delivery have been distributed, of course it is being evaluated on an ongoing basis, and so far it is great news that patients are doing very well and that none of them ended up in the hospital after administration of this medicine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u73	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u74	Thank you, Prime Minister, but you have not answered two fundamental questions, and that is how much the total delivery price will be and whether it is part of the agreement that the Czech Republic will receive only the medicine, or it is possible, as with Remdesivir, that we will pay and receive only the placebo. I would add that we all know the situation in the Czech Republic regarding the corruption of doctors by pharmaceutical companies, when 200 people were charged, of which 150 doctors, from corruption by pharmaceutical companies, when these doctors acknowledged their guilt and agreed with the state on a fine of 150 per cent of the bribe received. Eli Lilly, a manufacturer of Bamlanivimab, received a fine of $29 million in the US for corruption in Eastern Europe. How will you guarantee to the citizens of this country that there has been no corruption in your personally arranged trade? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u75	Thank you. I'm gonna ask for a quick disinfectant again, since we've already decided to do this, so we'll follow the procedure. [[It's happening.]] Prime Minister, a moment. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u76	I really don't have words. Your colleague is obsessed with Ivermektin, I bought it, you didn't compliment me on it, and my colleague kept telling me about it all day, so I arranged it. [[16.00 hours]] I'd like you to talk about some corruption. The purchase was transparent. There were x people there. And I don't know what you said about some doctors who don't know what they were doing. Well, of course, that can be verified beautifully. And I really don't understand why you're saying this - such rumors and lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u77	Thank you. It is 15 hours 59 minutes, and in a few seconds it will be 16 hours, so we can end the interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and continue the intercession with the other members of the government. I call on Mr Karel Rais to give an oral interview to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jana Maláčová, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u78	Thank you. I'm trying to give an interview from around October because I thought the Minister would be here, but I've already resigned, so even if he's not here, I'm going to read it and expect a written answer. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask you the following questions. The solution to the single labour and social information system provided for the solution of data incoherence, their migration. I wonder how this project goes and when it ends. First question. From public sources, I have information that the Ministry presented total expenditure on operation and investment in technology in particular of the information system last year at about CZK 2.5 billion. According to him, the finishing work and the simultaneous operation of new and old systems were mainly behind the sum. I wonder, and the public certainly also, whether you have finally completed the parallel processing of social benefits on two information systems and whether you will already use only one information system. According to my information, the problem of data migration when moving the old data to the new information system should have been completed by the end of 2020. And the question on my part is whether this term was respected and what the costs were. That, of course, has something to do with it. From public information sources, I only know that the costs of operating on IT are only increasing. I would also like to know how much the real expenditure on operation and investment in technology will be for 2021 this year, especially the information system you numbered for CZK 2.5 billion last year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel. Minister Maláčová is excused and will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will give another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u80	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President and Mr Absent Minister. I'd like to mention the approach that's been going on since 1 right now. 3. running, and this versus Police of the Czech Republic plus other force components of the state towards the inhabitants of this country. I think that over the last 20 years, the situation here, as seen by the Police of the Czech Republic, has improved quite significantly since 1989. And the "help and protect" motto, which I think we kind of perceived those cops, just like other security forces like firefighters. Unfortunately, from 1. This perception of the Police of the Czech Republic and other forces is unfortunately beginning to change for the full contribution of the Minister of the Interior, because police officers are being tasked in this way. And since it's an armed corps, that's where they're in charge, that's when orders are obeyed, no matter how self-insensible they are. The police are chasing people who are alone in the park, if they have an FFP2 respirator, and they're alerting them to wear it. Minister Hamáček wants people not to go into the woods because it is far from their residence. Are we really crazy? I wonder how you'll answer me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u81	Thank you. The Minister of the Interior is not present, the interview will be answered in writing. Next in line is Mrs Barbora Kořanová, with an interview also to the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Unfortunately, the Minister is not present, so allow me to read this interview quickly. After all, my colleagues and I have been waiting for her for a very long time because the interpelations have been canceled. Dear Vice-President of the Government, I am referring to you on the matter of file service, which your department is responsible for coordinating. Here's what I'm talking about. According to an analysis of your resort from 2018 and 2019, the state spends about CZK 10 billion per year on the management of the file service, i.e. a small amount. However, as the analysis states, most authorities are not able to conduct the file service in a credible, efficient and accurate manner, while the control capacities of state archives in which the control of the administration of the file service is ingested are not able to cover the control fully, unfortunately, far from it. These failures and their ignorance logically shed a negative light on the public administration itself, because the writing service is an essential element of it. The archives themselves state that they do not have sufficient personnel and professional capacity to check the file service directly with the originators, and therefore the inspection is not effective, and your department is strongly prevented from carrying out an audit of the file service, which in itself would definitely not replace the control, but would only be its helping hand, which would deal partly with the personnel and professional emergency that the control suffers. Moreover, auditors as such would not be directly associated with archives and other institutions, but would act - at least that is the logic of the matter - independently. Your resort, even though it notes the personnel exhaustion of the archives, did not take steps to resolve the situation, did not arrange new places, on the contrary, in the event of the cancellation of the tables, the archives were one of the biggest victims of the personnel reduction. So I'd like to ask: 1. Do you think your department is taking your file service seriously enough? 2. How did your resort reflect a report on the functioning of the file service, which came out rather to the detriment of the resort? 3. Do you intend to take concrete steps to remedy the situation by the end of your term of office? If so, when will you meet them at this House? I would like to remind you and this House that the file service is next to other... [[Time.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'll get a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u83	That's right. The Minister is not present, you will receive a written reply to this interpelation. Mr. Marian Jurečka, with an interview with Mr. Minister of Health Jan Blatný, will speak with another interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u84	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Prime Minister leaving, colleagues, I am addressing the Minister of Health with an interview, and I would like to ask him if he could at least say a very brief strategic plan, the backup plan B, which is said to always have, as he is planning to deal with the situation in our health system in the coming days and weeks, so that we can mobilise the maximum possible capacity of supplementing beds for patients with COVID-19. This means what further steps the Minister will be planning, apart from the existing ones, which we know how the reserve capacity of the hospital in Opočínek will be used, and so on, if we have enough fans, oxygen generators, if the Administration of State Material Reserves has been addressed by the Ministry of Health to possibly supplement these strategic reserves here, or how we communicate with foreign partners in coordinating the possible foreign assistance that some countries have already offered us. Alternatively, I also want to ask how the use of spa houses, spa care providers, where there is at least some basic medical background in terms of expertise, whether there are some lighter cases or until recovery is planned to take place there, so that the most intensive care has the capacity created. So please nicely, Minister, if you can do a summary of the fundamental, essential things that you plan to do in the coming days so that we can manage the situation in the three four weeks horizon in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u85	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Members, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the current epidemiological situation is serious, so it continues to be unfavorable, it continues to be a community transfer and this also results in an increasing, or extreme risk to the burden of the hospital system. About the particular things that are happening right now. In fact, a number of hospitals are being switched gradually, somewhere even in the entire regions, into a system of mass threats to people, where it is actually easy to say that the entire hospital will go into one intensive care unit, in which only intensive care is being treated, or only provides an urgent, early intensive care, whether in patients with a covid or without a covid. There is also a change in staff distribution in individual facilities, where a minimum safe number of personnel is left. In other words, where the sisters would have had to be a few for a given number of people, so there is now the minimum, which is still safe, by which part of the staff is also acquired. There is a redistribution of staff inside hospitals and reprofiling beds. As of today, there is also a work obligation for a number of professions, which can be announced by the governor or mayor of the capital city of Prague, and tomorrow we are also preparing a work obligation in agreement with the management of universities and with the Ministry of Education. We try to do this sensitively, but this cannot be avoided, even for high school students and universities in fields that can help. This will give us additional capacities for existing care. The problem is not lack of beds, lack of space or lack of fans and similar facilities, there is enough, and this has been consulted with state reserves, the problem really is staff. By fulfilling their work obligations, they have - and today they have left both oral communication and letter - individual hospitals have an obligation to determine exactly the needs they have, that is, how much they are able to increase the number of intensive care units or beds and how much they need staff to do it, which is then communicated with the management of the region that will ensure this through the work obligation. You also asked about the use of other capacities, which are outside intensive care facilities, where you correctly mention, including spa care. It is a facility where so-called lightweight patients can be hospitalized after being transferred from intensive care hospitals, and it is precisely these spa facilities that have the opportunity to apply for staff support in the form of a work obligation, because after discussions with these facilities and with their associations and management, it is true that, within the current state, these facilities do not have sufficient qualified and sufficient staff. This is the situation as it is now addressed, which should bring about a change in the number or capacity of intensive care beds in the Czech Republic within a few days, which is an essential criterion. In addition, the possibilities for transport of patients, especially to the surrounding countries, are also set. This option exists, it is activated. No specific requirement has yet been issued to the EVRS system, so no such patient has been transferred. However, all hospitals have been given information on how to get to such help, what it means exactly, they have a manual. In addition, assistance has also been offered with the non-European Union from Switzerland, which can be activated if necessary from 6. 3. in the number of 20 beds intensive care, where the transport would arrange itself Switzerland. So this is the plan you're talking about. It is based on the redistribution of care, reprofiling of equipment and increasing the number of personnel, which is the basic thing we need to be counting on right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u87	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u88	Thank you very much. I thank you for the assurance that material equipment is provided with sufficient material equipment, or on the Administration of State Material Reserves. But I would like to ask, Minister, if you are able to quantify what you have described in general from the point of view of increasing the specific beds that the medical staff will also have, whether it is an ICU bed, and whether it is the number of beds with fans, or the number of beds using extracorporeal circulation and so on, if you can somehow quantify what the number is now and what number can be increased, for example, in the course of the two three weeks, in the absolute number or in percentage, if you have such data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u89	Thank you, and the Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u90	Thank you. The number is available on the dashboard of the National Bed Dispatch. These are currently the capacities that are around something... between 100, 150 beds for intensive care units covidová and several hundred for others. The number, as it would have been increased, will meet during the last day at my request at the Ministry of Health to make an exact request, the exact number of employees who will be summoned, and the beds that will be increased, available for tomorrow's government meeting at 12 o'clock to be comprehensive information, so we'll put it at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u91	Well, thank you. At this moment, Mr Marian Bojko will speak to the Minister of the Interior, Jan Hamáček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u92	Thank you for the floor. Mr. absent Secretary of the Interior Hamáček, we live in 2021 and each of us has biometric photos on his ID card and passport. I'm asking you as Home Secretary if it's possible for police officers and officers to only photograph a person who, according to them, violates government regulations and then identify this person and subpoena the competent authorities, and if this is possible and legal procedure, if you don't want to recommend here in conflict situations where police officers in the finals brutally interfere with mothers with children and when a stolile policeman kneels at the neck of a 50-pound mom with children in front of her six-year-old child. I will now read you another example from the field where an unqualified and unlearned police officer nearly killed an immobile diabetic patient: "My name is Simona Milátová. I carry out the activities of a private nurse in the Frýdlant region and surrounding municipalities. My work involves bypassing patients who are unable to commute to their offices. Today, 3. 3. 2021 at 7.40 o'clock, I went to a planned blood collection at a house in Malenovice. The patient was fasting and diabetic, which means she can't have breakfast. I was apprehended by a patrol of six police officers. First, they wanted ID, and after the presentation and the inspection, they asked me what I wanted there. I explained the situation to them. They didn't believe me, which is why I opened up and showed a medical suitcase designed to work as a nurse in the field. They told me I was rude to go home and get a receipt. So I got home, where I printed out a statement that I was allowed to work in the district, added a copy of the registration decision of the ZP and went back to Malenovice again. I submitted these documents to the policeman after studying, he told me he couldn't see that I was a doctor. I raised his voice to warn him that from the beginning I claim to be a nurse. He told me not to be rude again. I asked my name, too, about complaining, and he yelled at me, so I could take a picture of them and shoot them. The other five police officers were standing by. Since the patient has been waiting for an empty period of more than an hour for collection and diabetes, I have warned the police that this function is becoming extreme for a possible hypoglycaemic coma." Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u93	Thank you. The Minister will reply in writing. I'm gonna ask you to keep time, even this time... yeah, okay, that was a few seconds. The next is Mrs Pekarová Adamová, but she withdrew her interview, so Mr František Navrkal will perform with an interview with Minister Jan Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u94	Hello. Dear Minister, first... if you would pay attention, Minister... the first vaccines against COVID-19 arrived in the Czech Republic at the end of December last year. This is already more than 1 million vaccine doses. This is even a few thousand more than the December government strategy envisaged, despite all of the supplier's production capacity outages. [[16.20 hours]] However, vaccination does not take place at the same rate in the Czech Republic. This is mainly due to the different numbers of vaccines given by individual regions from the government. Some regions are far worse off than others. According to data from the Institute of Health Information and Statistics, only 8 530 ampoules of Pfizer/BioNTech, Moderna and AstraZeneca vaccine arrived on 3 March. By comparison, the second from the bottom is the Central Bohemian Region with 12 ampoules per 1,000 inhabitants, Prague has received more than twice the population, namely 25 ampoules per 1,000 inhabitants, and the national average is about 15 ampoules per 1,000 inhabitants. I believe that the distribution of vaccines should be approximately consistent with the population of individual regions. And that the Ústí Region is about 20 per cent behind the peloton, I clearly consider it unfair. I would therefore like to ask you why the citizens of the Ústí Region received so many less vaccines than in other regions. Do you think the health of the residents of the Ústí Region is as important as the health of people living in other parts of our country? And according to what rules did the government distribute and distribute vaccines into individual regions? Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u95	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u96	Mr President, Mr Member, ladies and gentlemen. Basic facts about vaccination in the Ústí Region to date: 45 342 registered, 34 270 total doses. Average vaccination rate 510 persons per day and region in 20 vaccination sites. Registered is 11 296 employees in education, 18 422 people between 70 and 80 years old, about 34 000 were delivered to the region - or 33 930 doses Pfizer, 4 700 Moderna, 7 000 AstraZeneca. Inoculated 9 829 people over 80 years of age, 16 211 health professionals, 4 862 employees and clients of social services. This means, from Pfizer, 76.36 % is inoculated, that is, if I wanted to compare it, it is from the end of the second region in the Republic, where Jihočeský Bohemia has priority with 99 percent, 40 percent used Moderny, where it is the fourth rungs from the end. The best is the Olomouc Region with 98 percent,15,6 % AstraZeneca, which is the 6th place from the end. Best Olomouc with 45 percent. In the next 30 days, we see 1 000 seats available in the system, 46 percent of the announced capacity of vaccination centres, so from my point of view, it is possible to increase it to essentially twice that. As far as maximum capacity is concerned, the Ústí Region indicated the possibility of inoculating up to 11,500 citizens a day. As in all regions, benefits are allocated to the Ústí Region according to the 65+ key. However, it is true that the Ústí Region is still slightly undervalued in deliveries. With regard to the delivery of vaccines in the context of arithmetic rounding, we are now trying to correct the situation and gradually increase the supply to the region so that the situation in all regions is aligned, but again I remind you that at present there is no problem in the region because it could not be vaccinated because there are no vaccines in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u97	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u98	Thank you for your answer. I appreciate the promise that the situation will be levelled, and I will check that it will actually happen. Anyway, I'm wondering how this current imbalance that you yourself have acknowledged has come about. How is it that I do not know that in the Ústí Region there is such a below-average proportion of the risk groups of the population to be vaccinated in priority or something similar? And I also understand that there has been an anomaly here in Prague, because there is a centralization of health care throughout the Czech Republic and so on. But again, the Ústí Region is an anomaly in the opposite sense that it is again completely anomalously below averagely vaccinated and below average stocked. So I'm really wondering how this came about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u99	Thank you. The Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u100	I will answer the same question last time, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, that, in the very first days, the estimated key was used according to how the regions defined that they would be able to vaccinate, which they may not yet know exactly, and since mid-January this key has been used and is being supplemented. I'm just pointing out that at the moment when we're delivering even more vaccines to this region, there'd be even more of them that aren't vaccinated. So at a time when you currently have 76 percent Pfizer, 40 percent Modern and 15 percent AstraZeneca inoculated, so when you have more doses, it would only be more in your warehouses. So from this point of view, I want to make it clear that we are going to do everything we can to make it completely fair, but I just point out that the larger delivery of this vaccine at the moment would not have led to any shortage for the citizens of this region, at least based on the way the vaccinations are currently taking place. Because at the moment there is quite a good pool vaccine, which if all were vaccinated, it in itself would significantly increase the number of vaccinated people in the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u101	Thank you. Next, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u102	Yes, thank you. Dear Minister, thank you for coming to the interview today. I want to ask about compensation for companies that are not directly closed by government measures, but because they are directly linked, for example, to closed restaurants, hotels, shops, so their sales fell dramatically. These are, for example, suppliers of services such as laundry rooms or suppliers of goods to restaurants. They've all fallen through a network of inconspicuous, chaotic programs. For 2020, they were not entitled to almost any compensation except 60 per cent of the cost of the employees from Antivirus B and at the end of the year from COVID - Rent. This, however, did not address most of their ongoing costs and exhausted their own reserves. Getting credit in this situation without perspective is very difficult for them. Although there will be a chance for these companies in the upcoming new programme, this is a certain shift, and originally from your comments it was concluded that the new programme will solve the problem of compensation for the fourth quarter, the last quarter of last year. However, today you say that the program will be set strictly from 1 February. So I want to ask, how will the compensation for the fourth quarter be solved for these indirectly affected sectors? After all, it is not possible for the government to forbid anything, as a result it paralyzes the economic life of companies, but then it pretends that there is no problem or that it forgets, that it will be cut off, or maybe it will talk itself out of it. So I want to ask you, Minister, what solution do you have for them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u103	Thank you, too, and the Minister will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u104	Hello, Mr President, honourable Member, I think you read a lot of media. You're still using the word chaotic. I think Henry Kissinger once said that every opposition always blames the government for being chaotic and inconsistent, even in normal times. Yes, we're in chaotic times, you're right about that. But we can't help it in that time. We didn't make Covid up. We're all victims, and you're not responsible for him. It's not us, it's not businessmen, it's nobody, and we're trying to fight it in some way. Those programs that gradually got together aren't chaotic, they're programs that the businessmen have prepared. It's programs we've been dealing with, and, yes, we've always said that we're not going to be able to capture every single one of them, I mean positive, which means we'd be saturating 1.5 million entrepreneurs. But all those who were affected really by the first blow, which means they had an establishment closed down, they certainly didn't have bad support for us. If you look, last year it was 230 billion crowns for businessmen. If we convert it to a day, it was almost a billion. Which I'm not saying that everyone is happy, and I'm not saying that we didn't make any mistakes, and I'm not saying that, especially in the spring months, it might have been better. As far as the disciplines concerned are concerned, everyone, like in other countries, has the right to the most essential cost and compensation, and these are wages, whether at 100 per cent or at 60 per cent. That's one thing. Second thing. all the larger suppliers, and abroad it is quite common, even have it significantly more than we do in flipping into indirect support, draw warranty options. This means that we have put tens of billions of crowns in the guarantees, those guarantees are provided and it is for larger companies, of course, or for medium-sized companies. I also take it that somebody doesn't want to go into the guarantees from the commercial, wholesale companies, and we have prepared some other solutions for them as well. Soon I'll tell you how we're going to approach them. [[16.30 hours]] Yet we heard what the laundromats or other companies said - it was far from just laundry rooms, it was optics, it was florists, and I don't know who else they could be open, but they have a relatively large drop in sales. We gave them back, that's since the fall wave, pay rent. Yes, it's 50 percent. This means that all those who were open were not blocked, but had a fall in sales, they can draw because the rent is certainly not meaningless to them, to have paid wages, to have paid contributions, even if of course only for those who are on the obstacles, so at the moment they still have 50 percent of the rent. But these companies were selling, Mr. Ambassador, these companies worked. Some had a drop in sales of 30 percent, some 70 percent. At this point, we're incredibly hard to move on to get everyone into this. But we took this plea, and since the fall wave, their rents have been paid back. For the next one. Yes, now we're preparing another program, already final, which means that out of the ten programs we scrambled it in order to about four programs and in addition to the wage compensation program, in addition to the compensation bonus, which is double, that is CZK 30,000, next to the so-called per capita program, which is over CZK 400 employees, so all the companies that are suppliers can now reload - and it will, of course, be backwards, but from February - they will be able to draw even from 10 January, probably, they will be able to draw not CZK 400, but CZK 500 on each employee. So if the supplier company has, like wholesale, 30 employees, it's going to have a drop in sales, like 30 times 500, it's 15,000 a day, times 30, I'm counting at a speed, it's 450,000 for this company. If he doesn't want this program and says he may have few employees, it's a wholesale company, then he'll be able to draw on the so-called "uncovered costs," which is what you might have mentioned. And at the same time, I realize one more thing. You said gas station suppliers. Yes, you're right about that. But it is hard to distinguish who is a supplier to the gas station and who, for example, supplied to retail companies that drove normally. And there are companies that had a fall of 50 percent, and then there are companies that had a fall of only 20 percent. That means, at this point, we're going to be dealing with this by getting all the companies that have clearly defined turnover declines into the scope of the aid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u105	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u106	I'll respond to the first part first, Minister. Yes, the government, in my opinion, is also not responsible for the appearance of covid in the world. But what is your responsibility is that you weren't prepared for the fall wave, that the programs were created very hectically, very chaoticly, and the summer season wasn't about preparing yourself for variants of compensation programs in advance. Maybe we can save ourselves a lot of these complaints. Second thing. You said here: 60 per cent per employee, which I repeated also, from Antivirus B, who are on the obstacle, and COVID - Rent. But it's not all the costs of the companies. The remaining 40 per cent, when employees are at an obstacle, 100 per cent of the cost of employees' wages, which must also work in the fall of sales, the repayment of loans for modernisation when someone is not renting, is in their own, the cost of this activity at all. You guys didn't even think about this. Yes, you say backwards, but you say from February 1st... or January 10th... [[Time.]] [[Time.]] So what's your solution for the fourth quarter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u107	I beg you to keep your time. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u108	Well, that your government didn't treat it this way responsibly in 2008, 2009, 2010... That's so great! I was in business at the time. Two years we were at 30% decline in sales, I mean 30 percent, which resulted in the fact that we did not receive a crown from you, Mr. Ambassador. But not one crown. Compensation for wages: it did not exist. Cost compensation over rent: did not exist. Compensation per head: did not exist. We got nothing. We only got an offer of certain guarantees that were at the tenth level today. We spend almost a billion a day in the economy today. And what you said about the shops. Yes, but let's remember that some of them worked. This means: we cannot give someone 100% compensation for wage costs if it has only a certain decline. When it's at zero, it's 100 percent, but if it's down to 40, 50, 60 percent, then it goes to 60 percent of its wages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u109	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar apologizes today from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 17 a.m. to the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of Defence. At this moment, Mrs Olga Richterová will speak with an interview with Minister Jana Maláčová. Mr Antonín Staněk will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u110	[[Coming to the speaker's desk, he says hello off the microphone with Secretary Schiller.]] Thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that at least the Secretary of Finance is here, since Minister Maláčová is no longer here. This is a topic concerning the financing of children's groups, where the majority of children's groups are financed by the fact that they receive half of the income needed for operation from the subsidy, are financed from the European Social Fund, and the second half of the parents' contribution to kindergarten, to attendance. And now they're closed because of the government's regulation, they're gonna be entitled to that grant European money. But my parents won't pay anymore if the kids don't go to kindergarten, to a children's group. And in this case, it's a situation that's new, and it hasn't been completely closed yet, and those children's groups are facing a difficult dilemma about how they're going to survive if they don't have the money to pay the rent, if they don't have the money to spend the extra operating costs and they have to pay employees a salary of 100 percent of their salary, which is correct. However, how can they survive? How do you make them survive the forced closure? The point is that the conditions for drawing a subsidy from the European Social Fund forbid any other state, i.e. covid aid. Bottom line, we have about 16,000 places in children's groups, places to care for the smallest children. We urgently need these places to stay, survive the covido period, and at the same time, parents, who have already lost their incomes in the vast majority of cases, simply at the moment those children do not go to kindergarten, so they do not intend to pay their contributions, which would, of course, make it possible to bridge it, and I do not blame them. What will the state do about it when it forced the children's groups to close? I'll be waiting for a written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u111	Thank you. Yes, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Mrs Richter is off the microphone debating with Secretary Schiller.]] At this point, Mr Antonín Staněk will speak to Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Mr. Lukáš Bartoň will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u112	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u113	I'm gonna ask you guys not to deal with...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u114	So, Mr President, colleagues, Madam Minister, to begin with, my respect and thanks for coming to the interview and you are here at this time. Let me ask you a few questions in connection with the contract of Prague Airport, concluded with JCDecaux, urban furniture, limited liability company. The contract concerns the lease of the Prague airport's interior space for advertising purposes and is to generate annual rents for Prague Airport amounting to CZK 62 million, which is from 1. 1. 2021 increased to 74 million. I intend to say: it is to generate because according to the information I have, the rent is not paid properly for the long term and neither is it paid by the company Prague Airport, a. s., the payment of the rent properly enforced in accordance with the contract concluded and applicable laws. I would also point out that JCDecaux, the urban furniture company, the limited liability company, is not entirely unknown to the company. It is the same business entity that started the arbitration of a billion crowns against the Czech Republic on 16 September 2020 in the case of the concluded contract with the Transport Enterprise of the capital city of Prague. I have two questions. For what reason does Prague Airport allow long-term non-payment, many months' delay, JCDecaux, city furniture, under contract? And why doesn't the company Prague Airport use in the recovery of the rent penalty, which allows it to enter into a contract?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u115	Time. I've had a question answered, but let's try to keep an eye on our interpellation time. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Member, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to inform you that JCDecaux is late with part of the payment at Prague Airport for 2020 and at the same time asked for a discount as a result of an ongoing pandemic. Given that the limitation period for claims of this type is completely excluded under the law of the Czech Republic three years after their creation, the risk of any weakening or loss of claim at the moment of the Prague Airport is completely excluded. Prague Airport examines, like the standard did and does in the case of dozens of other commercial relations, the possibility of maintaining the contract and the framework for providing discounts with care to a proper economy. Prague Airport received an expert analysis in mid-February which, in assessing the status of the advertising market and its expected development of the economic aspects of the contract, led to a discount mechanism and a new set-up of the contract so that the Prague Airport ensures a stable return on the contract and that the contractual relationship on the economic advantage principle for the airport can continue. Currently, Prague Airport is opening a business meeting with JCDecaux regarding the new setup of the contract, the aim of which is to resolve 2020 and set up the mechanism for this year and the coming years. In the event that the agreement is not reached, Prague Airport will recover the claims including interest on late payment in court, because, as I have already stated, the claim of Prague Airport is not weakened by the ongoing negotiations and is still ongoing. Let me conclude by stressing that this is an issue which falls entirely within the scope of the company's business management, which is in accordance with the legislation fully within the competence of the Prague Airport management company. And it follows from the above decision that the company's management is intensively involved in this matter and I believe that it will also be properly resolved under the supervision of the supervisory authorities of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u117	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u118	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answer. However, the question was also in connection with the fact that a number of Czech smaller companies are operating at the Prague Airport, which are unfortunately not exempt from the payment of small rents, and the question is: Why do we favour large super foreign companies that, for example, lead arbitration with us and not give small Czech companies a chance? I understand that companies such as Ranchero Food, Lagardere, Mövenpick and others are big contracts, almost 90% in that space, but even small Czech companies would deserve a chance and help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u119	Thank you. Madam Secretary will answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u120	I was focused, Mr. Ambassador, on the answer to the company you asked about because it was primarily, but I think my answer showed that this is the standard solution of the Prague Airport, which means that it communicates with other companies as well. I don't think any size matters there, on the contrary, if the company is smaller, it could have bigger problems than the big one. So I, of course, if you had a specific question about specific companies - I didn't check all of them, that's standard procedure, they're going towards everyone the same way. But if you have any specific questions then, of course, interpel me or bypass me. I'm ready to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u121	Thank you. Next, Mr Lukáš Bartoň will speak to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Member Ondřej Polanský will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u122	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister - absent again. I'd like to ask, when are the kids coming back to school? What happens in three weeks? Will the children return to school - kindergarten, primary school, first, second grade, special schools - in three weeks at all times? Will he come back if there's a better situation or if it's the same or when it's worse? I'd like to know your plan for what's going to happen. I would like to know your plan to test pupils in schools, whether the tests that have been bought are suitable for children's population, whether we are ready to test hundreds of thousands of pupils in schools, whether we have already completed pilot projects and everything tested? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u123	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. The next will be Mr Ondřej Polanský. Mr. Jiří Mihola will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues, dear government. I'll transfer you to traffic for a moment. In particular, my question is very simple. What, Minister, is the financial condition of the Czech Railways? Aren't you currently in danger of reducing Moody's index? Are you dealing with the possibility of what would happen if the debt was due? Are there any asset sales at risk, or are you thinking, for example, about the sale of Carg? What are the possibilities of the State to help in the event of financial problems? Among other things, in the next three months, there is to be a sale of pumping stations for diesel engines in 60 locations. This is to happen without a tender and without verification of the market price. The same goes for the so-called distribution places of the Czech Railways for loading and unloading, in order of hundreds of places. The sale of the most lucrative is to go to Cargo, the rest to the Railway Administration, but also without verifying the market price. Can you explain that in some way? And one last thing. The Czech Railways reportedly lost a billion crowns last year just because they did not hold the exchange rate of the koruna and the euro. Can you confirm it or deny it? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u125	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u126	Hello, again. As far as the financial condition of České dráhy is concerned, you know that České dráhy is obliged as a state enterprise to communicate first with its creditors, with bondholders and so on. However, when we look at it, the normal statement associated with the rating always takes place in April, so in April everything will be carefully published, communicated, and I think there will be a discussion about it. As far as the Czech Railways are concerned, of course, they did not go through a simple time last year, like other carriers. At certain times, especially at a time when the pandemic was really on those higher levels of the number of infected, 20 percent of passengers were riding in order, which of course had a very negative impact on the management of not only the Czech Railways but all carriers. Nevertheless, we can say that at present, from the point of view of cash flow, there are billions of crowns in the Czech Railways accounts. I was still very quick to verify that to date it is more than CZK 5 billion for the whole group of České dráhy. However, with regard to the next months, of course, this will be difficult. However, the Czech Railways meet the required criteria for both the liquidity of their own company and the liquidity of the whole group. Of course, we had to respond to this, or the state that has its participation within the Supervisory Board, so, in my view, the Supervisory Board has very rationally approached the resolution of the whole crisis. It is saved in the Czech Railways, it is not saved on investment, it is important to say. I can calm you down, we're not planning any sale of capital goods, we're trying to save money, or the Czech Railways, to be more precise, are trying to save money on traffic. You may have also noticed that the Czech Railways may have set an example to other companies of this nature in the state regime when they touched their wages. But beware, only in terms of management and in terms of administration, in simple terms, officials, that is, for this year they have reduced their basics, which is not quite normal. On the contrary, for the so-called field staff, this means for those who are directly connected with the railway service or the railway and the service they provide, so on the other hand, it increased a little bit. By actually including in addition the supergross wage and its abolition, the impact will be quite positive for those who are so-called the first line of the Czech Railways. And there is really a need to highlight all those who experienced the crisis in direct contact with passengers, whether they were conductors, whether they were people behind the bulkheads and so on. [[16.50 hours]] So, among other things, the Czech Railways responded by supplementing and strengthening the management team, a new CEO came there. It's not -- I call it -- no parachutist from some, say, fast-track company that suddenly shows up. He is a man who is conjoined with the český Railways, a man who was the head of the most important subsidiary of ČD Cargo, had very good results there. And this new manager has experience with crisis management, let's say the cost savings management regime, and he added a very convenient team. So he became the head of the board and the current director and chairman of the board who was there became his vice-chairman, and he will continue to do, let's say, the pro-growth things that were well done there. However, the situation is not such as to look only at the growth today. We must also save in addition to the necessary investments, which will be realized and realized, which the český species can manage at the same time. So there's no sale of capital goods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u127	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u128	Thank you, part of it answered. The rest of the question is, why are those petrol stations sold without a tender and without verifying the market price? The same applies to loading and unloading sites. They are again sold without verification of the market price. After that, the loss of a billion crowns due to managerial misconduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u129	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u130	As far as the gas stations are concerned, that's where I'm gonna find out what mode it's selling. I really can't say this right now because it's under the control of the Supervisory Board, and I'm not on the Supervisory Board, but I can find out. I do not know that there should be a loss of one billion crowns in risky or exchange rate operations. Again, I'll check it out. But it seems to me as you say it, strongly exaggerated. I'm sure it's not a loss caused by exchange rate operations. There could just be a time shift. But I'm gonna find out, I really don't know it now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u131	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Mihola will speak to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u132	Hello, dear absent Minister. At the time of the covido pandemic, Czech education is one of the most tested areas and many impacts on it, and especially on students and students will unfortunately be fatal. All the more important is the readiness, expertise and transparency of all other important steps and changes. However, the revision of the Framework Educational Programme is carried out somewhat insidiously behind the covid cloud. How is it possible that such an important matter has not been dealt with professionally in particular with those most concerned? I cannot rule out the fact that an individual had information, but I know that teachers and other experts were shocked not only by undisputed changes and cuts, but also by the overall approach of the Ministry of Education. As a historian and teacher, I have a very critical view of changes in history and homeland science. To sum it up, even as colleagues who were able to express themselves to me, they consider the insensitive, insensitive and undisputed interference with the RVP to be a blow to the solar of historical consciousness and the awareness of our nation. There is a risk that the revision of the framework education programmes will end in shame and fiasco. Minister, wouldn't the new Framework Education Programme be a solution to nullify and address the critical comments of teachers and the professional public? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u133	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček and Mrs Věra Balcarová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u134	Dear Minister, the last year and the endless fight against the disease pandemic COVID-19 has changed the lives of most of us significantly. Many people find themselves in a difficult life situation, sometimes leading to an existential crisis. The pandemics and government measures had a huge impact on the CFI, which were not able to carry out their business activity on the basis of the crisis measures of the government, not only because of the limitation or total prohibition of their activities, but some of the circumstances were complicated by the fact that they had to take care of children or other persons dependent on their care. Yes, most of these people were helped by compensation bonuses and infirmary, but some groups fell out of this rescue ring. For example, foster caregivers who depended on the help of another person and at the same time were self-employed. I'm asking why that happened. Such foster parents did not meet the conditions for granting aid in the winter challenge, which were defined differently than in the spring call. The hook consisted in the fact that in the winter challenge only the person who operated the CFI as the main activity could apply for the infirmary. In the case of foster parents, however, their business is automatically viewed as a secondary activity, as the main activity is considered as a foster activity. It's a little crazy, and maybe, Minister, you'll agree. Therefore, I ask you why in the spring, foster parents cared for the person who depended on them were included in the program of the infirmary, while not in the winter wave of the pandemic anymore. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u135	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u136	Hello. Yes, it is true that fostering is viewed by the state as the main employment, and self-employed foster care is then regarded as a secondary activity. But since the beginning of the infirmary, we've been paying only those who were on the main job. Now, I don't remember spring, and I don't want to shoot here right now, but I'm almost certain that even in the spring it was so that it was only within the main job. If anyone was collateral damage, he wasn't entitled to the infirmary. As a general rule, the infirmary was never historically entitled to it, it's just a whole new thing. But since it started to be implemented - and basically right - for the employees, so we responded and we said: so that the tradesmen would not be handicapped in this, so here in the spring the infirmary was introduced and there was basically a pairing with the infirmary in exactly the same regime as it did for persons so-called dependent. So if it was back then, if I'm not mistaken, on a level of up to 10 years, it was up to 10 years, when it went up to 13 years, so we picked it up to 13 years. I mean, for businessmen. It was the same amount if I'm not mistaken. At first it was approximately 13,000 a month, it was some 400 crowns a day. Then it was 500 kroner a day, it went up to 15,000. So we kept copying it exactly the same way we did with the employees. But the only thing, let's say, the brake there was that if someone else had income somewhere, logically, he had social benefits from that income. That means, then he can draw the benefit within his other income, the main income, the main activity, and thus the secondary activity we have not dragged into it. So, yes, you're right that this foster thing, as you said exactly, is perceived as a secondary activity, so they couldn't fall into it in general. If we put it there, at that point, we actually have all of the secondary activities, and I think we could get to a whole other place with expenses. But I'm gonna check to see if there was any exception to that foster home that spring. I don't really remember it that way right now, but I feel like it wasn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u137	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in a supplementary question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u138	Thank you for your answer. It is important that in other challenges this continues in the regime, as it was, and so whether it is those who care for the dependent who depend on their care that are included there. And if it wasn't possible that if it was in the challenge, it would somehow make up for the infirmary, when they couldn't receive it, given that they didn't have the opportunity to change their activities - the main self-employed, because fostering is always the main activity. So they immediately fell out of the system. Whether it would not be possible for them to do so in any way, given the situation in which they are and care and care for people dependent on their care, so whether it would not be possible to replace it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u139	Is the Minister interested in an answer? [[Minister Havlíček: No.]] So let's move on to the interview that Mrs Dana Balcarová will bring to the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec. The next one will be prepared by Mr Tomáš Martínek. Mrs. Balcarová is not present, so Tomáš Martínek. The Member will give an interview to Minister Blatný. Mr. Jakub Janda will then be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u140	Dear Minister Blatný, I would like to thank you in advance for the amendment of the regulation of 26 February, where efficiency changed according to the FFP2 standard from 95 to 94 percent, which I pointed out. However, it is still not clear from the regulation how Meltblow or nanofilters and submarines can be used. On the web of academics and students of the Technical University of Liberec rouskystulkou.org protocols are available from the Labour Safety Research Institute and the Institute for Testing and Certification, which demonstrate a minimum of 81 percent Meltblow filter capture, which is more than some KN95 respirators according to Aaron Günsberger's test. This is confirmed by the dTest test when inserting the filter into a washed textile drape, which even gives protection at 100 per cent for the drips. If a textile drape with a filter pocket and a wire for nose modeling is used, the drape is then sealed well. This proves the test of the State Institute of Nuclear, Chemical and Biological Protection, which the academics who work on rouskystulkou.org have had to process. Since many companies use nanofilters or meltblow filters for their employees, I would like to ask you: Can Meltblow or nanofilters be used outside or indoor, including companies, for existing measures? Can they also be used in public transport or shops? Can you also assure citizens that effective submarines can be used as protection in public transport or shops? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u141	Thank you and I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u142	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry has prohibited all persons, with effect from 1 March, from moving and staying without breathing protection, such as a respirator or a similar device and so on, who meet certain standards. Exceptional measures do not provide for specific products. It says, for example, "with the designation FFP2, KN95, N95" and so on, but only specifies the minimum framework that the product must fulfil. This form was chosen precisely because of the wide range of products on the Czech market that meet these standards. According to our information, products fulfilling standards such as the Australian Community, Japan, South Korea and beyond are also present on the Czech market, and on a specific level it can therefore be said that a product which bears the designation of nano or other sub-labels fulfilling the filtration efficiency of at least 94 per cent, which is the European standard number 149 or 90 per cent, which is the standard of Great Britain or the PRC, GB 2626, as stated in the emergency measure, can be used without difficulty. The only problem may be that when this filter insert is inserted into something that may look different, especially in public then it may be a problem how to prove it or how to do it in some way to verify and trace it. It's easier for health masks, there's only enough product without the name of nano if it has the standard that we're talking about. That means I'm going to repeat it once more: it's only determined by the filtration capability. I'm just pointing out that especially if this kind of protection is carried in public and it is not proven that it is this filter capability, this product that it has, then whoever wears it can get into trouble, like if it is controlled by police, soldiers or someone else. Whereas, at a time when the label is clearly visible, it is a commercial product, then it is much easier. But the standard itself doesn't say that it couldn't be some of what you're saying. There's only the filtration capability that the device must have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u143	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u144	Maybe just for the sake of assurance. For meltblow filters inserted into textile drapes, so actually the regulation is intended for two parts. In one are required respirators with the efficiency of FFP2, surgical drapes are sufficient for the other part - this applies to companies or outdoor use. If I take that the meltblown filter has an efficiency of 81 percent according to the protocols available, then if you can confirm that using the meltblow filter in the sealing cotton mask means that you can use this way at least in companies or outdoor applications, because there is a de facto efficiency required by surgical masks, which is actually the second lower standard, at least for wearing in companies, outside public transport and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u145	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Yes, especially in businesses or in companies it's quite simple, because there is an employer who equips employees here with this. And if he remembers something that meets this condition, which, of course, what you're talking about, this type of filter, meets the criterion as well as a surgical drape, he can carry it there. Again, I'm just saying, if the employee goes out with it after that, where he's controlled by someone, there might be some problems that are more likely to be checked out. But if it is provided by the employer, then the employer, if he fulfilled this recommendation of this filtration ability, did not break the regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u147	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček, and Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u148	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, two important cities in the Moravian-Silesian Region, Ostrava and Frýdek-Místek connect 13 kilometers long and mainly paid motorway section D56. Drivers therefore avoid this section and drive through adjacent municipalities. It runs 10,000 cars a day, causing a number of problems, high exhaust emissions, noise, dust and, last but not least, the threats to children who go to school here. The mayors of local municipalities therefore wrote a petition signed by over 10,000 people to cancel the fee. In one of the affected municipalities - in Žabni - there was also a protest blockade. But your ministry insists that the D56 be continued to be charged. It is a section that is a pseudo-road rather than a freeway and also a kind of bypass. It therefore meets the conditions for it to be able to go there without a road sign. Your ministry argues that the traffic situation is only temporary due to construction on the D48 motorway - but that is only part of reality. My questions are quite simple. Why does the Ministry of Transport insist on charging the D56 motorway section when there are clearly conditions for its forgiveness? And the second question: How do you intend to help the inhabitants of the municipalities in that village who are suffering from a traffic disaster? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u149	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u150	Thank you for asking. That answer has two levels. The first one's the easier one. The moment we do this on this section and we succumb to what you say people are protesting there or perhaps even demonstrating, I guarantee you that at that point they will demonstrate on every section where they would not want to pay any fee. And at that point, I'm just asking logically what we're gonna fix these highways from. The charges are not because we pay civil servants' wages. The charges are so that we can invest in motorways. And you know very well that after a time of darkness that took place here sometime between 2010 and 2014, when almost nothing was invested, today they are investing resources that everyone could only dream of. Among other things, this is also because fees are payable. Of course, it's not just because, it's from the budget, it's all true. But the fees don't play a very small part in it. So, yes, you're right that he can take himself out, we can always do that, but we can also say that the communication in this corresponds to the so-called power-charged communication. [[17.10 hours]] That means it could be one way or another. That means, at the moment, we are leaning not to make exceptions. I understand the situation there, and I've been talking to people who are at the city hall, and I've been talking to the local police. We talked about how to solve this. We were also talking about the parallel road that runs next door, because now it's being repaired. That means, we've been dealing with whether really and to what extent it would really be threatening or threatening that those who don't want to pay are driving next door. The police can't measure it exactly, they're not sure what would have caused it all if we canceled this place right now, which, of course, would have been effective, it would have looked nice, but in a year, we're gonna have a reconstruction, and what's next? I guarantee you that no government that will be here will have the courage to put it there again. We can talk about other things: why was it there at the time - and just look who was pulling strings back then - so why did it charge back then? I'd say yes, it was on the line, whether it was on the line or not. But at the moment, when it's introduced, when it's going to be charged, unfortunately, we're in a situation where it gets extremely complicated, because if we do that, believe it -- and that's the question of other governments -- at that point, all of us, where it's just gonna be a little bit of a drag, they're gonna demonstrate, and they're gonna want those fees not to be paid, and we're gonna be in a terrible loop. So our recommendation is to finish there this year, to suffer it - I understand it's not pleasant when the road modernizes when it invests there. But at the moment, we've been doing some research on the side road, and there's quite a lot of people living there, and it's not quite clear that the traffic that's there is just because the cars just or the trucks or whoever's diverting and driving on the side road. It's complicated there, I agree, but at the moment we agreed with the experts that it would not be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u151	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u152	Thank you, I'm interested. I'm just gonna mention here if five kilometers of motorways are progress, but we're not gonna deal with that. My second part concerned how you intend to help those residents who are affected by this, how you will deal with it further - 10,000 cars a day - that is quite a lot of traffic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u153	Is the Minister interested in an answer? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u154	There's no major help at the moment. At this point, it's about multiple police patrols. At this point, it's just that the local government or the community will try to label it so that they don't go there. It's all theoretically possible, but just as the roads are being repaired elsewhere, we just have to fix the road, which means there's no other option than driving the side road at the moment. But it's not there, please nicely, so that those who drive around here on the charge suddenly figured out the next one. We've actually done our research, and it's true that it's a simple survey so far, it's not exactly an extra detail, and it hasn't been shown that those who go through these villages are the ones who would normally be on the freeway. That means, along the highway as well as elsewhere where it is being repaired, the traffic is slowed down, yes, that will be waiting for us there in the coming months, but at that point, we just can't figure out much about it. I certainly don't think there's a way it's gonna stop, stop charging. Seriously, believe me, we'll get in the loop.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u155	Thank you. At this moment, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová will speak to Minister Jan Hamáček, and Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u156	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear absent Secretary of the Interior, Hamáček, my question is very simple. I would like to know, and, of course, citizens all want to know what the government's plan is after 28 March. If the serious and critical situation that we are unfortunately in does not change, will it not improve how the government will continue to act, what will it do next? It is not possible to leave citizens, our businessmen in doubt. They should know a certain plan, some strategy that they might be able to plan ahead of time. Now, for example, here's the question: will the students even graduate? One day you will read that they will be graduating, the next day I will read on the Internet from Mr. Babiš that the graduations will not be, that they will be official or official graduations, so I would be interested and all the others also: citizens have enough of your hasty and senseless decisions, such as: we close the racing cafeteria, we open them again the next day, we close them up, so we will open them eventually, but of course with restrictions. It would be good to really give clear information to citizens in time so that they can arrange for this in some way. In other countries, this works, take an example from the UK, which has also gone through a severe crisis, and the strategy has been different, and I dare say much better, because awareness is really the basis, and our citizens know basically nothing. And it's not possible to say things from day to day - restrictions will be tomorrow, tomorrow and so on. Tell us what's coming after March 28th, as you see it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u157	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At this point, Mr Patrik Nacher will speak to the Minister of Education Robert Plaga, and Mr Ondřej Profant will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u158	Dear absent Minister of Education, of course I would like to ask you what will happen in schools not only in those three weeks, as has been said here, what will happen in the summer, how the summer months will be used for the blackout, which is absolutely unprecedented because parents ask, children etc. However, my interpelation will be directed at something else, because at this very time, when the covid is being dealt with, the Ministry approved the material, the gender equality plan for 2021 to 2024. The main objective of this four-year strategy is, please, to achieve a situation where there will be equal conditions to work and access to education and career not only for women and men, but also for members and members of sexual minorities. What is interesting, then, is that part of the plan also relates to the way in which the new textbooks are assessed - that is, I am very interested in this - for primary school pupils and will be judged not only on a professional basis but also on the basis of how their content takes account of gender equality. If they don't comply, they won't be approved for teaching. Moreover, the plan envisages a gender update. As I read, for example, in the Middle Ages, men, not women, need to be balanced in some way. The paradox of the situation is that this material was prepared by women themselves, since we are already on the balance. I wonder, I would like to ask the Minister, though he is not here, really, if at this time, at this time, the capacity in the Ministry is being used in the right direction, and if this is the most important thing for us to deal with, what is the goal, and if, on the contrary, the absurdity in some moments does not create the exact opposite of the desired one. Thank you and I will look forward to a written answer, obviously.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u159	Thank you. The interview will be answered in writing. At this point, Mr Ondřej Profant will appear, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Mr Ondřej Profant is not, so I will ask Mr Lubomír Volný to intercede with the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u160	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I would like the Minister of Health to either confirm or disprove the information of the Czech Society of Anesthesiology, resuscitation and intensive medicine of the Czech Medical Society Josef Evangelista Purkyně, who states in his opinion that the use of Bamlanivimab in patients in the Czech Republic is allowed on the basis of an extraordinary, temporary decision by the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic to permit distribution of dispensation and use of this unregistered treatment allowance pursuant to Section 8, paragraph 6 of Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Changes to Some Related Performances. I would also like to know whether the Ministry of Health has acted in the same way or in any other or similar way to legalize the use of Ivermectin in the Czech Republic, whether the import and distribution of benefits which are beyond those that have been delivered to Brno is already ensured in any way. And then the last question is whether the Minister personally assessed the information I personally sent to the Ministry of Health, and whether he discussed the košický protocol used by Dr. Török, a candidate for science, at Košice Hospital, which currently has 80 percent success in treating the most difficult patients. [[17.20 hours]] Miss, you don't have to come, I'll disinfect it myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u161	I must confirm that the Member is doing this thoroughly. Thank you. I'll ask the Minister of Health for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u162	Mr President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, as I think previously mentioned in the context of the interpellation, it is true that yesterday, on the basis of the positive opinion of the Institute for Drug Control, I signed a measure by the Ministry of Health authorising the distribution, supply and use of the unregistered human product Huvemec containing the active substance ivermectin, which is intended for hospitalized patients over 18 years of age. It was imported to a pharmacy at the Faculty Hospital At St. Anne's in Brno, which can also provide it to other hospital pharmacies of other health services providers. So far, the State Institute for Drug Control, which issued its opinion on the basis of which this medicine was authorised in an exceptional exception, as is the case with the second preparation you mentioned, because it is all medicines that are unregistered in the Czech Republic. Moreover, in the case of Ivermectin, it is a medicine that was originally developed completely for a different purpose. I would like to add that Ivermektin is an experimental treatment and is not yet supported by sufficient evidence or sufficient evidence based on evidence based on the so-called evidence-based evidence, the so-called evidence-based medicine. As regards the use of the product in outpatient patients, as I said, this is also planned under a relatively precise protocol, which should standardize this treatment within the Czech Republic, and in particular to allow available information on how the experimental drug actually works and how its effects are needed, which may have a useful weight for further treatment in the future in order to be evaluated. Of course, all of these data are collected, both on efficiency and on the safety of this drug, which in the future can bring both nationally and internationally further information for its use in this indication. As far as Bamlan is concerned, or as you said, the generic name Bamlanivimabu, yes, the acceptance of the exemption is actually exactly the same. It is a monoclonal antibody that targets a part of the virus that is able to inactivate and stop or alleviate the manifestation of the disease. Both of these medicines are used at a time when the disease is not yet serious, with the potential of the antidote being of course greater, because it works targeted to this virus, and is often given where the disease would be particularly severe. The first medicine can also be administered outpatiently, it is oral administration as tablets. The second medicine is given as an infusion in infusion sites, which has been defined to cover all regions of the Czech Republic. So both of these drugs are currently available in the Czech Republic, and both are actually made possible on the basis of the opinion of the SÚKL, on a temporary basis, due to the exemption granted by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u163	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u164	Thank you for your partial answer, Minister. However, I would like you to repeat to me, or to answer another question that you have not answered: What about the import of Ivermectin, if any others have already been ordered? Then if you personally spoke to Dr. Török from the Košice hospital, whose treatment protocol I sent you - the košický protocol - And if the intravenous doses of vitamin C in the size of 1 gram per kilogram on the first day, 0.5 grams per kilogram on the second day, as is the case with the basketary protocol of doktor Török, CSc, who is currently stating and is likely to be able to document from medical records that, while out of the 10 eight patients are dying, eight of the ten patients are leaving their homes healthy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u165	Well, thank you. The Minister is not interested in an answer, so we will proceed to another interview and this is Mr Jan Čižinský with an interview with the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Mr. Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u166	Dear Minister, for the fifth time, I have already consulted on a measure that restricts the arrival of unmarried partners for their counterparts in our country. Some things have been solved, and I'm glad, and thank you for that. We are now dealing with the situation of foreigners from third countries with a long-term stay with us. I got a statement from your deputy, who says there's no release for this group. It argues that around 650 000 foreigners reside in the Czech Republic for a long time and allow their unmarried partners to travel would be contrary to the measures taken. Unfortunately, from this statement I received, I feel that we are back at the beginning when the prime minister here told me from Minister Vojtěch that third-party people don't want it. That was a quote, "Neighbors don't want it." I don't understand the number given. According to data from the Czech Statistical Office, less than 600,000 foreigners lived here at the end of 2019. Madam Secretary presents 650,000, maybe she's got a little different data. But that's the total number of foreigners who live here in the long run. There were less than 350,000 foreigners from third countries, which is already a substantial difference. And then I wonder if you have any idea how many of these aliens have an unmarried partner who can't come here. I'm sure that's just a very small part of the whole thing. So I don't understand why your people operate with the number 650,000. As far as the spread of the disease is concerned, these people are willing to be quarantined upon arrival or any other measures you order them to take. After all, your predecessor, Professor Prymula, admitted last October that restrictions on unmarried couples from an epidemic point of view make no sense. So I have two questions: do you have a qualified estimate of how many people could come here if the remaining travel restrictions for unmarried partners fell? And what led the Ministry to change the view that, I quote: "It is really possible to set up a regime when this person, when he arrives in the Czech Republic, could normally stay here after a certain quarantine regime," as Minister Prymula said in the department on 1 October. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u167	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u168	Mr President, Mr Members, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate the fact that we, as you have said, have managed to resolve many of these issues. And now I'd just like to comment on the current situation, the three-week limitation that is here and that has brought about some major restrictions from this point of view. But I don't think I'm gonna be dealing with specific numbers here right now, but I'm gonna say one very important sentence. Currently, when restricting free movement, which is, regardless of whether a person is from one country or another, neither two partners in the Czech Republic who do not live together, whether married or not, are not allowed to visit outside the county. This means that such restrictions are currently in place also for people who are inside or between two individual districts, that it would not be correct or logical for actually less forceful measures to belong to people from third countries. [[17.30 hours]] Otherwise, I see this need here. As soon as possible, we will return to doing everything we can to ensure that people from third countries can, of course, move as required by their personal relationships. I would now please postpone this matter to the end of the most strict measures that are now in force.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u169	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u170	Thank you. Of course, I'm not gonna protest that it can wait three weeks now. These people have been waiting for over a year. But I would like to ask if I am to understand that after these three weeks, the possibility will now be for the non-married partners to travel to the Czech Republic to their counterparts from third countries, because it is hard to suspect that someone is coming here for other reasons, because the really covid situation here is the worst in the whole world. That means, I'd actually like to make sure that I get it right, that after three weeks, it'll be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u171	The Minister is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Member, I will just confirm that I am trying to make it possible that, in the opinion of some lawyers, we are working together to overcome the obstacles that are preventing this now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u173	Thank you. At this moment, Mr Jan Skopeček will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček. Mr. Jaroslav Vymazal will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u174	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, dear colleagues and colleagues. Minister, I have decided to interpel you on a matter in which representatives of dance schools, who are operating mostly today in the form of a registered association, have contacted me. However, they are organisations that are mostly engaged in extracurricular activities for children and young people. In the Czech Republic there are dance schools around 177. The vast majority of these dance schools have a registered association as a legal form and are dedicated to up to 15,000 dancers. Unfortunately, these associations, these dance schools, fall through a network of various covideo support programs. They fall through the COVID - Rent, they are not entitled to it, although they are organizations which, of course, must rent the premises for their activities under completely market conditions. At this time, they cannot carry out their activities on the basis of restrictions of the Government of the Czech Republic, even though these associations have fixed costs - they have employees, they have leases, they have instalments, they have a number of types of costs, and unfortunately they cannot make money in this situation. While during the spring wave they received support from the National Sports Agency, which partly paid them rent, there is now no such option. Of course, these dance schools are on the brink of strength, they are on the brink of exhaustion, and many of them are at risk of extinction, because they cannot simply survive this situation, where on the one hand they have spending but cannot earn revenue. I wanted to ask you, Minister, whether this situation of dance schools, which are mostly registered as associations, you know and whether you are dealing with this matter. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u175	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u176	Hello. I admit I don't know about the dance schools, but it's due to the fact that platforms or different activities are huge - now I'm not saying it alibistically, because at least I'm going to find out, so it doesn't fall under the MPO. We do business entities. Of course, every business entity, legal person, natural person who gets into trouble, so we try to capture, solve and invent programs for them, whether they are flat or even oriented. In my opinion, this is somewhere on the edge of the sports agency, what they probably have been drawing, perhaps even through culture - I am not quite sure if it falls as a dance school, a dance under this area, and perhaps even under education. But I'm saying again, it's not like I want to get out of it in any way. We need to find them if we are to support them in any way, because the MIT can't legally support anyone other than business entities, which doesn't mean they can't get support somewhere else, which is probably why the National Sports Agency did it in that spring. Well, I'm gonna find out who it's gonna fall under, and if we get together, I'm gonna hook them up and try to figure something out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u177	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u178	Thank you very much, thank you very much, I appreciate this helpfulness. Minister, I have here a list of the 177 dance schools for you. They really are a non-business entity as a registered association, they're actually non-profit organizations. On the other hand, their activities in a wide range of business areas resemble or mimic because they have employment relationships, whether permanent employment conditions or agreements, they simply have costs, expenses as a standard business entity. Although they may not fall into some section of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, I think they deserve support, given that they are in business, but also in view of the fact that it is an activity towards children and towards young people. Just a heads-up: it's not just dance schools. As far as the registered association is concerned, in my opinion, this has been done by a number of other organisations dedicated to youth and children, whether of a sporting, cultural nature, and which would also need some sense of it... [[Time.]] So it's not just about dance schools, it's about them in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u179	Thank you. The Minister won't answer. [[Member Skopeček will pass the list to Minister Havlíček.]] At this moment, Mr Jaroslav Vymazal will speak to Minister Karel Havlíček and will prepare Mr Marek Výborný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u180	Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mr Havlíček, the Minister of Transport, with a request to deal with the situation regarding high-speed weighing. We certainly agree that it is necessary, because our roads are devastated by overcrowded trucks, whether local or foreign carriers, and this destroys our communication and increases the dangers of people, extended braking tracks and so on. If my information is correct, measurement data is supplied from the test site in a format that one worker is able to process, allegedly two offenses per working shift. In the number of offences over 200 per day, it is basically an unsolvable situation for municipalities with extended scope to deal with these offences. Since the reconstruction of the D1 motorway should be completed and these facilities should also be started, the municipalities should basically know what they are on. I don't know if it's up to the Department of Transport to solve this situation by digitalizing it so that the data can be processed in a faster time. This is my question, and at the same time a request for a solution and a request for communication with the municipalities to which this should apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u181	Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u182	Hello. You basically said it all, and basically you said it all right. You described exactly the problem, because at the moment there are 6 to 8,000, at least what I have information, overloaded trucks a month. If we translate it, what it would actually mean for the municipalities and for the employees who have to process it, it's an impossible thing to do. It may seem like a quick solution, but the only way that's here is to fully digitize it. That means it's a solution that won't miss us. Since it's not just related to the weighing, I've set my goal as long as I'm at the Ministry of Transport, set up a system of gradual digitization of the entire office. That's a whole range of other things that have to be done there, and we have to do them a little bit more complex so that it just isn't what the state administration has digitized here for the past 20 years - everyone who had a good idea and had money for it, so something got digitized, a new digital tool was made, but it didn't communicate at all in the finals. [[17.40 hours]] So today we're creating some kind of architecture for the Department of Transport of the entire digital transport... let's say traffic services, this must of course be accentuated and we'd put together five six main things, starting from the driver's license or registration of vehicles to this, and, among other things, the electronic highway system has already marked, and the stamps, was the first step. Or maybe a uniform ticket now. And to wrap all this up, put it under one roof, tie it up, and, of course, this has to be the case. So I'd like the digitalization architecture to be done now in the coming weeks to start working on it immediately, and if I'm still there or not, then there's another thing, but it should start in any case. The moment this gets done, then we can get a full ride on it, and that's the only way we can do it. Mechanically, manually, it's just going to be an infinite process, there's going to be mistakes, and we're going to overload these people completely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u183	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u184	I would just like to thank the Minister for realising the problem, and I would like to see a real solution found and that there will be some communication with those municipalities; that there will be at least a partial solution when the system is already installed in that highway, so that it can move in some way and digitalize as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u185	Thank you. At the moment, Mr Marek is to speak Výborný with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček, but he is not here, so his interpellation is failing. Next up is Mr. Ondřej Benešík, who is not here either, so Mr. Martin Jiránek will perform with his intervention on Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u186	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Hello, Minister. [[There are voices from the diaper.]] I'll be very brief. I had a question about how you wanted to loosen up after a three-week lockdown because you said on Sunday that we should endure, follow the measures, which was definitely a good challenge, and then it will relax. And I wanted to ask you about the plan and any details, but the Prime Minister here told us three hours ago that there was no such plan, so I'm gonna free up the seat for my other colleagues, and we don't really have to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u187	Thank you, the Minister will take this as an answer and we will continue to do so. Mr František Kopřiva is not present, so another Mr Petr Beitl is not present. Mr Jan zahradník will perform with an interview with Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u188	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, in the afternoon part of the matter of replacing the lack of energy from closed coal and non-existent gas core, I have some additional questions for you. Since coal is to end for the purpose of reducing emissions, it is crucial whether the replacement of Czech coal from gas imported from Russia makes sense from this point of view. Because there is a great risk that he doesn't. It is known that small leaks of unburned natural gas into the atmosphere can completely erase all savings obtained by replacing coal with natural gas. According to the AGU Advances study, it is sufficient to escape 3% of the extracted natural gas into the atmosphere in order to completely eliminate greenhouse gas savings from coal combustion. That's kind of an introduction. Now, my questions. Can you define how much of the domestic central heating system is supposed to cover natural gas instead of coal? How much will it cost to build the planned volume of gas sources of heat plants or power plants? How much would the import volume of natural gas increase after these plans were implemented? Where are we going to import this gas from? From Russia or Norway? From where, then? And how would the Czech Republic's energy dependence increase after these plans were implemented? Is there a qualified study planned in this sense, or are we just gonna try it for the first good and see what happens? Those are my questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u189	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u190	Hello again. Thank you for the questions and I must say that in the field of energy, I very much appreciate your approach, I consider it rational, professional and always based on facts, so I think we agree on most things. Here are a number of relatively detailed questions that I would almost recommend that they could open up within the coal commission where we meet, because there are other colleagues. I'm not here right now because I didn't know exactly what you're going to be asking, full details, but as far as the gas is concerned, I'm afraid we can't avoid the gas in the years to come. Because - no, I'm afraid, I'm sure we can't avoid him. If we decarbonize - and we can now talk about how exactly that timetable will be set, which I think we have set fairly on the coal commission - so before we prepare new resources, and you know that Dukovan's support, or building Dukovan, will be sometime in 2036 and further, as far as renewables are concerned, we will do it somewhere at 22 percent overall by 2030. That means we're gonna have to help each other in some way. In the area of heating where we have, if I am not mistaken, 60 per cent of the coal resources, simply switch to biomass or waste is essentially unthinkable. That's where we're going to be, let's say, the transfer time of the gas. And now we can talk about whether it's going to be 15 years, 20 years, 25 years. What I am concerned about is the EU and the European Commission's approach, which clearly tells us with a raised finger: Down with coal. I'd understand if it had to be reasonable. At the same time, however, he crouchs his shoulders above the core, but I would say in principle that Europe's position towards the core is getting a little bit better. Not because she likes the core, but because a zero-emission Europe without a core is unrealistic. Now that time between the two will mean some kind of transfer period, and in my opinion, it will be tied to gas. We have a complete strategy - I would like to introduce it to you - the transformation of Czech heating, where the transition time is now on gas. To this end, it is necessary to approve what we are doing now in the House, which is a law on the promotion of renewable resources, where we also have outlined support, including Czech heating. It would be wrong for any other government to gnaw at what we are setting here, and that is maintaining a central heating system, because, in our view, absolute decentralisation would not be happy at the moment. We know central heating, other countries, such as Nordic countries, have it, we just have to switch to another source, and that coal will certainly be interesting for the necessary time. I also agree with the biomass and, at some point, undoubtedly, the waste. You asked how much it would cost us. At this point, we assume that the support for the following 10 years will be about 50 billion crowns in the heating sector, where I say again, will also be the gas. If we're going to take more from the sources of the east, or from the northern sources, or maybe we're just going to gradually use liquefied gas from the United States, because it's definitely going to be there for the infrastructure, now I can't describe it as a percentage. But in any case, it is always worth mentioning to all those who draw attention to the link to one country or another that, of course, Europe is dependent on gas, Russia today. It's just a fact, and it's hard to do anything about it right now, like it or not. You know that Nord Stream 2 is being built, de facto it strengthens dependence on Russian gas. At the moment it is important for us to monitor our capacities, which means that we are able to distribute the gas at all here within the infrastructure, which we should be able to manage, while preparing for the post-coal period, and I think we are doing this. And otherwise, we can talk about it on the coal commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u191	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u192	Just very briefly, Mr President. Thank you for your answer. I understand the questions are quite special. I'm going to try to think of a written interpelation on this subject, where there would be enough time to deal with it, and maybe then we could take a look at it together in the coal commission, if it works. The Prime Minister indicated in the afternoon that he was counting on its further use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u193	Thank you, too. Next in line is Mr. Marek Výborný, he's not here. So, Mr. Jiří Mihola, with the intervention of Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u194	Good evening, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Minister of Transport, although today's time focuses primarily on combating the coronavirus pandemic and eliminating the consequences of this pandemic, it is not possible to stop other areas and spheres of life, even in view of the need for further development of many technical disciplines in the future that we will still need, and in the meantime... This includes further development of road networks. I would like to ask you, then, how does the Ministry of Transport view the significant world transport incentive in our country, which is currently being prepared and discussed in professional circles by the World Road Congress in Prague in 2023. This is an extraordinary event that the World Road Association carries out regularly after four years in selected countries around the world. Is your ministry prepared to shield, support, and help finance such a thing? A successful presentation of this event, this Congress, which was recently presented to representatives of the Czech Road Society, leads me to the question, and I assume that this event could be of great benefit not only to the global road industry but also to our Republic, which is an integral part of it. Thank you for answering these questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u195	Yes, thank you. The actual preparation of the congress is ongoing. It is happening, as you have already mentioned, with the Czech Road Company. Among other things, it's a nice institution we work with. There is another company that has quite decent experience in organizing events. In principle, I would just confirm what you said because, in my opinion, this is not a conflicting issue at all. The only thing that is conflicting there is to organize it, because we are in a situation where we planned - I have here and in the background that in 2021 in April we wanted to invite the leadership of the World Road Association to Prague so that everyone could get acquainted with the venue. We wanted to meet them in April 2021. Unfortunately, we're going to have to rethink that, which means we're watching the organization of the so-called World Winter Road Congress today and the year 2022 in Canada, Calgary, where it was supposed to take place. So at this point, it's more about virtual conferences, but certainly, if colleagues come from the Czech Road Company - I'm not saying we pay everything, it's always a question of some sort of negotiation. We can also support an organizational form, we can agree with them on the use of some technique and so on. Usually the associations, if they come up with reasonable ideas, we always have something in their budget to do meaningful action, and this is definitely a meaningful action. I've been in touch with them. I met their chairman recently, so I'm sure they'll always be welcome here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u196	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u197	So now all I have to do is nod lightly, that they can count on support, funding, and using your ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u198	You, Mr. Mihola, are a good businessman. Now, of course, I can't tell how much they're gonna get. You have to come up with a budget. Usually in this case, it's always about some partnership, some co-financing, so let them come up with it, but I don't want to say right now that they get paid with everything they come in. But since I know them, and I know they're serious, we're definitely gonna sit on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u199	Thank you. Mr. Jurečka, he's not here. Mrs Hyťhová, she's not here. Mrs Kořanová, she's not here. Mr. Jiránek, he's not here. Mr. Profant, he's not here. Mrs Richterová, Kopřiva, Bartoň. Mr Bartoň is here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u200	Thank you. I didn't expect him to get to me that fast. My interpelation is for Minister Blatný and will be in the same wording as for the absent Minister Plaga, who says that actually for school restrictions, for what schools are in operation and so on, the Minister of Health decides. So, Minister, I'd like to ask you, what's the plan in three weeks? What happens to schools? Which of them will be open, which pupils will return to schools, which will not, and under what circumstances? Is it true that for three weeks we have now turned off schools to calm the situation, and then those pupils who went to school before will return at all times, or will we now wait three weeks, wait for what is going to happen, and only then will we decide and, from one day to the day, we will launch a group of pupils into schools and start dealing with them at the last minute, that we will test them, that their teachers will be vaccinated and so on? This means: When will pupils return to school, kindergarten, primary school first, second degree, special schools or other years? Under what circumstances? If the situation gets better when it gets worse, if it's the same or under any circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u201	Thank you and I'll ask Minister Blatný for an answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u202	Mr President, Member, ladies and gentlemen, in order to renew the attendance of pupils in schools, and it must be said, this will be done on the basis of the stabilisation of the epidemic situation. I can't tell you when it's going to be right now. Within the three weeks of the most stringent measures that are set up in this way, the prediction models are expected to turn the epidemiological curve and the situation, and then, if this trend continues, then I will just repeat that the return of students to schools - and here there is really a need for coordination with the Ministry of Education, because, as we have discussed so far, the priority is that the students of the senior years and students of the last years of primary schools for the admission exams, so the question is whether there will be any re-evaluation from the Ministry of Education during this time - but what is already being done for it is the vaccination of educators so that this area is resolved. A sufficient number of tests, which, even because they are compulsory in other business entities and from next week also in the public administration, will be enough for the so-called self-testing, and the decision in which the particular week it will be, I cannot tell you now, because it would be a promise of a term that may or may not be fulfilled. We are only a few days from the start of the most critical measures and only at the end of this week, at the beginning of next week it will be possible to evaluate how these work and consider further predictions. Several prediction scenarios will be prepared depending on how to proceed, but at least the 10 days we need to assess whether these measures work as we assume they should work, now we need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u203	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u204	Thank you for your answer. Thus, if there is no improvement in the situation, i.e. if the situation remains the same or worse, we cannot expect the pupils to return to the schools at least to the extent that they did before the lockdown. And I'd like to ask for an answer to the pupils' testing. In case things get better and we really get our students back to school, are we ready for testing? We have completed pilot projects to be able to test hundreds of thousands of pupils, and we have tests that are so reliable that they are reliable in this group of people, i.e. pupils, in children, at least more than 50 percent of what is now mentioned. What reliability do these LEPU tests have for this group that are purchased and which, in my opinion, are not applicable to pupils at all?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u205	Thank you. Minister, if he's interested, he's got less than a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u206	The tests are and will be enough, and these tests that are used, the antigen test strategy is based on their repeatability and repetition. At a time when they would only be used one time, then their specific sensitivity would not be sufficient, but this is not the way it is designed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-087-03-002-487.u207	Thank you. I'm saying that we've ended the oral questioning for today. I'm ending today's meeting and we'll continue tomorrow morning at 9:00. I wish you all a good evening and goodbye.
