ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u1	25. Members of Aleš Juchelka, Roman Onderka, Olga Richterová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Eva Matyášová, Roman Sklenák, Petr Gazdík, Barbora Kořanová and others on the issue of Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision, as amended, and some other laws /German press 944/ - third reading Once again, this is a proposal from a group of Members, I will ask Mr Aleš Juchelka to take up his seat at the rapporteur's table. I will ask the rapporteur of this press Hana Aulická Jírovcová. My colleague Juchelka is in his position, and I note that the motion for rejection and amendments is presented in the Houses of Press 944/4, which was delivered to you on 7 May this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as House press 944/5 and I ask the applicant, who is ready to give the introductory word at third reading. Counselor of the plaintiffs, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President, very much. To begin with, I would like to say that, after two years' work and hundreds of different ministerial meetings, we have reached the third reading of the law, which I believe is crucial, because it repeals the section on children's homes within three years and de facto replaces the so-called comprehensive care centres or establishing complex care centres, which should be the beginning of the transformation of so-called infant formulas, which at the moment can choose any service, including daily, weekly staffers, ZDVOPs, children's hospices and so on, and the aim is de facto to give carers support in their homes, in their natural environment. And it is important that the long-term stay of the child with serious health is simply and simply in his biological family and that the carers have some support in their own home environment. The starting point was simple, 98 percent of children with disabilities live in families thanks to high-level social services, if caregivers get to them, and thanks to health services that are really top-class, they remain in the care of their families and children with serious health disadvantages. Of course, care for these children is extremely demanding, and the family needs support. Yesterday we talked about this within the association of individualized care. Often one parent has to quit his job, take care of the child all day long. The family is then faced with, for example, financial problems; it has a reduced chance to provide some specific needs for the child. This next point, which is addressed in the amendment by Minister Adam Vojtěch, is the introduction of respectable care, which is very important for every carer, twice 14 times a year. The target group of these comprehensive care centres that we are introducing should be a child with a serious health condition between 0 and 18 years of age and his closest family. It is, of course, a device that somehow connects social health boundaries. I thank the House very much that we were able to go through the whole round with agreed opinions in committees for health care or in the Committee for Social Policy, as well as with the consent of the Ministry of Health, the MPSV or the Ministry of Justice. Thank you also from this place to all those who support these complex care centers here, such as the Czech Paediatric Society, early care and others. Thank you very much for your attention and I firmly believe that this law will pass here, I would just like to point out that Mrs Olga Richterová's colleague for the Pirates has amendments that passed about two months ago in the framework of the amendments to the legislation on social law protection, so I would like to ask if she would be kind enough and here, in order not to do so, to take these amendments back before the vote at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, Mr Aleš Juchelek. I am opening the debate, which has been entered by Olga Richterová, and then I am registering the rapporteur's application. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u4	Thank you. I am very glad that we follow the age limit that we have introduced with children's institutions up to three years of age by this amendment. I want to thank Mr. Juchelek for working on her, and I've joined her. At the same time, I am proposing to withdraw Amendment C1, because this would cause chaos. That's a proposal we've already voted on at the House meeting in July. So I'm making a proposal to withdraw C1, that's House document 8328, it's the age limit for infant formulas, the three years that have already been approved, it's already been passed by the Senate. And in addition to this withdrawal, which I think is a procedural proposal, I just want to emphasise, is attached to this proposal by such a more comprehensive amendment by Mr Adam Vojtěch, who we will support, it is letter B, and I will just point out - there is actually a definition of the centre of comprehensive childcare, where it is stressed that it is about promoting psychomotor and socio-emotional development of a minor patient and it is about preventing the emergence of psychic deprivation, just as it is about developing the communication capabilities of a minor patient, taking into account his age and development needs. Why did I quote this from paragraph 113? Because ensuring these things from our point of view requires sufficient staffing of comprehensive care centres, and therefore we propose Amendment C2, which is very simple. It basically contains one sentence, which reads as follows: "One worker in social services can provide direct care for up to three children under the age of 18 during the day and six children under the age of 18 at night, while at the same time not providing direct care for adult users. [[11.50 hours]] This is an amendment aimed at ensuring the quality of care, at personnel standards, and we leave this - letter C2 - behind. Once again, I am pleased that it is coming after the introduction of the age limit for children under the age of three years, and on this proposal, we support it and we would like to anchor our personnel standards as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u5	Thank you, Mrs Olza Richterová. Now, the rapporteur in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I've been thinking a lot about what I would say to you today about this bill. But the first thing I won't forgive myself is that I am mostly very sad about you, because what was adopted two months ago, which was mentioned by Juchelka, so I call it an atrocity on children. I understand that you need not all understand this and that you also do not understand that 90 per cent of the Members who have raised their hand do not even know what they have voted on. But voting for populist slogans that take away children, that's disgusting. And I'm really sick of you. Should you all first reach into your conscience and say whether you can imagine and answer all the arguments from practice, what will happen to these children and where will we place them? I asked you today how many foster parents we have available. We have three in the Czech Republic! We have fifty children in the Ústí Region, and not all of them are by far located with a so-called medical diagnosis. Where do we put the kids? Ladies and gentlemen, are you going to take them home? You're gonna take care of them professionally? [[He speaks loudly, strongly.]] This is what you have accomplished, this atrocities! I've been going to a couple of nursing homes on my vacation. I was in Kyjov, of course I worked with us in Ústí Region, Most, but I was in the children's centre in Kladno, I also visited the children's centre in Svitách. Do you have any idea what kind of kids they take care of out there? That they're very serious medical conditions? That there are older children, too, because they provide the kind of care they can't provide in those families or in the health services? And do you know what kind of children we have in the Ústí Region? That they're being abused, that they're being abused? And we don't talk about majority companies very often, as foster parents want: beautiful white girl, curly, best healthy. And that, to a large extent, they carry stigma from their parents? This is what you've done, and we're saying here that we don't know how we're gonna take care of these kids. Mrs Richterová says: we have three and a half years to do this, we just have to do it somehow. Do you understand that? You spilled a baby with a bathtub, and it's only now that we're going to find a legislative solution to what we're going to do with these kids! You absolutely do not respond to the quality of temporary foster education that it is necessary to find such high-quality foster parents as to be able to take care of children with this handicap, any, and to respond to the situation from which they leave the environment. You have completely forgotten that it is 76 hours that they have in their education, and that even long-term foster parents are talking about a tragic situation in the field and that it really needs to be dealt with in the long term and in the system. Money isn't everything! And if you think that for the 30,000 that these foster parents are gonna have now, with no money when they have a kid, they're gonna stay in your system for the long term just because they're gonna do it for the money, then I'm telling you that after the first time, after the second baby, they're gonna leave. That means we're gonna get into a really harder situation than we are right now. Today we will support this bill. I'm saying this hard, but that's all we have left, because what you approved two months ago is a liquidation situation for those kids! Actually, this proposal here is saying that we could have a little bit of room for maneuver, it's really a little bit bigger. And I would like to call on the Minister of Health to acknowledge that the Ministry of Health itself is unhappy with what has been adopted and that they are preparing a novel for the Ministry of Health to deal with this. I'm just very sorry that it's just not saying it out loud. And unfortunately, the YES movement voted in favour of PR specialists! With great sadness in my heart, I say that today we will vote in favour of a proposal that we have rejected and which, we have said, is not fully drawn up as it should be, and that even what promised the Ministry of Health that it would continue to cooperate, it is simply not. It is late and we are only dealing with the consequences that have been made senselessly in the Chamber of Deputies. Now, I'm gonna wait for my colleague, Mrs Válková, who I provoked to argue, and I think we're gonna keep going, because I'm just not gonna forgive you for this. And I believe the people in practice don't either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u7	I thank Mrs Aulická Jírovcová and it is true that my colleague Helena Válková is enrolled in the debate, but there are three factual points before her. Helena Langšádlová, Lubomír Volný, Olga Richterová, in that order. Now, then, Helena Langšádlová. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u8	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say at this point that I know well what I voted for, that I have been engaged in the social-law protection of children for a long time, that I also led the family committee a long time ago, that at that time I supported foster care and that the maximum number of children grew up in a family environment, and that I visited dozens, dozens of facilities that care for children. And I believe that children, especially the smallest children, really belong to the family. And I also believe that when other states have done it and there is no state in Europe where children are raised in constitutional education within three years, I firmly believe that we can do it. And when my colleague here spoke of children with disabilities, children being abused, abused, these are the very children who should be given the opportunity to live in a family environment, of course with professional support, so that they have all the care, but the arms of loving persons can never be replaced by any professional care. So I would like to say that I was well aware of what I voted for, and I continue to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u9	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, now the factual comment of Lubomír Volný. Olga Richterová will be prepared, also for a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I will answer you very simply through Mr President, Mrs Aulická. What is happening here in the House, along with the last novel, and with this, is merely preparing for business with children in the style of Norwegian Barnevernet. This isn't about the kids who are being defended so heartily. Please, if they could have a chance to hug a loving parent, those parents would be taking them out of those devices without money now. You guys are gonna create an artificial child business here, where in the finals, these sick and unhappy kids are gonna suffer more than in those institutions, because only the peepers are gonna take them for money, because if those people had a relationship with these disabled kids, they'd have sacrificed themselves a long time ago. You put money in it, you make it the same business as Norway and within a year, and there's gonna be kids missing by day. There's gonna be kids missing in this business, and they're gonna steal from their parents just like they did in Norway. That is why we, Members of the Free Block, did not support the last amendment, and we will not support this one either. [[12.00 hours]] And we strongly warn every citizen of the Czech Republic about being emotionally blackmailed by artificial weeping about how suddenly everyone here wants children not to suffer in institutions. The children in the institutions suffer because they have a difficult life destiny, and they need to be helped. But not here to create some kind of system into which billions of crowns will be poured. And we all know how every system in which billions of crowns are being poured into ends in the Czech Republic ends up with a disgusting business. In the finals, it will probably also end with the creation of the Agrofert wing, which is now not only earning on tests, earning on vaccinations, but is about to earn on poisoned victims, too, by investing in cancer treatment. So I wouldn't be surprised if there was a grand industrial way of stealing children from parents like in Norway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u11	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact is over. Thank you. Another factual point is that of Mrs Olga Richterová. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u12	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to prolong this because I want us to vote. Let me just sum up the facts for you. The novel gives enough time that we approved this summer. The amendment gives time to 1 January 2025 while at the same time anchoring a significant increase in the remuneration of the foster parents, tied to a minimum wage so as to valorize them to raise them, so they will have long-term security. The amendment contains an exception for children with severe disabilities who are in a number of those facilities. Of course, we have nothing against it, and we know that it would not be realistic to change it quickly. So once again - time to 2025, exception for children with severe disabilities. Unfortunately, there's no other way we can solve this for them. For example, I wish to develop therapeutic foster parents. But in any case, the amendment will ensure the development of smaller community services. And an exception for groups of siblings so that we don't tear children younger - older from each other. Once they have ties, there's an exception for groups of siblings. This goes without saying. And one last thing about money. The cost of a single bed in a nursing home was calculated by the Ministry a few years ago at around 70,000 a month. 70,000 a month - that is more than double what it costs to provide quality foster care in families. Please note that for the money, for the state money that goes into that one bed, children can have the support of families that, as far as I know, we all want. And the last of that nonsense that just came out here. The children are placed in court. It's a court decision, it's verifiable. And that doesn't make any changes at all. All that matters is that the tens of thousands of a month be used effectively and for the benefit of the smallest children. That's all. That's why I'm glad it went through, and I think it's a big system change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u13	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Richterová, through Mr President, you have just made exactly your argument and what we are saying. It's just a flow of money from the state sphere to a nonprofit. [[The speaker begins to raise her voice:]] Nothing else. And it's just business with kids, that's just true. My colleague Volný was right. And the fact that it's actually allowed in part that the court is behind it, that it's more or less left here to decide to remove the children of the OSPODs, that's true. We have discussed this with the OSPOD staff and the courts, and I am very sorry, we have a minister here representing this area, that she is simply not talking to the experts, the judges are not talking to them, that this has all been covered, and this is only being dealt with through the lobbying of nonprofit organizations. Nothing else. It's just about the money. And the numbers you're putting here, 70,000, that would have gold pushups, as the principal at the Children's Center in Kladno said. It's just false facts, and all you're saying is that this baby needs that love. Yes, she does, but she needs, above all, the help that, unfortunately, foster parents, not that there's a shortage, but that they just can't do it. So what we're going to do here is we're going to have kids who, like in Western countries, are going to go through, like, three or four foster families. What are we gonna make of these kids?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u15	Mr Aleš Juchelka - factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u16	Thank you very much. I have to respond to my previous speakers and calm the debate a little bit, because the law is not about doing business with children and Barnevernet. I'm looking at it like crazy. The law is only about us introducing complex care centers that have clear rules. Those rules will be laid down by law. Care provided in complex care centres should be twofold. There should be a health and social factor, which means we're really dealing with social health boundaries. This health border should support the so-called home care, which means caring, those who have such a child at home, that is, in the patient's own social environment. That's what we're dealing with in the law. We deal with children's health care there, which means twice for 14 days paid rest by a payment decree, insurance companies. We are discussing this there so that those caring once and for all can relax for 14 days, for example, to engage in healthy siblings, to engage in themselves and in some way again within 14 days in recovery to start another care, which is very, very complicated not only in 1s and 2s, but mainly in the third and fourth degree of disability, and not only physically but mainly emotionally. It solves outpatient care directly in those centres of comprehensive care and, of course, standard long-term and follow-up bed care, that means that no child who is handicapped enough to be able to take care of him or a biological or even a foster family will be able to take care of him or her, but neither will acute beds, for example, be taken care of in hospitals and can be taken care of in the centres of comprehensive care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u17	Time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry, your time is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u18	I'll sign up again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u19	Yes. Thank you. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u20	Thanks for the word. I'd like to respond to the previous speakers, too. Unfortunately, some feel that the more they shout, the more they are right. But what was going on here was that years didn't go up for foster benefits. That means those foster parents were sponsoring their children more and more, until it was completely unsustainable. Now it's getting back into a bearable situation, so please don't let anyone say anything nonsense about dealing with children. What I regret is that we didn't approve the six-year limit two months ago so those kids wouldn't be harmed from three to six years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u21	Thank you. Just so that we know what the order is, now with Mr Lubomír Volný in fact, then Mr Foldyna, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mr Juchelka, with priority rights, Minister Vojtěch and President Michálek are signed up. Mr Volný shall have the floor on a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u22	Thank you. First, I'm gonna cut a few seconds and say I'm happy that he's not gonna sanitize here anymore, because the virus is probably different than it was a month ago. [[A cleaning lady with disinfectant is ready at the door, but she may enter the hall only at the request of the President.]] So, Mrs Richterová, who has so cowardly packed up and left during this discussion, has revealed to us the exact truth she is saying here, through the President, Mrs Aulická. By 2025, the mob will want to take away children from normal honest parents and make huge money on them, raise money for it, billions, tens of billions to get this business going just as successfully as in Norway and Western countries. Yes, there will be exceptions, so those children you claim to need the greatest love will stay in those institutions again. 70,000 a month against that money for the private sector - that's exactly proof that it's business for nonprofits and for people who just aren't able to get normal jobs as pirát, so they're gonna be so-called professional foster parents who are just gonna do it for money without any relation to those kids. Where are you gonna get that quality care? It said here how many hours of training it is. It's just ridiculous. It's not gonna be any quality care. You're going to artificially employ minority people, any minority you make up, because if that minority isn't able to take care of itself and get a normal job, you're going to make it professional guardians. And that the courts will decide, that's fine. In Norway, the courts also decide. And how do the courts in Norway decide? Well, very simple. If you call and mediate your case, you'll never see your child again in your life, as Mrs. Michálková. [[correct: Michaláková]] So the fact that you don't know how brutally they deal with children in Norway, what's going on there, how it came to be, is because mobsters like you in Norway have pushed through the salami method like ours, and no one is allowed to talk about it publicly. Because anyone who talks loses their own child for life. Whoever supports this is a criminal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u23	Time! Thank you. Mr Foldyna, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u24	Thank you for the floor. I think we should stop making politics out of a serious issue that concerns children and our society. That never works out for us. I am convinced that my colleague Jírovcová speaks from practice. He's talking about a thing he understands, which he's been through, and he's suggesting a solution. I'm convinced the pirát are theoretically speaking to number one, but you have a five in practice. You don't even... You're completely out of reality! Reality is what Jírovcová says. And the fact that we will not support the law and do everything we can to change it in the next Parliament. We're gonna do everything we can to straighten this out and save those kids, because somebody really has to take care of them, and it can't be a business, business, and money, just money, and just business. There must also be a goal of raising people in society who will do something for the company. And please, this place is going completely out of control, and it's going to be too much of a pity. We should think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u25	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u26	Thank you, Mr President. A colleague of Čižinský. We are really glad that we have not been able to accept this amendment so that children under the age of six can be banned, because it is already bordering on really, I don't know how to put it politely, but don't be angry with me, it can only be proposed by a person or people who really don't know anything about it and who want to do the devastation of the whole system, and now I'm talking about the school. And perhaps I would just like to say that it is Mrs Vildová, who is a long-standing expert and social worker at OSPOD, that is your member. And your KDU member who wrote that letter to the Senate so that what was taken under Mrs Richterová's pen didn't vote to reverse it, to come back here to adjust it, and that your KDU members didn't really agree with it. But unfortunately, populism at KDU wins!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u27	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka and then Mrs Válková, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u28	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. Maybe I'll finish and try again to calm down this debate, which is really beyond what we're going to be dealing with here today. We're not really dealing with child welfare, foster care, we're not dealing with what we were dealing with two months ago, and this debate is simply delayed for those two months. We're dealing with the transformation of children's homes into a facility in three years, a complex care center. I've introduced the health file here, the social one, except, of course, the lightening one, should include social counseling and other things so that we can connect the social-health boundaries that are very important. I want to be here in general because I appreciate all those who take care of disabled children at home, disabled relatives. I want to support all those carers who may not be the biological parents of these children and who are really temporary or long-term foster parents, who have such hard cases at home and I know them, who also have fourth degree disability, that they simply care about them. And I want to stand up for them because they don't do it for the money, as they say. It's a huge lie. Foster care has been going on for a long time so we can have the experience that it's not happening for money. I mean, we haven't raised their foster parents for eight years, and yet there are foster parents who are marrying these kids. Let's not do this by embedding institutional and foster care. No way. This bill is here to introduce comprehensive care centres and allow the legislative breathing of what some children's homes already do within three years. That means -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u29	Time's up, Mr. Ambassador. [[Messenger. Thank you.]] Mrs Helena Válková, Mr Čižinský will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Probably just, like, two minutes on that de facto note right now, right? [[Yes.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u31	You're signed up for the debate later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u32	Yes, thank you. So very quickly and briefly. I get it and I see it, we've heard it here in relation to the Czech Post, now we hear it in relation to children. It is a pure political campaign, in my opinion, because we have legally concluded this chapter and the Senate has approved it, and now the proposal lies, as far as I know, with the President to sign, it was an amendment to the Act on Social Protection, and I do not understand why we are discussing here in addition with an increased voice and shout, which I think is not a dignified Member and Members in our Chamber of Deputies, something that happened here two months ago. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, through you, Mr Vice-President, you should have screamed like that and argued factually two months ago. You did, and apparently the result didn't show up. Moreover, I am surprised that the KSČM connects with the Free Block, at least thematically, because I did not expect there to be a discussion at this level, which Mr Free has been showing here for a long time, by your means, Mr Vice-President, and certainly such terms as pee-peeers insult all foster parents in the Czech Republic just for money. I assume you don't agree, Mrs. Aulická Jírovcová. If so, I am very sorry, through you, Mr Vice-President. I also don't like the fact that someone here is questioning such - essentially indirectly, I hope it's just ignorance - the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We were at the periodic review after 10 years. They greatly appreciated the adoption of this amendment. It is a committee on the protection of the right of a child at UN level. Is that also wrong, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, through you, Mr Vice-President? And then the exception that is--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u33	Madam, I'm sorry, two minutes are up. Thank you. [[Member of the War: Okay, thank you.]] Mr Jan Čižinský, then Mr Lubomír Volný, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. We continue with factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u34	Thanks for the word. I would like to respond by your means to Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Madam, even if you scream even more, you will not be right. It is a fact that even in KDU-ČSL there is plurality of opinions. Mrs Vildová has a different opinion, but I am very pleased that the KDU-ČSL club as a whole voted in favour of children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u35	Thank you. Member Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u36	Thank you, Mr President. I'm here, through you, to my colleague. Who do you really think you are to whack your colleagues on whose side they're joining or not? Who do you really think you are? This is unbelievable! So calming this debate is against the interests of the children, and you are not acting here in the interests of the children. You are acting here for the sake of money, and you are acting here for the sake of people who will make billions on these children in the future, just as they earn them in Norway. Kids and decent foster parents, those who are already doing it today in a financially disadvantageous situation, deserve the best support, but we in the Free Block are talking about a child business that has been being prepared here since 2025 as it is in Norway. The future shareholders of this market, who are now building their own business for the future in which they will invest, use fake children and foster parents as hostages. But that's the classic false argument of future shareholders in this business. And yes, I can see that there are people among you who are already preparing for this big business, as they run in Norway and there are billions and billions of crowns in it, investing and investing and profiting from it. And the UN? My colleague, through Mr President, everything is wrong in the United Nations today. Human rights are guarded by people from Saudi Arabia, where you would have to be in a mask and sit at home because no one would let you into Parliament. They're guarding our human rights there. Children's rights are decided by people who are now financially connected to organizations such as Barnevernet and so on. We know it, everybody knows it. Global organizations lead the world in one direction, in one direction only: the destruction of basic traditional family values, the breakdown of family, the trafficking of children, people pissing each other off. And the situation in Norway, as I say, is so grim that if you complain about people like you, judges, violating their rights, that judge will punish you by not seeing your child for the rest of your life! [[President: Mr. Ambassador, time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u37	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u38	Thank you, Mr President. To Mr Čižinský, by your means, Mr President: who knows me, he knows that I speak out loud when I am really emotionally ill-tuned or if I want to stress it. And in this area, you must all recognise that it is about emotions and it is about the reasons and not understanding why you actually voted in favour of the amendment proposed by Mrs Richterová. So that's why. And maybe it's not political, I just always say what I think and how I feel. And then to Mrs Válková, again through Mr President. I think that your pretty capable turnovers, like that we're connected or connected to a fellow Freeman and his block, I don't think anyone can trust you to do that. KSČM has always performed on its own, because it has its arguments, it has its reasons. And the fact that I sometimes say this here - and it's across the political spectrum that I agree simply with the opinion or part of the opinion of individual colleagues, and I've often stressed it even in your YES, so it doesn't mean that we're connected to them. There are experts from another party for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u39	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka, with a factual remark, then Mr Luzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u40	Just one last remark that once again, the actual one, is not in the draft of this health service law here, and what happened two months ago. And I also want to say that I distance myself from insulting semi-racist statements, through your Volný Member towards foster homes, and to what is simply not the content of this law at all. Let's save our emotional outbursts for another time. We're dealing with a very simple and practical thing here. Children for social reasons should not remain in institutional care and we should help and strain all the forces to ensure that carers are best managed at home by all the experts, and if this is really very necessary, for example in the third, fourth degree of disability, let us give them professional health care. That's what this law is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u41	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar, then Mr Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to return this discussion to the material level. We've already had this discussion once, remember, we were in room 205. And we, as KSČM, have tried to present you with facts, factual information from practice. We didn't play politics - here I'm heading to the colleagues who suspect us. It was a long way from the election. But we've been trying to prove the system's current functionality and the risk that brings the new system you want to introduce here. We keep pointing this out, because over the 32 years, we've been taught that if it's forgotten at the beginning, when these things develop, then it's very hard to hold back. And then all those who will walk and say, well, you were actually right at first, and we didn't think about it, and it somehow went wrong, and somehow it ended badly - they'll be looking for an alibi. That's why we're getting off on this mic. My colleague Aulická against the disturbance of these institutions here, I to the post office when I'm afraid of being privatized. We're all supposed to be doing OKD at first. How many colleagues performed here because of solar barons and other things. These are all the historical milestones of this Parliament, where experts' opinions have been forgotten and we have protected ourselves with the unity of clubs and similar matters. This is also a response to a colleague of Čižinský, through you. Of course, it's nice that the club is united, but when it's up against experts, it's a problem. Therefore, perhaps we should listen a little more to the politicians at some point than to the experts. Hanka Aulická here is trying to explain to you that the opinion of these institutions is that way, and even without distinction, the political shirt stands up for maintaining the current state, maybe editing it parametrically, but keeping it, because that's how we're gonna pour out the bathtub and the baby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u43	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u44	Thank you. I'm already here. He told the House several times that there are topics that everyone is afraid to face and afraid to talk about. I was accused here by a colleague that my speech, through Mr President, was semi-racist. So this is what I reserve myself for, because here's a community that's already trained by various nonprofits, i.e. people who aren't able to get a normal job. This community, thanks to nonprofits, has a dramatic increase in family foster care or child adoption, because those non-profitmakers explained to them, this community, for the money of Czech taxpayers or taxpayers in the Czech Republic, that it is better for them when they simply adopt their grandparents and parents among themselves, and they get more money for it. If you like it or not, just one community here has the problem with this - and I'm saying it has it, you're saying it doesn't, so do the statistics, if there's a community that has a dramatic increase in this family care for exactly self-interest reasons, because they're going to adopt or adopt each other's children. That's just the way it is. And, yes, I point out that what you're doing here now is a salami method. I've got a Barnevernet. barnevernet was created by the abuse of the death of a boy who was tortured by his sadistic father. Because of one sadistic father and one tragedy, there was a system that tragically affected the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. He divided families and even splits them in such a way that today it's enough for that Norwegian kid to complain in kindergarten that his parents didn't buy him something, and the teacher who's trained by the same nonprofits just won't give it up anymore, gives it to Barnevernet. They give it to some foster kid, the kid doesn't like it, because the foster parents may be beating him up and not feeding him, he wants to go home, and the judges won't let him. And they leave him in the family where he's being abused. And ours, by the way. [[The time has passed, Mr. Ambassador.]] Fifty percent of foster children are unhappy and unhappy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u45	Mr. Jan Čižinský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u46	I would just like to respond to Mr Luzar, through you. It's not like there's a majority of volunteers that tell us you're making a mistake. It's exactly the opposite. Most experts, most experts say: You are backwards, look beyond the borders at other European states. And the experts say the border is at least six years old. And many states have a higher limit in our neighborhood, in Europe. So please don't say that someone here votes against the experts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u47	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u48	Thank you, Mr President. And I must respond once again to my colleague Čižinský, by your means, Mr President. I'll bring you here, I think a few dozen experts, out of all the affected areas, who will look at you and say, "You can't be serious. You guys are just building this whole system and the kids, above all, into the fact that their situation is really going to get worse and that we're actually going to be... Or that we'll have nowhere to put these kids, they won't be able to go into quality care, and we'll deal with it in an alternative way. We know that already on the verge, because it has been approved in the Senate, some matters are being prepared, they approach it responsibly and, of course, things are already being prepared about what it will actually mean within individual regions of child care. And I have to tell you that this is always happening - and especially in the Ústí Region - how are we going to do it, because although the MPSV tells us that it has 135 foster parents prepared or that it will certainly be sufficient, but do we not lose our foster parents at the same time? He's not leaving the system? He's leaving. We need to support the long-term care here, those long-term foster parents. We need to support an outpatient care network for families. [[12.30 hours]] But when you have children who are abused, abused at home - they're not just healthy children, that mommy decides in the hospital that she doesn't want them. These are not just children you can immediately place in long-term care. This is work with the families and very often, unfortunately, it happens in our region that they don't return to the original family as they do elsewhere. Babies' constitutions today provide the kind of care you don't seem to care about, but that's the problem of not even going there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u49	Thank you. Apologies: Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes until the end of the day from 12.30 for working reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík for work reasons today from 12.15 to 13.00. The point is in fact, Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u50	Thank you. Because here, from among the future shareholders of the children's market, there are false insults and remarks about me personally and the Free Block, so I'm going to repeat that. Each single child and every honest foster parent deserves the maximum possible support of the state, which, fortunately, or unfortunately, means that we will not interfere with it. This is especially true in full families, because the more we interfere with them, the worse it gets in those families, and so do these children. I mean, the story of when ANO wanted to sell to an Azerbaijani businessman in the Moravian-Silesian region one of the children's homes. That's why the audit was done, and it was found that the children's home couldn't be sold, because we basically have few places. Well, the result of the audit was to find out exactly what my colleague Aulická here is saying. Those kids in those children's homes live in a luxury that almost no foster parents can reach today, because the money was invested there honestly, the money is there. They live in beautiful renovated locks that ANO here wanted to sell. They've got big groups there, which means if there's eight, nine, they're together. They practically live in apartments. The oldest siblings learn to take care of the youngest. They're far, far better off than in some foster family who would only take this group of kids for money because they could adopt them and work with them today, but nobody wants those kids without money. So it's a really complicated profession, it's a tough profession. I am currently taking care of my real estate by a deeply religious person who raised five of his children and five Romani children. I got it firsthand, the information. It's hard, hard, hard work. And you want to make it a business with the kids. Let's not do this. Let's help the kids, help the foster parents, don't make it Barnevernet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u51	Thank you. It is now time for the general debate with priority rights, Minister Adam Vojtěch, for President Jakub Michálek to prepare himself with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I have listened to the debate, but I have to agree with what some colleagues have been told here. This is a little bit of crying over spilled milk, or we're talking about a completely different law than the law on social-law protection for children, whose amendment has already been adopted by the Senate, and we take that as a fact. On the contrary, I think it is all the more necessary to adopt this legislation as amended by my amendment, because this legislation ensures that children who actually have a health indication have a serious chronic illness or suffer from other disabilities will have a place where they will be taken care of by complex centres. This will, of course, also allow the child to remain in the home environment as much as possible. This spectrum of services is in the provision of outpatient home care and also the health relief care, the respectable one, which will be newly covered by public health insurance. So if we don't adopt this legislation, then only by abolishing infant formulas will there be no follow-up care. That is why I say it is necessary to adopt this legislation in order to ensure that there is follow-up care for children with disabilities, because the legislation on the social protection of children has already been adopted. There's nothing we can do about it. It's done. And if we don't accept this law, there won't be follow-up care for children with health indications, and I think that's wrong. So I'm asking for his support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u53	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, will first respond to a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u54	Thank you. What has just been said here from the Minister's mouth is further evidence of how the salami method is progressing. I don't suspect the Minister of Health is stupid, or even dull, or perhaps an idiot. He must have known what was going to happen in the last meeting. And if you accept a law, then you have to get some resources to it, and he didn't. He didn't know, was he stupid? No. The Minister of Health is a typical trainee of the Aspen Institute, only he knows how to use the salami method so that the public can swallow as much as possible a piece of the bait and the winch and let it go where he needs to go. Something just came through, we were stupid, we didn't know there was any other way, which is why we didn't say it then, and we're just saying it now. Nobody believes that at all. You just want business with healthy kids because of the exceptions. That's it. In fact, nothing changes in their lives for sick children. You're opening the door to a healthy baby store with this. You opened it last time, you got half a finger in there, and now you want to stick one more finger in there. And if the public doesn't know, then unfortunately the public will vote to people who will steal their children in the future, that is, as they are stealing not only in Norway today, they are stealing in Sweden, Finland, Germany, England, France, all over the so-called Western Europe. The only reason you don't know is because there's one basic rule in all those states. The moment you complain about judges and judges like Urválek, in which case the Urválek will give you a life-long restraining order against your own child. You'll never see that child again. If your child is a child, he'll never know who his real parent is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u55	Thank you. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual comment. Then, Mr David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to perform anymore, but I'm afraid the minister just ran. I would just say that I do not understand at all his courage here to say that if this law is not passed, it is not the follow-up service. Shame on you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u57	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, then Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u58	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the minister, possibly the translator, when I'm hearing the complex care centers here repeatedly, what I'm supposed to imagine under it. Is it that the devices that exist now are going to change their names? Or will there be a whole new complex team of experts? I just want to say that treating any children at the moment when you - as I've heard - should have psychologists there, there should be psychiatrists there, there should be baby neurologists there. Those experts aren't. How do you get them in four years? If I take it I needed an emergency treatment last week for a girl who had psychiatric problems, I got a term of 22. 10. So I'm wondering how these centers are gonna be secured by experts, who's gonna do it, because the current ones have their patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u59	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u60	Thank you. Now maybe I can afford something that the addressee won't like my notes. However, through Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Kasal for the perfect question. I'm sorry, you're going to be associated with the Free Block now. What can be done, because I have an opinion with you. And that's the way it is. [[12.40 hours]] Those places where the children are today will only be renamed, perhaps somebody else moved somewhere within some successful privatization, such as the privatization that Mr. Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region wanted to commit, when after he destroyed the most successful operations teams in Orlov hospital, he also wanted to eliminate the children's home that he wanted to sell to a friendly businessman. That's just the way it is, there's gonna be a change at the most. Just like you said, these people aren't there, so the care will be provided by exactly the same people and 99 percent even in the same spaces where the name will be rewritten. Therefore, I repeat, today, during this debate, several essential information has come to light. Either this wasn't well prepared, because we haven't talked about it here in a long time, and it would have been approved in the last draft, or, on the contrary, it's perfectly prepared as a salami method, as I say, which is gradually being prepared for the business with the children. Unfortunately, I have to warn my colleagues at the SPD that Jarda's performance was a little funny, but hypocritical, because you all voted in favour of the last amendment, except for the excused ones. The entire SPD voted for the barnevernetization of the Czech Republic, and the entire SPD voted for the children's trade, because the communists were at that time those who wanted to be communists at least at the right time, and this megabyznys with children wanted to shut down, but you espedicians, and don't turn your head on me, you all voted in favour. So, Jarda, please don't be a hypocrite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u61	Thank you. Member Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would still like to ask the Minister, by your means, to answer the question that I said before, whether legislation is really being prepared for the Ministry of Health to address the consequences of the adopted amendment. We would really like to know, because the latest information from your ministry is that you are preparing this legislation, but unfortunately, this amendment, which we are going to vote on today, is not the one that should be dealt with. So that's why I'm gonna ask, and I want an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u63	Thank you. Mr Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for health reasons, Mr Martin Kupka from 11.45 pm to the end of the day. He apologizes for work reasons. A real comment from Minister Adam Vojtěch. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u64	I will just repeat that the amendment was prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Justice. Everyone agreed on it, so there's a basal consensus on all the departments involved. That's just the fact that this proposal was put forward this way and it was drafted by those teams, by legislation, so it's not some proposal I made, it's a proposal on which all the departments agreed. And the fact that I disagreed with the original proposal for social-law protection of children, I think you know very well and it's from the tapestry. But I agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u65	Thank you. Member Lubomír Volný with a factual remark, then Member Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u66	I have to say, I'm really tired of someone walking around using someone else's proxy arguments. Well, of course you agreed on it across the board when you're all gonna invest in it the same way you invested in the covideo mafia. Now, in Reflex, I beg you, there is an article about how you and your colleagues, Minister, were ordering officials to write and justify the illegal... that they knew about. Your officials have informed you of this, and it will write Reflex, it will not say Lubomír Volný. You just forced them to write illegal measures, and then you stand up and say, "It went through the entire government across the resorts, we all agreed on it, only 38 times the court beat your head off. Don't use those arguments, it's a fake game. Either stand up for it as a man, that it's your amendment, or say you're just signed there like... like some kind of ficus that has to cover up the covid mafia's business here. Doesn't Aspen teach you anything better? Doesn't it teach you anything better that once you run into someone who's just a little bit critical, they're gonna check out what you're saying? By the way, you're a regular liar. You've been convicted of a lie at least twice. You lied about Professor Peková, you had to apologize. Then you talked to some other lady right away. It's your responsibility to know that it's not true before you release it into public space. And then you lied about our Olympian being on oxygen. You are an absolutely untrustworthy person. Here when our Minister of Health comes in and says that something was accepted in agreement between all the departments, how should I even know? How do I know you didn't push them, you didn't blackmail them? This is also a method learned in Aspen. Here's a liar from the pirát, lying that he was voting. Another KDU-ČSL liar lies about how he voted. And here the Minister of Health is lying about who's been infected with what and who's on what breathing devices. And here you come, and as the standard of truthfulness, you want to convince me that I'm lying to you. [[Your time, Congressman, is up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-007-025.u67	At this point, I have to stop discussing this point because it's 12 o'clock 45 minutes. I note that, with a factual remark, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová is still registered and President Jakub Michálek is with priority to the debate. However, according to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am interrupting this item and we will address the item number
