ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and on the amendment of certain other laws /house print 503/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, his resolution was delivered as House press 503/6, information on the amendments was distributed to us in our mail. [[Noise in the hall.]] I welcome Senator Jiří Drahoš among us, and I ask that the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga speak for the plaintiff for the Senate resolution on the amendments tabled. Minister, I'm just going to ask you for a moment of patience, because the noise in the room doesn't allow you to get out. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with the next item, please, with peace, so that we can attend to it. [[The president is ringing the bell to calm the room.]] Thank you. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the amendment to the law on teaching workers, which is again being returned from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic today. First of all, I would like to express the hope that the proposal will be approved, and I would like it to be approved in the Senate version. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports considers it very important, especially in the perspective of addressing the problem of teacher shortages in regional education, but also in order to reduce the administrative burden on school directors, and we also consider it essential to anchor the adaptation period of early teachers. As you know, the Ministry of Education has also identified some of the amendments adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. It was, for example, an addition of school speech among pedagogical staff, leaving teaching as one of the common ways of obtaining a teacher's professional qualification or an amendment allowing the school director to recognise the qualifications of a pedagogical worker who received a higher education in the field of pedagogical sciences and at the same time a student of an accredited Master's degree programme. The Ministry of Education also agrees with the legislation on the salaries of teaching staff newly tied to the average wage in the national economy, although I expressed formal opposition to this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. The reason for this was - and it is evident - that the proposal, in the view of the Ministry of Education, contained some major shortcomings, but this proposal - and for it I thank those who supported it - builds on the four-year effort of the Ministry of Education and Government to increase the resources for pedagogical and non-educational workers. This means that it is a logical outcome, and after the Senate has modified the technical deficiencies with its amendment, the Senate version is the correct version worth supporting. At today's meeting, I would therefore like to support the Senate version of the bill presented, especially for the reason that I mentioned earlier, that the amendments adopted by the Guaranteed Senate Committee on Education and by Senator Drahoš correct some of the shortcomings of the version forwarded from the Chamber of Deputies. This is, above all, a parliamentary amendment on salaries, which is being reformed in the Senate version of the provisions on state budget financing. It is absolutely essential because it allows the financing of teaching work in basic arts schools or higher schools, elementary schools, graduate schools, provision of grant financial requirements for schools. This means that both the VOŠ and the University were overlooked in the original proposal, and I think that the Senate version corrects the matter sufficiently. Let me also note that this amendment has been formulated in cooperation with the Education Committee, the Ministry of Education and the petitioner of the original House amendment, and I would like to point out that everyone involved agrees with that version. I also think that this is not quite the rule, and that is why I would like to see this harmony today - or if we fail today, then next week - end up supporting the Senate version cross-cuttingly by all the clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again I ask for the support of the Senate proposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please let Senator Jiří Drahoš take the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister briefly summed up the succus of the Senate proposal. In my view, the amendment to the Education Worker Act is one of the most important legislative steps in education during this parliamentary term. It has already been stated here that one of the objectives of the amendment is to open the profession to professionals without pedagogical education, that is § 9a. In principle, a university-educated expert may be appointed by the Director for a period of three years, during which he has the opportunity to supplement the so-called pedagogical minimum. I firmly believe that this step will help attract high-quality people to education who wouldn't be able to teach otherwise. I know that this paragraph has raised big debates, and I myself have attended a number of meetings with both supporters and opponents of this change before discussing this amendment in our Senate, but my firm belief that we will in no way destroy Czech education by letting educated practitioners into it has changed nothing. I would agree with the criticisms of the novel in one way or another. Ideally, we would have a situation like in Finland, where the teaching profession is one of the most prestigious and the best of the class attends the faculty. Unfortunately, that still doesn't apply to us. And if I remain - for your information - in the north of Europe, in Denmark students choose rights as a rescue alternative in case they don't make it to the faculty of education. Thus, rights as a rescue option, it is in the Czech context rather a cry from another galaxy. [[18.20 hours]] From a number of directors I have been in contact with, I know that they had great people in their teachers' congregations who taught very well without having a proper pedagogical minimum. You know, it often depends much more on the man's abilities and his willingness to further educate himself. On the other hand, studying at the Faculty of Education does not automatically turn anyone into a quality teacher or a quality person. The Minister also mentioned that the amendment to the Education Worker Act builds on the salaries of teaching staff on economic growth, so teachers will be sure that their salary will be continuously reviewed as the average wage increases. When this amendment was adopted here in the House in the form of an amendment, it has also fallen, some inaccuracies have remained in it, mostly technical, and I am glad that we have prepared five changes in cooperation with the committee, the Minister of Education, the Ministry of Education and the petitioner, Mr Barton, and in the Senate, have smoothly approved the five changes that you have before you. The first amendment concerns a more precise specification of the teacher's adaptation period for two years after its first employment. For the second change, it's a better connection to the labor code. The third amendment corrects a technical numerical error in the table setting out the percentage increase in teacher salaries. The fourth concerns the transitional period for 2022. This change responds to a macroeconomic estimate that slows the growth of the average nominal wage. Finally, the most important change in paragraph 4, which governs the interpretation of the incorporation of funds to at least one-sixth of the volume laid down in the School Act. Without this adjustment, the Ministry would not be able to apply the calculated normalities and influence the ratio of the fixed and variable part of the salary. As you can see, these are quite technical modifications which, and I would point out, the Senate approved by a overwhelming majority of votes. The whole amendment is the same content as the version, which you have also approved here by almost all the votes of the Members before they were sent to the Senate. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal to you to support the Senate version of the amendment to the Education Worker Act, which is about opening up a profession to practitioners of practice, and especially after technical repairs in the Senate for a bonus for all teachers in the form of establishing their salaries for economic growth. I firmly believe that you will not disappoint their expectations, and you will support the law in the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur for our guarantee committee was Mr Lukáš Bartoň. I'm asking him if he wishes to express himself. No, he doesn't, so I'm opening up a debate. Mr Antonín Staněk is entered into the debate. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for your word - or for giving the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Senator, Minister, in discussing this amendment to the Education Worker Act, I have been criticized for speaking here and, in some opinion, deliberately prolonging the discussion of this law by allowing me to familiarise you with the position of teaching faculties which are preparing primarily future teachers for my profession. Of course, I know that these are not just teaching faculties that prepare future teachers for their pedagogical profession, but they are also other faculties of universities in the Czech Republic. I also understand that in my speech, which I originally wanted to comment on earlier, the Minister concluded one of his speeches by saying something about Mr Staněk's puvoir about the law on teaching workers. For a moment I wondered if the Minister's words were any indication of any attempt to threaten Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, but I thought that after that time, even a little over a year since I sat with the Minister in the same government... [[Interview at the news desk.]] ... Minister, I know that I am not directly addressing you, and I know that you were not the one who initiated this conversation at the counter, but I want to say that I believe that it really was not an attempt to threaten or in any way suggest anything, but unfortunately I have already grown used to the fact that from time to time, even here in the Chamber of Deputies, someone will try to so-called qualified stink the air, that is, to make some interesting point, to suggest or otherwise divert the debate so that those who have to think about things have something to think about and think about what was actually hidden behind that remark. Yes, I admit the fact that I was in a situation where, as a result of the covido infection I had, I had to limit partly my pedagogical activity at the Faculty of Education in Olomouc, and then in connection with other lectures in a certain mode, which of course was not comfortable for me, and this is, of course, the mode of distance education. I consider it very comical when journalists, and I do not know whether they are hired, paid or otherwise motivated, begin to write about what one or the other lecturer of the faculty or other faculty wrote as his lecturer's work or not, whether according to the title of the work I can evaluate its content or the like. I want to say with all responsibility that I stand by my teaching activities at the faculty that I respect him immensely, because every educator who comes to the teaching faculty to teach future teachers deserves respect and respect, and I would not want to be the one who, by acting on these students, would, in any way, reduce their level of readiness. It reminded me a little of the time after 1989, when students are asked if the teacher is qualified enough to educate them. I don't take anybody's right to evaluate an education worker in college. Yes, there are educators who are excellent experts who, of course, have a problem presenting their expertise in a meaningful and reasonable way to their students. Yes, there are those among us who are not quite the great experts, but such are all the professions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a decision whether to vote in favour of the House or the Senate version of the draft law on pedagogical workers. I must say for myself that I will most likely not vote in favour of any of the proposed forms of law. The reason for this is Section 9a, which degrades future teacher education, which is contrary to my conscience and what I believe should not be allowed among teachers. This is totally unacceptable to me. [[18.30 hours]] But I have one big problem, and that's why I keep a certain open door, and that's finance. Yes, it was cunningly implemented in this law to raise salaries, basically to include teachers in a group that significantly improves their pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u7	Dear Member, I am very sorry, but on the basis of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we must now address the electoral points, which means that I am interrupting your speech, interrupting this point. We'll remember, and the stenogram will say that this point has been interrupted in the middle of your performance. So at this point, I'm going to hand over the meeting's management and we're going to focus on the polls.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-002-002.u8	Have a good evening. And now we're going to move on to the fixed points, which are the choices, so I'm going to open the first point.
