ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 569/2020 Coll., on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on the compensation of harm caused by vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 1255/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, whom I would like to ask to take the floor, and I would like to point out to all of you that at 17.30 we will interrupt this point and discuss a fixed point. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me put forward a draft law regulating the reimbursement of vaccination against COVID-19 from public health insurance. It is a proposal that responds to new forms of vaccine collection than it is in accordance with the procedure laid down in the relevant decision of the Commission, which is still a condition for the vaccination to be covered. It is necessary to adopt the draft law as soon as possible, in particular because the Czech Republic has the opportunity to obtain other vaccines, including free of charge, as a gift or a loan from another State, in addition to vaccines taken together by purchasing the Member States of the European Union. These are either vaccines approved by the European Commission under the relevant Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the basis of the favourable opinion of the European Medicines Agency or medicinal products containing vaccines corresponding to vaccines registered in the European Union, such as Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines manufactured for Israel. Increasing the supply of vaccines will speed up the vaccination process of people in the Czech Republic, thus helping to protect their lives and health and will help to prevent economic damage which could be the impact of any necessary antiepidemic measures restricting economic operations. [[17.20 hours]] The material therefore concerns in particular the distribution and reimbursement of vaccines, but also the extension of the possibility of compensation for possible injury should adverse effects occur in a particular case. With regard to the reimbursement, it concerns the distribution of vaccines, vaccination procedures and also the reimbursement of the vaccine itself. Of course, if it were vaccines that the State would receive with a gift, it would not charge the health insurance companies a vaccine to pay for it. As regards the so-called passport case, the relevant European regulation makes it possible to do so in its Article. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 issue an appropriate vaccination certificate for a vaccine against COVID-19 which corresponds to one of the vaccines against COVID-19 disease registered in the European Union. Therefore, the draft law also adheres to the terminology when it refers to a vaccine against COVID-19 disease, which corresponds to a vaccine against COVID-19 disease contained in a medicinal product which has been granted a marketing authorisation under the relevant European regulation. For example, if a person is vaccinated with Pfizer in the United States of America, he will come back to the Czech Republic, so it is possible to grant a particular covid passport, a certificate that he has received vaccination with this vaccine, even though it is not registered by the European Medicines Agency for the European Union. Following some of the amendments that I have noted in the electronic system of the Chamber of Deputies, I further request that it be noted that the proposal does not in any way address the issue of the obligation to be vaccinated. The vaccination against COVID-19 disease is voluntary and nothing is proposed that changes anything in this condition. The proposal has already been discussed within the Committee on Health, which proposes to approve it as amended by the amendment specifying the fact that the vaccines will be used in accordance with the Act on Medicines, which can, of course, be supported. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u3	Thank you. The Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1255/1. I would now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Petr Třešňák, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u4	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues. The very substance of the proposal presented here was summed up by the Minister, and I will not repeat it here again in my reporting report. Before I get to the resolution, allow me to summarize today's debate on the Committee on Health. Despite the fact that the law primarily addresses the conditions for the distribution and reimbursement of the vaccine towards wider payment possibilities for substances that were not purchased through the decision of the European Commission, the Czech Republic received them by gift or by other means, for example by lending, there were two reservations in the discussion. Some of this has already been outlined here by Mr Válek before this point, i.e. doubt as to whether such an adjustment is necessary at all, provided that it is a gift or a loan, where, in fact, the only reason for payment is the application itself, not a vaccine, and secondly, there was confusion over the provisions set out in Art. Article 4 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 which say that medicinal products containing a vaccine against COVID-19 disease are owned by the State and the vaccine against COVID-19 disease contained therein corresponds to a vaccine against COVID-19 disease contained in a medicinal product which has been granted a marketing authorisation under Regulation (EC) No 726/2004. This very word "corresponds" to many speculations not only over the specific types and lots of vaccines to which this provision may apply, but also, for example, to the possible role of SÚKL and, as a result, the conditions laid down in the Act on Medicines, not in this Act, which addresses primarily the remuneration. On the basis of this debate, two amendments by Members of Běhounek and Svoboda have been formulated. Mr Jiří Běhounek's amendment was adopted by the Committee and amended the proposal as follows: Article 1 (1) (a) (ii) and (iii) In the introductory part of the provision, the words "to be used in accordance with the Act on Medicines' shall be inserted after the words "the vaccine against COVID-19 disease' and in the second paragraph of Article 1 (1) shall be inserted after the words "the vaccine against COVID-19'. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) G, in the introductory part of the provision, the words "to be used in accordance with the Act on Medicines" shall be inserted after the words "containing a vaccine against COVID-19 disease." Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's amendment, which the committee did not adopt at last, amended the proposal by repealing the provisions set out in Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) This Regulation shall enter into force on the This Regulation shall enter Now, if I make it, we have five minutes, so I will introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Health: "The Committee on Health at its 94th meeting on 7 July 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 596/2020 Coll., after the opening word of the Minister of Health and Member Petr Třešňák and after the debate... Committee on Health of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on the draft law by Wednesday 14 July 2021 at 13:00 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 569/2020 Coll., on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on the compensation of harm caused by vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended by the related regulations, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended by the corresponding regulations, as amended by the amendment adopted; 1. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In the introductory part of the provision, the words "to be used in accordance with the Act on Medicines" shall be inserted after the words "the vaccine against COVID-19 disease," 2. Article 2 (2) (b) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v)))) (v)) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))))) (v))))))))))) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) Article 4 (1) (a) G, in the introductory part of the provision, the words "to be V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies; VI. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.'; That's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I will call the Members from the lobby because we will decide whether we will have a general debate. That is what we need to vote on. I'll give it a little while. [[Members are returning to the ballroom.]] So we will vote on whether we will lead the general debate on the point that we are discussing at the moment. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 75, 159 Members signed in, 133, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. [[17.30 hours]] And since it's 5:29 p.m. and at 5:30 p.m., we'll be discussing a fixed point, so if there's no objection, I'm interrupting this point, and at 5:30 p.m., we'll start discussing a fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-007-002.u6	Madam, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, it is 5:30 p.m., so now we are going to look at a fixed point, which is a point number.
