ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u1	524. Information of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček on the situation in the steel industry I ask that the Prime Minister take the floor, as is customary when it comes to such information points. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention to present the current situation here within the framework - and I will say this straight away - of Liberty Ostrava, because I assume that point has been provoked, in particular, by the situation that has taken place there in recent weeks. So I'm going to skip the universal presentation of the state of the Czech steel industry. I merely conclude that the steel price has increased in recent months, increased substantially by up to 50 percent, as a result of which European steel plants and therefore Czech steel plants have a chance to catch up on losses from past years and have a chance, if not to prosper, to generate at least solid returns and to be at least reasonable in profitability. All of this suggests that there might not be any problem, but there has been a problem with the parent company Liberty Ostrava, namely the GFG Group, which now includes a number of steel companies not only in Europe but also in Australia. The problem that has arisen with the financing institution of this Greensill group, which has been in serious financial difficulties, is now under the regime of protection against creditors. This is addressed at the level of Great Britain, where the parent company of the Liberty or Liberty Group GFG is also involved, and at the moment the impacts of this situation are being addressed in individual countries. We immediately started negotiations with local management and owners who are directly represented by Sanjeev Gupta, who is also the main owner of the family company that owns these companies around the world. We have concluded that the results of Liberty Ostrava have been quite decent in recent years. In the first quarter we have not yet audited results, however, all indications suggest that they will be the best in the last five years. At the same time, it must be said that so far, and I am saying so far, that is to say until at least the end of last year, the agreements that have been made between the Government and Liberty on the basis of the memorandum that we signed have been implemented. [[11.40 hours]] It should be said that Liberty Ostrava is a fully commercial company, of course the state has no stake there. However, at the time the memorandum was signed, we agreed with the owners of Liberty that, given the importance of the company, the influence on the local environment, the supplier-customer relations - I merely note that there are 5,600 workers and another tens of thousands of workers, approximately 20,000, are bound by the influence of the supplier-customer relations with this company - so at that time we have advocated that one member of the supervisory board will be a representative of the state, namely the Ministry of Industry and Trade, specifically my Deputy Mr Muřický. The other two representatives in the Supervisory Board are for trade unions and three representatives are directly appointed owners, the important thing being that the chairman of the Supervisory Board, who is neither of the trade unions nor of the State, has the right to decide in the event of equal votes. So our position isn't comfortable and it's more or less surveillance. At the same time, management outlined to us at a personal meeting that we had with the Prime Minister on the spot less than a month ago that he intended to sell part of the emission allowances, which is a fixed asset of the company - I merely note that the total value of the emission allowances in Liberty Ostrava is CZK 5.6 billion and is in fixed assets - that he is interested in selling part of these allowances, namely CZK 3 billion, to his other companies in the Liberty Group, namely Galati Romania. We disagreed, however we could not enter into a commercial relationship, but on the other hand the relationships were correct until this time. For example, the state went on to help build a very key power connection from Nošovice to Liberta, which will allow for the construction of electric furnaces. At the same time, the State supports the company in the transition to new technologies in the framework of innovation programmes. At the same time - and this is still important to say - the State, like some other companies, has provided a guarantee of CZK 2 billion through EGAP in the covido period, as well as other companies, under relatively advantageous conditions, with these resources being assigned to the operating activities of the company associated with the purchase of materials, innovations and so on. In other words, we dare to say that the state went to meet society. For this reason, too, we have made it clear that, in principle, we do not agree with the sale of allowances, although we cannot intervene in this, but that we believe that they should remain in the fixed asset level for the development of the company, or as a box of last rescue, if there is a financial problem. And we believe that this is correct from an economic point of view. Management assures us that it does not intend to offer any more allowances to its sister companies and that it will respect our wishes. This was not fulfilled and in the following days it was done that part of the emission allowances had been sold. But objectively speaking, it didn't sell for $3 billion, and we believe that if we hadn't acted there, it would have been $3 billion. He sold for $1 billion in the end. And it must also be objectively said that the options secured a positive financial result, that is, a margin or profit for this operation of CZK 250 million. We expressed our opposition through the Supervisory Board, but it must be said that the Supervisory Board was not informed about this procedure, it was informed back. In our opinion, the supervisory board has been hugged. But on the other hand, according to all indications, there was no conflict with the law. It is likely that the company exercised the right to a single shareholder's decision. The Supervisory Board, or part of the Supervisory Board, which are trade unionists and representatives of the State, immediately wanted an explanation. They immediately sent several key questions to management, to owners, and this process continues. At yesterday's meeting, which I attended in Ostrava with representatives of employees, with representatives of the supervisory board, with representatives of owners, with representatives of management, was not only declared, but proved, which is good news that a large part of the resources for emission allowances had already arrived in Ostrava, even in advance. Yesterday at noon it was 60 percent, the evening it was 75 percent, and according to all the indications and commands that are, the remaining amount should arrive today and tomorrow, or 1 billion should actually be paid. At the same time, I saw with management yesterday that part of these resources, the benefit, under our agreement will be paid as a special reward to all employees, amounting to CZK 13,000 and CZK 70, which was actually done and money is leaving at this point. The rest of the benefit, which could be hundreds of millions of crowns in order, will be used for the development of society. At the same time, management has declared that it does not intend to sell any more allowances. This act is therefore considered closed and should not be transferred to another part of the allowances. I repeat: it is not possible to prevent commercial companies from selling part of their fixed assets from the point of view of the state, but we can, and we have made it clear that if the elementary agreements between employees are not respected, because the employees have also opposed it, between the state and the company, then the state will logically not be open in terms of further support and other benefits that such a company would undoubtedly deserve. On the other hand, we do not want to punish a company that employs 5,600 people and a region from our point of view. It's about the next meeting with the owners that goes on. Through our member on the Supervisory Board, we have requested further documents to transfer emission allowances, at the same time all the supporting documents for further operations going to Liberty Częstochowa, a company in Poland that produces in wages and where we want to be sure, and at least the Supervisory Board clear evidence that, with regard to transfer pricing, there are transfers of resources corresponding to the value of the work or product done. At the same time, we supported a protest meeting of employees yesterday. Needless to say, we deal with the unions at almost daily levels. The unions are doing a good job there, I have to say, and thanks to the unions, I think the situation is rather stable in society. The protest meeting was not a long protest that would disrupt production. It was a protest of several hundred employees who expressed dissatisfaction with management behaviour, or rather owners, and that in their view, with which we identify, all the agreements that were made were not fulfilled. There is one more thing to say, and that is how this transaction took place. I'm sure you remember that the company was owned by ArcelorMittal. Approximately two years ago, the company was sold to the company or group of Liberty Group GFG, and therefore the owner became a new entity, with the European Commission's and, to a large extent, the activities of ArcelorMittal in Europe... it has just been ordered that it must get rid of other activities including activities in the Czech Republic. The first tranche and the first attempt on this acquisition were not approved by the European Commission. From our point of view, it did not approve correctly, because the flow of money for the transaction was not entirely transparent. Then she made a new request, and this was done. [[11.50 hours]] We have warned several times about one important thing that may seem marginal, but from the point of view of business and industry, this is not a marginal thing, and this is the excessive link between Liberty Ostrava and the energy source, which is absolutely essential, and it remains owned - albeit partially - by the original owner of Arcelor and the Polish company. In other words, the key energy source was and is still under the control of the former owner, which, of course, is not good with regard to the independence of society, not to mention that there is logically a little less control of the costs associated with the purchase of energy. Let me finish by saying that we also deal with other ministries in other countries from the point of view of our representative in the Supervisory Board, from the point of view of dealing with owners, but not at the legal level, from the point of view of the international problem, we also deal with other ministries in other countries, namely the Minister of Energy of the United Kingdom and the Minister of Finance of Romania. We agree that we will coordinate our actions continuously, that we will be informed about what happens in individual countries, and this is the case. So the conclusion is that Liberty Ostrava is doing quite well at the moment with regard to its results. It should still be said that the loan drawn by this company, which was guaranteed by EGAP of CZK 2 billion, is currently controlled by the competent authorities in the sense of the purpose of drawing up this loan, and in particular the use of funds from this loan, because the loan was granted under clear parameters and the guarantee will apply if it is shown that the purpose of this drawdown is in accordance with the credit terms and conditions of the guarantee. So we're working on several levels, and at that point, we're expecting the remaining 25 percent for emission allowances to arrive in the next few hours, and the Supervisory Board is checking that the resources are spent in accordance with the agreements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u3	I thank you, and now I ask that Mr Leo Luzar take the floor for the draftsman of this point. If he agrees, he'll be the rapporteur. Agreed, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his opening words because it was comprehensive and answered most of the questions that were needed to be heard in this plenary and also to be heard in Ostrava, which has quite a lot of problems within the Liberty House, and I firmly believe that these words will contribute to calming the situation. But let me just say that the situation didn't come from day to day. You will remember the extraordinary meetings that were already here to Liberty. At that time it was called Mittal Steel Ostrava or ArcelorMittal and was linked to the acquisition of this large multinational company, which was required within the European Union as a repair - or what to call it - a change in the market share that prompted this GFG to acquire assets, parts of ArcelorMittal's assets, that it acquired part of the assets, namely Romanian Hut, Ostrava Hut and other businesses that this giant MittalSteel had to sell in order to operate on the European market. I want to emphasise this for one simple reason, because we must not forget that we are constantly acting here under a certain European Union curate. This process, which is not yet fully completed, is under the supervision of the European Union and the European Union is watching over how it is handled by these companies, in order to maintain mainly employment, production and to ensure that these companies are not merely assigned to move between companies. As the Minister has already indicated in his introductory words, we must also be aware of this aspect and take into account it. Yesterday 700 employees of Liberty Ostrava met in Ostrava, which is about one shift of this company, and they met to protest the potential risks to this company. It is perhaps a paradox that 700 employees on the 70th anniversary of the founding of the then New Huti Klement Gottwald in 1951 had to meet after 70 years and fight for the future of this hut, perhaps indispensable for Ostrava in employment. The hut has a huge advantage - steel prices are rising in world markets and operating profit has risen to 1.6 billion in the last quarter, a very large number, historically unattainable in the past few years. The production volume has increased quite significantly and the steel is very desirable on the world market. Compared to the last two quarters of last year, the production is 20 percent higher, but if we count the next quarter of last year, we are 70 percent higher today than at a time of crisis, which may be considered significant for the steel industry's decline as such in 2020. Here I want to say that the decline in the steel industry may be due to the European plans of Green Deal, but the market behaves differently and the market demands steel, the market demands production and all those customers who buy steel on the free market are already saying that the price of steel is increasing enormously and that it is expensive to produce. And if you realize what all steel is needed for, I have to say I'm not worried about the future of the steel industry, but I'm worried about the future of the steel industry in Ostrava. Because in order for this industry to be in Ostrava, it needs modern hybrid electric furnaces. The Minister has already mentioned the long planned construction of the connection of power lines from Nošovice to Ostrava to Liberty House, but it must also be said that someone has to finance it. As Members and Members, we have tried to speed up, speed up the possibility of construction as much as possible within the Line Act, which we have succeeded in, i.e. by the state and politicians, we have done our utmost possible to speed up construction. Now we expect that the resources that this company has from the sale, the planned sale of steel, for example, from the emission allowances that are enormously growing in the market, will be able to invest and accelerate the construction of this link, which is an investment that will help to calm the situation very much, because the company that invests in its future has a great assumption that it will continue its production in the future and is not just a dedicated step. What caused this problematic situation is the collapse of the Greensill Group. It is within the group a financial entity that is based in the UK and provides loans to the company. It is, of course, controlled as a financial institution by the British supervisory authorities and the bank, yet certain reporting irregularities have led to the collapse of this financial group and the search for solutions to how to deal with these funds now. There is a lot of free money in the world, as we were told from the mouth of the owners of the company, yet there are CZK 2 billion guaranteed by EGAP, which means the Czech state, by which taxpayers were provided to bridge the pandemic problems associated with employment in Liberty Ostrava. That this money cannot currently be used by Liberty Ostrava, the Minister has already mentioned. But the problem is that this money - if I have the information right - pays interest. The company doesn't have them, but of course interest has to be paid because that's how he committed himself. The Minister mentioned the use of the funds, but I also ask about the interest burden borne by the company with this loan and, above all, how EGAP controls and will control the handling of the funds. And as part of the fact that the company is in the current state - Greensill, to be precise and not to apply to the whole group and not to be taken at the word - as a financial institution under the supervision of supervisory authorities, whether EGAP controls the activity of the supervisory administrator in order to avoid future damage to Czech taxpayers. I would also like to ask that, Minister, among other things. [[12.00 hours]] I have one more thing to say. The whole situation is framed in the context of the current emission allowance situation. All those who are a little concerned about this, about energy and other issues related to air pollution, for example, and others, have noticed that the price of emission allowances has increased enormously over the last few days. And if Liberty, if I have the right information, sold for some 47, 48 euros, today we are over 50 euros and these prices are constantly rising. Today's analysis says that speculators have begun to see a huge business in this European Union product and have begun to buy these allowances in great anticipation of huge profits. This Green Deal of the European Union is proving to be slightly vulnerable and easily exploitable. Although it should initially serve to the benefit of industry and to restore the environment, it turns out that it has become a banking institute, a bank source of funds for financial markets, not industry and technology. Here I would very much like the Czech Government to take the necessary steps, and this is urgent, because the price of emission allowances so rocketically increases that the winter heating season in the Czech Republic is threatened. We should all be aware of that here, because those companies will not have the means, and we may also have the programs and funds that we have to restore technology because they will not have the means, because they are connected vessels. And if we don't catch this in time, the Development Fund and the other funds that we're supposed to use in the post-pandemic era can be seriously threatened. I don't want to talk long today, and I want to give my colleagues and colleagues some room to comment. I have prepared a motion for a short resolution, which, first, gives a certain puvoir to the government to act, but above all draws attention to where we see fundamental problems. I have handed out the text to all the representatives of the House of Deputies, and now I dare to read it, and I ask for your attention: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government of the Czech Republic to: - take the necessary steps to prevent the issuance of emission allowances owned by Liberty Ostrava, a. s., for the needs of other companies in the CFG group; - through the Minister of Foreign Affairs, she contacted representatives of the Government of Great Britain with a request for intervention with the owner of the company in respect of the promises and commitments made by the Government of the Czech Republic, including in connection with the promises made when the company was taken over by the previous owner with the conditional consent of the European Commission; - through the financial analysis department of the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic has consistently checked transactions in the sale of emission allowances and provided by the loan guaranteed by EGAP; - without delay, it has taken action in the framework of negotiations between the top representatives of the European Council and the European Commission to regulate the emission allowance market and to prevent speculation in emission allowances.' So much for a motion for a resolution, which I would like to ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u5	I am now initiating a general debate, which was the first to which Minister Jana Maláčová has signed up with priority right, followed by Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for placing the item at the House meeting today, and I have long been looking for it. I was in Liberty myself on April 22nd, where I met the situation. Yesterday I could not be at the protest meeting due to other important dates in Prague, but I at least sent my personal letter to the protesters, and I thank the chairman of the local Slanin trade union for reading and processing our social democratic message to all employees. Liberty employs 5,000 people who are now worried about their jobs, and it has to be said that if the situation escalates in any way, more than 9,000 jobs, which are either with customers, suppliers, and not only from the Moravian-Silesian region, can be negatively affected. The information that the management of the company wants to continue selling emission allowances and continue to make profits from the Czech Republic does not really leave me cold. It turns out that the leadership of Liberty has not fulfilled its commitment, the promise that we have received as government officials, and I think that is another reason to be very vigilant in this situation. If the situation in Liberty were to deteriorate economically and we are really talking about a speculative situation, the effects could be much more serious than in OKD. I believe that really everything that is produced economically in the Czech Republic should be invested in the Czech Republic. The huge problem of making profits is devastating our economy, and I personally care about the modernization of a 70-year-old hut or a 70-year-old hut. The funds from emission allowances should have been used for this. I really think, because as I was in Liberty, I met employees who work there with a really high standard commitment to society for 20, 25, 30 years, often for several generations, so I think it's really extremely important. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs also wants to help people in demanding professions in the long term. Most employees fall into these categories, so one of the basic pillars of pension reform, fair pension reform is just an earlier departure into demanding professions. I must also say that, on the basis of a discussion with Liberty employees and trade unions, we have finely adjusted our pension reform, because, as you know, the system of early retirement should have been counted only in the last 10 years. And I think that hard-working people deserve to be counted more than just the last 10 years, but really a whole worked-out career, because every worked-out 10 years means a year before retirement. So thank you very much to all Liberty employees, mediated again. We, as my dear colleague Minister Havlíček has already said, talked about Liberty's company for Monday's government, and we will get back to that next week. For me, the current information I received is already 75 percent of Liberty's accounts for about a billion of the allowances sold and the rest is due to arrive by the end of the week. And two more things. Political pressure is proving to be working, which is why it is important to discuss this point here in the House of Deputies across the political spectrum, because the original intention was to be threefold higher. And that's the good news that in the end, there was only a 1-billion-dollar transfer. As regards the activities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, let me inform you that we are working intensively with Liberty. The Office of the Work of the Czech Republic provides the company with contributions within the framework of the POVEZ II project, which is focused on the education of employees. Since 2016, Liberty was paid, or at that time ArcelorMittal, today Liberty, CZK 2,9 million for educational contributions to 459 employees. I also consider it important to mention that Liberty drew funds from the Antivirus programme from March 2020 to February 2021. The amount of the contributions granted was CZK 34.6 million, either under scheme A or under scheme B. Liberty expects an increase in profit to CZK 1.6 billion for the first quarter of 2021, which is the best quarterly result since GFG Alliance took over. This I think shows that the steel industry has a future and that it is all the more important not to make profits from the Czech Republic. [[12.10 hours]] One last thing. I consider the situation alarming, as a threat to jobs in the Czech Republic and as a threat to the domestic industry. All the more important is the situation, because it is - the Moravian-Silesian Region is a structurally affected region, which has a much higher unemployment rate than the average of the Czech Republic, at the moment 5.9 percent of the unemployed, and it is all the more urgent that we, as a political representation of this situation, fully address this situation and we have given a clear political signal that the future of Liberty and, in particular, its employees, is a vital issue for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u7	Now, on a point of fact... I have two factual points, so Mr Aleš Juchelka and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, I will be a little shorter. I would just like to say that the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region Ivo Vondrák is very closely monitoring all the events surrounding Liberty Ostrava. They're in very intensive communication here with the Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček. We can say that the head of the Moravian-Silesian Region is negotiating with the trade unions, is in contact with management, is in contact with the Minister, so within the region, de facto nothing like this is being underestimated in communication, and I, of course, thank the Governor and the Minister here very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u9	Now a factual point - Mr Stanislav Grospič and Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will also perhaps be brief, but perhaps a little more narrow, because we have to realize that there was a resolution - a point about privatisation crimes - and there is simply to say that in 1991 the assets of the former Nové Huti Klement Gottwald were set aside in the amount of CZK 12 billion 612 which went into the Fund of the Czech Republic's assets, and on that basis the creation of the joint-stock company Nová huť and Liberty - he vanished this state enterprise on 7 January 1998, subsequently in liquidation on 14 June 2005 by removal from the Commercial Register - and the state, following a failed partial privatisation into the hands of the management associated in Petrcíle, sold in 2003 a majority stake in the company 67,20 percent of the shares of LR Holding from the predecessors of ArcelorMittal, and then today's Liberty. [[million]] I just want to point out that this is a classic example of when the state privatized, got rid of it completely, and then when it flows into the hands of employees, a completely private company calls out: "Don't talk to us in business, we'll make our own decisions, but the moment we get into trouble, we'll have to be taken care of. The state must take care of its employees to keep the peace of state and to guarantee them the work and earnings they deserve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u11	Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will now speak, and Minister Maláčová apologizes because the government is about to begin, so for this reason she must apologize for work reasons. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I will extend this a little bit. I really listened carefully to Mr. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček saying that when I personally visited Liberty in the past week accompanied by my colleagues from Ostrava, we talked about the situation, so far I have not heard the opinion of how to deal with the fact that part of the shares of Liberty was stopped by the parent company to the city of Bremen, which, according to my court, is very risky for us given that the insolvency administrator, who actually decides on the parent company, can use the suspended shares in some way, and it will not be a Czech-British dispute or dispute with the owners, but will be another entity, this time a public corporation, and this is the city of Bremy. That stopped me, and that is why I reacted to managers, but also to trade unions quite clearly, that it would be appropriate for us to start negotiating those suspended shares with the insolvency administrator of the parent company and with the owners to redeem them. This means that we react earlier and basically at least become co-owners of the company and thus can increase our influence as the Czech Republic towards the entity. I confirm what has been said here that the company's performances are positive, that they have both manufacturing equipment and materials and people. People would need 200 more, as we were informed, so they could meet even more needs of the Czech Republic. I remind you that part of their production is needed for our large line constructions, which is why I believe that taking over by the State, whether through Prisko or in other ways, would be beneficial for the State given what is ahead of us in the infrastructure that we have before us, and we have it in the budgets of both the Ministry of Transport, but especially ŘSD or SŽ already prepared and need to think about it. This would, of course, ensure enough of what is needed for these construction companies and, moreover, we would not have the constant threat that not only will the profits from Liberty be made, but that the shares of this company will not essentially be used to compensate for losses that have been incurred anywhere else than the Czech Republic. I am based on the fact that in an operation that the state did against the shareholders of OKD, I would say to the Czech Republic instant profit and, of course, we prevented the company and the values created in the Czech Republic from being carried out abroad. Therefore, I would ask the Vice-President of the Government, Minister Havlíček, whether this consideration is in the Government's consideration, because, of course, the purchase would have to be decided in the government, and I think that the negotiations would be positive both for Liberty and for the removal of the problem that may arise here, given that the liabilities that the parent company had are guaranteed by the property of the subsidiary, and the insolvency administrator will probably not be the one with whom we have, as Minister Havlíček said, so far good relations. That's what I thought was one of the most risky moments when I talked to the managers, and the unionists expressed the same concern. [[12.20 hours]] I don't see anything in this that should in any way disrupt our budget management, because such funds could certainly be allocated by the state in its budget, plus the profit that Liberty makes would then go back to us as co-owners, or if the entire ownership of the shares were bought, of course, it would go to the State. So I think that this reasoning has a rational core and it also has a future, as my colleague Luzar said here in his opening performance, an important moment, because the perspective of steel industry in the Czech Republic is already from the point of view of our own needs of the state as an organizer, but also an investor of large line constructions. That, in my opinion, is quite essential. And I believe that this trend would allow us a much, much faster and more effective solution to the situation in favour of both the Liberty employees themselves and the downstream operations that are there. As far as the energy transfer to new furnaces is concerned, I believe that it would be necessary to deal even more with the Czech energy transmission system, i.e. with CEPS, so as to allocate resources to build investment in both Liberty and ČEPS. I consider it necessary, I do not think that this should be paid by the company, because, of course, the supply of energy is also part of the state's energy concept itself and the maintenance of the large system that CEPS manages. I think it should be our goal that the energy system should be fully in the hands of the state, so that we do not leave the individual parts to private entities. As we know from the infamous privatization of Poldi Kladno, when the department of the energy block meant essentially later collapse of Kladno on more than a deep bottom, rather to the mud on the bottom, which was, and as Poldi Kladno turned out, we know. So, in my opinion, this is a matter that deserves more attention from the government, from those who decide, and I would like Minister Havlíček to answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u13	Mrs Pavla Golasowská will now appear, so far it is - at the moment I have the last application for the general debate. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Havlíček for finally getting to this point on the House floor, and I would also like to thank Minister Havlíček for being here, and also actually for his speech, when he actually answered many, and my questions, which I had prepared. I'm from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I'm from Třinec, so I grew up in the shadow of the Třinec Ironworks chimneys. And, as they say, Ostrava is the steel heart of the Republic, so I think it still applies, and that is why the situation in Liberty, as it is now, is very important to me, I think that the Moravian-Silesian region is crucial for people to continue to have jobs. Liberty Ostrava is an integrated steel company with an annual production capacity of 3.6 million tonnes of steel. And I must say, very good steel. You may recall when we fought against imports of low-quality, cheap Chinese steel three years ago, and it really wasn't easy because our steel industry was really threatened. Liberty Ostrava is a domestic leader in the production of road guardrails and pipes, among other things, and besides the Czech market it supplies its products to more than 40 countries in the world. Along with its subsidiaries, it has about 6,000 employees, which has already been said here, and with other related services - I have information that it may be up to 30,000 employees, so we can imagine that if Liberty Ostrava stopped working, what it would mean for the Moravian-Silesian Region. Liberty produces its products with a minimum possible impact on the environment thanks to above-standard environmentalization. I may have... a little history of what has already been said here to sell emission allowances. This means that on April 16 Liberty's leadership promised not to sell any emission allowances, but on April 30 it did so. I can say that we were at a business meeting that day with the management of Liberty and then with the unions, where the unions actually expressed great concern that he was going to tunnel Liberty Ostrava. That is why yesterday was also a protest meeting, which was preceded by a strike emergency until 30 April. The company also announced yesterday that each employee would receive a reward of CZK 13,000 for the 70th anniversary of the founding of the hut. However, employees are of the opinion that they deserve remuneration regardless of the sale of allowances or whether it is an anniversary. As has already been said here, 75 percent of the amount for the sale of emission allowances has arrived, and I therefore believe that the rest will also arrive by the end of the week and that Liberty Ostrava will also invest in production and in its company. However, the union's fears that the metal will be tripped still exist here. And that is why I want to say once again that I am very glad that the Minister of Industry and Trade Havlíček is here, and I will ask him very much and also the Government to keep Liberty Ostrava in mind and to follow the steps that Liberty is going to take. And I also thank Minister Maláčová, because, as I have already mentioned, if Liberty Ostrava were to go bankrupt, that would mean a lot of unemployment, and the question is, what about these people, because I'm sure the Moravian-Silesian region doesn't have so many thousands of jobs where these people could be placed, where they could find a new job. And we need to realize that they're family breadwinners. Finally, I would like to say that we certainly support the resolution that has been loaded here under the KDU-ČSL. Once again, thank you all for your patience, all of you who have supported this point, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u15	Now - yes, Mr Cernohorsky to the general debate. Please. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna be very quick, I don't think I'm gonna sum it up at all. I just wanted to ask the Minister whether, as Vice-President Filip suggested here, you are considering the option and the takeover, or, if necessary, the purchase of suspended shares in case they were to be sold on the free market or anything, and whether you are possibly preparing some sort of plan with the Minister if the worst happens and the funds, including allowances, were eventually made. Because, as you mentioned yourself here, obviously everyone was promised not to do so, then the Supervisory Board and everyone did, and obviously it's disrupting each other's quite trust in management, which decides in this way. So if you're planning some kind of plan for those employees, it's essentially not gonna destroy them economically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u17	I will look around to see if anyone else wants to speak at all in the general debate. I don't see anyone, so I'm done with the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Minister Havlíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u18	Thank you for the discussion. To those challenges or questions: at the moment, the state does not address the issue of potential entry into society, whether at the level of buying shares that are stopped or on a different basis, because the problem is indeed a European character today. The group throughout Europe is very strongly linked. You know that the state has done this in the past in a truly critical situation. This was especially with regard to OKD, which was completely plundered, and if the state had not entered through Prisko, OKD would no longer exist. I daresay it was saved back then, and in truth there was no other way. The question of New Huti Arcelor and Liberty: there is not only a current problem for discussion, but it must be realised that by the time the company was controlled by Arcelor Group, a dividend was paid there in the order of tens of billions of crowns, resources were taken out of this company, and I consider it to a large extent a mistake for previous governments to allow this to happen to this situation. At the moment, the situation is not of the nature that the state would necessarily have to enter, but in any case we are monitoring the situation, we are looking for all the ropes that are there, and in any case the state declares that if the situation were critical, if it were close to the fact that society could be lost, and people would lose their jobs, that it would disrupt relations in the region, so it is also ready for these extreme solutions and variants we have prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u19	I'll ask if the plaintiff is interested in the final word? You have, or at the same time, the rapporteur and the appellant. Yes, please, Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u20	Thank you. I was only very briefly given the opportunity here to consult the motion for a resolution with the Minister, he warned me of two minor irregularities. The first minor irregularity that I would ask you to correct in writing is in the first paragraph: she has taken further necessary steps, or just the word "other" is added there. And in the third paragraph, I was warned that the financial analysis service had limited control options, so the Minister asked that he be able to use the whole range of state authorities, so that it would be there "through the authorities of the state of the Czech Republic to thoroughly verify the transaction". These are the only motions for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u21	We will now proceed to the debate in detail. That's where we'll just sign up for the resolution? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u22	I would like to sign up here for the resolution that I have already read, so I assume you all know what we will then vote on. Excuse me, I won't say it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u23	Do I want to ask if anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate? I don't see anyone. I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there still an interest in the final words after a detailed debate? Not anymore. Let us therefore, rapporteur, vote on the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u24	I would like to propose a voting procedure so that we vote suddenly on all four points. They have been consulted both by the Minister and by all political club representatives, unless someone has said so - so we will proceed on a case-by-case basis. [[Someone's protesting.]] I will read it gradually, and then we will vote on individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u25	Yes. Is there anyone who opposes us voting on a case-by-case basis? Do you want me to put it to a vote? I don't think that's necessary. We will vote on individual points. There's an application for check-out, so I'm checking you out. Log in again with your voting cards. [[Gong.]] It's only now that we've outdone the kvorum. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u26	The first vote would be: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take further necessary steps to prevent the issuance of emission allowances owned by Liberty Ostrava, a. s., for the needs of other companies in the GFG Group."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u27	May I ask the Minister's opinion? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 323, 79 Members signed up, for 78, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u28	Second vote: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to contact representatives of the Government of Great Britain with a request for intervention with the owner of the company in respect of the promises and commitments made by the Government of the Czech Republic, even in connection with the promises made when taking over the company from the previous owner, with the conditional consent of the European Commission."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u29	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 324, 81 Members voted in favour of 78 against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u30	Third vote: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to thoroughly review transactions related to the sale of emission allowances and the loan guaranteed by EGAP."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u31	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 325, 82 Members registered, for 72, against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u32	Last vote: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to take immediate action in the framework of negotiations between the top representatives of the European Council and the European Commission leading to the regulation of the emission allowances market and to prevent speculation on emission allowances."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-06-ps2017-098-11-006-524.u33	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 326 83 Members registered, for 36, against 1. The motion was denied. That's all. Thank you, plaintiff, thank you, Minister. I'm done with this point. We'll proceed to the next point. This is about
