ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u1	203. Proposal by Members of Vojtěch Filip, Stanislav Grospič, Jiří Valenta and Miloslava Vostrá to issue a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Sb., Act on Conflict of Interest, as amended / House print 638/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 638/1. I ask that a Member and Vice-President Vojtěch Filip present the proposal for the appellants. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I believe that it would be important for all citizens of the Czech Republic, but also for the stability of the system, that those who are paid out of public funds, whether on taxes or other charges, should also be part of those who submit property returns. Those who are paid out of fees are workers, professional journalists of Czech Television and Czech Radio, and their relationship to public budgets is given precisely by paying a television and radio fee every month, and the licence fee is stipulated by Law No. 348/2005 Coll., on radio and television charges. A natural person is obliged in the Czech Republic to pay a monthly flat-rate fee for the possibility of receiving television and radio signals. Entrepreneurs then pay for each machine used for the business separately. From these fees, the operation and development of Czech Television and Czech Radio are subsequently financed as operators of the so-called public service. The concession fees form the basic component of the income framework of the two public bodies mentioned above and are exempt from its payment only from persons affected by bilateral deafness or blindness, persons with low incomes whose net income over the previous calendar quarter is less than 2,15 times the minimum of life, foreigners who have not been granted a permanent or long-term residence permit in the Czech Republic, and persons who do not own a television and radio receiver. One of the basic responsibilities of public media is the provision of objective, verified and, in its entirety, balanced and versatile information for the free creation of opinions. This situation is not always fully implemented, as evidenced not only by hundreds of complaints from citizens, dealers, but also by individual critical evaluations by the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, in which financial sanctions have been imposed in administrative proceedings. In order to ensure compliance with the legal obligation of citizens to access balanced and objective information, it is important that journalists themselves are protected from the bullying and unjustified suspicions of professional public journalists, and a proposed amendment is therefore tabled, which is in fact the only thing that is being added essentially by a professional journalist of Czech Television to the list of those who submit property returns. As far as managers are concerned, they are already listed in the original provision. This bill does not affect the state budget and budgets of the regions and municipalities. It is in accordance with constitutional order and international obligations under Article 10a of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and is also in accordance with the law of the European Communities. It has no impact on the business environment. I have avoided changing that part, which means that the letter (r) in Section 2 of Law No. 159/2006 Sb. and that it should be enough. Given the way the negotiations are going, this means that it has been read as an amendment to the previous press, which is a year younger than our proposal, so I suggest that we release this press by first reading, put it on committees, and then interrupt it basically until the previous one is discussed, and that when it passes, the appellants will take back the amendments that we have read or have been read by a colleague of Valenta in the press 956, we would have taken the proposal back. Until then, he would have remained the subject of negotiations with the Chamber of Deputies, with the fact that his proceedings were suspended until the press was completed 956. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u3	Thank you. I take it that this proposal will then be dealt with by the guarantee committee. Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Barbora Kořanová, whom I saw in the House, to take the floor, but I do not see her now in the hall. I'll wait a while if he shows up, or we'll have to look for another newsletter. [[The MP is coming into the hall.]] I ask the rapporteur to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u4	Thank you very much. Sorry I'm late. I was running out of the bathroom. The petitioner, or one of the petitioners, has already given detailed reasons for this amendment. Basically, it concerns the licence fees of public media. The point is that one of the basic obligations of public media is to provide objective, balanced and versatile information. The point is that the sole beneficiaries of the so-called licence fees are Czech Television and Czech Radio. The point is that a natural person in the Czech Republic is obliged to pay this monthly fee. It is intended to pay for the possibility of receiving television and radio broadcasting for each apparatus used for business separately. These fees are subsequently financed by the operation and development of Czech Television and Czech Radio and so on. The reason for the submission is therefore to defend public media against frequent suspicions of bias and also to prevent bullying and unjustified suspicions of professional public journalists. Thank you, and I'm sorry again for being so inhaled, I was really catching up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u5	Thank you. I am opening a debate to which Mr Jakob has come forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, here, under the cover of the defence of the objectivity of public media, this is another absolutely outrageous attack on Czech television, respectively Czech Radio. I know why colleagues from government benches are laughing, I guess they haven't read the government's position on this proposal. It's completely purposeful, because this doesn't belong in the area governed by the conflict of interest law at all, and there's no reason for that at all. Of course, the Czech Television Act, the Czech Radio Act and the Great Broadcasting Act address this issue. In both of these media public services have approved codes, which, of course, are governed by journalists. The arguments put forward by the non-objects of these public service media are merely evidence of an attack on public media. This proposal is unconstitutional, it is an intervention in the right to privacy. At the same time, it is contrary to European Union law, the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. It operates with a strange notion of a professional journalist who is nowhere defined. I don't know why - probably because of the fees - but we only deal with journalists from Czech Television, from Czech Radio, we do not deal with the Czech Press Office. What I have said here, you will also read in the Government's opinion, so I assume that the government Members will vote in favour of the proposal I submit, so I propose a rejection at first reading. At the same time, I warn against the amendment that fell to the previous press, which is the same. And I point out once again that it is unconstitutional so that the Constitutional Court does not have to deal with it again. This is a communist attack on media freedom, which is unconstitutional and contrary to European legislation. Please let us stop this pasquil right at the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u7	Thank you. I've recorded the proposal. However, I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the general debate? I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word from the plaintiff? [[Yes.]] It is, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u8	Thank you, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen. Of course, I will let everyone make their own views, but perhaps one thing in the final word must be mentioned. Of course, I also had the construction of all public media, i.e. the CTK, which can also have a mediated relationship to the state budget according to the law. But in the end, I didn't use the structure and I only used the design of the recipient of the fee, meaning Czech Radio, Czech Television. It is not true that a professional journalist is not described anywhere. In each annual report of the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio Council, the number of professional journalists is listed as such. So it's just to explain it so the facts aren't tampered with here. So the structure is clear, that's why there won't be any other media. We are in a dual system, which means a system of public media - a system of private media. I keep the dual system in the very design because private media are not receiving any amount of fees. Although that may be the case, because of course there is a system or there are systems, in a world where they can apply for public service, for the fee they give, even private media, and then they provide it to citizens just within the framework of their public service, for which they are paid out of public funds. But this is not a system in the Czech Republic. The system in our country is clear, primarily dual, and I strongly disagree with the fact that it would be unconstitutional. I repeat, I ask for a first reading, a committee assignment, then a committee interruption until the press 956 is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u9	Thank you, that was the final word of the plaintiff. I've called all your colleagues to the O.R., thank you for coming. I should have given room for the rapporteur's final word, but I can see that Mrs Černochová is reporting with priority rights for the ODS, I presume. So I'll give her my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to ask for a five-minute recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u11	Okay, thank you. So if we can get to that, Mrs Kořanová is no longer interested in the final word? It's not like that. In that case, we should vote now. So, at the request of the ODS Club, I'm declaring a five-minute break until 16.41 hours. Thank you. Then we'll meet here again for the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u12	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 16.41. The time required for a break from the club, Vice-President Černochová, has passed, so if no one else has anything else, we will proceed to the vote. I will therefore repeat that we will be voting on the rejection of the House's press 638 now, at first reading. I believe that all who want to be logged in are logged in. There's an application for check-out, I'll check you out. Please sign up with your cards, after all, there was quite a movement in the hall... Looks like there's enough of us, so when the number of applicants settles, we can vote. I repeat that we will vote on the rejection of the proposal, which means the House press 638, first reading. I see that our numbers seem to have stabilized and that we can therefore vote. Initiating vote. I said, who's in favor of rejection? Who's against it? Thank you. At the end of the vote number 90, 92 Members and Members were enrolled, for 36, against 16. I am of the opinion that the motion to dismiss has not been accepted. So now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Election Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see another suggestion, so I'm gonna call my colleagues into the O.R. one more time and we're gonna vote. I'm opening the vote and asking who, by order of the electoral committee, is a guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. There are 92 Members and Members registered in the 91 vote, for 79, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Election Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose ordering this press to other committees. Does anyone have a proposal for other committees? Mr. Cernohorsky. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u13	I would ask for a second committee constitutionally-legal, because, of course, there were also some assumptions about the fact that this is a law that would be contrary to the Constitution, so I would be interested in the opinion of the constitutionally-legal one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-012-203.u14	Thank you. That is one proposal for another committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal for another committee? I don't see any suggestions, so we're going to vote. I am initiating vote number 92 and I am asking who is the next committee in favour of the commandment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 92 Members and Members in the 92 vote, for 77, against no one. I note that we have ordered the proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee. This seems to have exhausted all the proposals that should now be put to the vote. So I'm done discussing this press at first reading and closing point 203. Let's move on to the next point. We have a proper item number now.
