ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 569/2020 Coll., on the distribution of medicinal products containing vaccines for vaccination against COVID-19 disease, on the compensation of harm caused by vaccinated persons by these medicinal products and on the amendment of Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on public health insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended /German press 1255/ - shortened negotiations Where, as far as I know, we have approved that we will hold a general debate, so I am opening this general debate and the first to sign up is the Member... Mr Benda is reporting with a procedural remark. And I see that the plaintiff and rapporteur's desk is empty, so we should probably fix that, too. The Minister is present, the rapporteur is Mr Petr Třešňák, so I will also ask him to come and watch the debate if necessary. Mr. Benda, I'll give you my word on a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u2	No, no, no, I'm applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u3	With priority rights, aha! I think that if you have no objections, I think that it is generally possible to continue without a rapporteur. The rapporteur is already present, he reached the second entrance, so please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues will undoubtedly say the substantive reservations. I would like to make one more general remark here about the activities of the Ministry of Health and this desperate abuse of the state of legislative emergency. It's just not normal anymore. I know you've gotten used to it in the last three quarters of a year, that everything is being discussed in a state of legislative emergency. The results are that half of the measures issued by the Ministry of Health in exactly this way and precisely with this legislation are abolished by the Supreme Administrative Court as totally illegal. I'm afraid this law has exactly the same characteristics. You can't do that! To think that I have a majority in the House and that I have frightened the entire society by rampaging around the covideo and around the fact that we must still have rapid regulations, when every day a new one has to pay. [[17.50 hours]] You are solving a problem that arose sometime three or four months ago when the Prime Minister brought some vaccines from Israel. And all of a sudden, we're pretending that we have to sort this out by day two or day three instead of starting some normal debate here. Any normal minister would come to the House, he would say: We need to solve this problem, let's find a consensus across the Chamber of Deputies, what can be discussed in Section 90, so that I do not have the veto of two parliamentary clubs, I would find some cross-cutting consensus, if it is really necessary and so necessary, then I would eventually come here with a 90. It completely ignores the Department of Health, it's used to it being able to issue everything with extraordinary regulations. President of the House of Deputies says a little alibistically everything that is delivered to him: I will not judge it, let the honourable Chamber of Deputies judge it - the honourable Chamber of Deputies then judges it in a state when ordinary pairing was cancelled today with the fact that things were to be discussed that were to be returned from the Senate, in the end only the 545 House press, which was in the complete consensus of the vast majority of the House, was approved in the Senate version, that is, the summoning of government MPs and the termination of the couple led only to the fact that the government coalition, this time, really only the coalition, even without the communists - perhaps with one vote - has a majority in legislative distress. Do we think it's wise to push the law this way? You don't know what you want from this, the health committee negotiations were so confused that everyone who came at them, I think, was leaving with an even more unclear feeling of what was to be dealt with. Are these gifts? Or the loans we're returning? Does he really mean that the moment he gets a gift from someone, the insurance companies will inoculate him and the gift will be paid to the state? The state really wants to make money on insurance companies to fix the health department's balance sheet, to pay him back the things he received with a gift? And more questions. To me, it just seems a frighteningly unhappy way of discussing the House of Presses of this importance, of abuse of the state of legislative emergency, otherwise I can't call it. We all know that this isn't in any dramatic hurry, we don't even know what it's gonna take. We have a lot more vaccines today than we care about in society. It's no problem to register for any more vaccinations today, so let's not pretend that we need a bill like that. I think the material reservations will be raised, and there I dare not touch the doctors, what a similar substance means, whether it means that something outside might come into it or not. I defend myself against the legislative procedure, which is elected and which I consider to be truly inappropriate, the corresponding logic of the Ministry of Health for the last year, which has become accustomed to commanding the country, will command everyone, and the results that result from this are unfortunately still very trivial, even in the legal field. I strongly recommend that the Chamber of Deputies consider whether it wants to continue discussing matters and proposals from the Ministry of Health in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u5	Thank you. We have seven minutes before a new point needs to be opened, however, if I have the right information, we are actually opening a general debate now, and Mr Bohuslav Svoboda is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The time that is defined to me only confirms what my colleague Benda said that such things should not be discussed in this way. That's just undignified, and most importantly, our decision may not be right because it will be rushed. The law that is being presented to us today is a law that, in our opinion, is actually useless, because it solves everything that is already solved, and in addition, it opens one chapter, which we fundamentally disagree with. The law states that the funds given from the state budget on the basis of the Commission's decision will be used, but that, in addition to these funds, vaccines which are owned by the State which the State has purchased or obtained, which are registered under Regulation 726/2004 may also be used. But then there is another point that says that to ensure vaccination of patients in the territory of the Czech Republic it is possible to use means that are owned by the State and the vaccine against COVID-19 disease contained therein corresponds to the vaccine against COVID-19 disease contained in a medicinal product that has been granted a marketing authorisation under the Regulation of the European Agency 726/2004. This is a thing that is indeed more than dangerous, because it opens up space so that we can include in our vaccination portfolio things that did not go through the approval of the European Commission. The reason for this is that this scheme is intended to introduce the distribution and payment of public health insurance for vaccination by a medicinal product containing a vaccine which corresponds and so on. In this case, the Act on Medicines can be applied to a process under which authorisation may be granted to distribute and use a product which is not registered by the European Agency but contains the same vaccine. Who determines what the same vaccine is? Who's to say it can be vaccinated? Who's going to guarantee that the vaccine has the quality it's supposed to have? Of course, we know that in time license preparations are always made for the original preparations. License preparations have one flaw. In most cases they are equally effective but have different side effects. Who's gonna tell our patients who are so struggling with whether or not they're gonna be vaccinated with something that didn't pass the approval? Who's gonna tell them? I'm sure we doctors don't want to tell them. It is a matter that is completely contrary to the fact that we need to achieve that we inoculate as many people as possible. We're putting in space a thing that's questioning the quality of the vaccination, that it's going to match something. And it has nothing to do with the fact that we have received some gifts that represent the drug produced by Pfizer, and it doesn't matter whether it's produced for Israel or for Europe, it's produced in the same factory, the same technology, the same principle and the same substance. Why do we have to pass it by law when the preparation is the same, it's made in the same factory, it's accepted by the American Association, it's accepted by all organizations, and we're gonna make a special law for it? The law has one thing that is new there that we can accept for vaccination any substance that may not be registered by the European Medicines Agency and contains the same vaccine. No one says how the same vaccine is defined, on which basis the Ministry of Health will implement this decision, because it also says here that, on the basis of the decision of the Ministry of Health following the publication of the expert opinion of the State Institute for Drug Control, it will be included in the medical programme. Who's gonna make that decision at the Department of Health? How will the SÚKL agency carry out the inspection? What technology? What kind of material? This is an absolutely essential thing that moves vaccinations to a completely different level. It puts them on the table to discuss whether we have something or not to get it in some other, not entirely official way, and it completely goes away that we should first of all be careful to use things that are approved, which are registered and for which the maximum possible guarantee of quality and the maximum possible guarantee that there will be no side effects. [[18.00 hours]] If it were the way you say it was only to put Pfizer into operation, then this law would be completely useless, because Pfizer can be used without having this law. But it is clearly written here, using a medicinal product that is not registered by the European Medicines Agency. And Pfizer is not registered by the European Medicines Agency? So how can we give it? How can we apply it if it's not registered? Those are all the questions I'm asking, I've got more questions, and I'm sure we'll get back to them, but my time seems to have come true...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-009-002.u7	Ambassador, I must interrupt you, of course you will be able to continue your performance when we reopen this point. [[Member of Freedom: Thank you.]] I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. However, we now have a firm 18-hour election block, which we will begin with, point 389 which is
