ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - third reading We launched this item on 12 February at the 79th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the debate. I ask that the rapporteur's position be taken - and has already been taken in - by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, as well as by the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. I would remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 1025/5, which was delivered on 22 January 2021 and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 1025/6. We will therefore continue with the interrupted debate in which I have two Members with priority... the Minister with priority rights and then the Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Chvojka Club with priority rights. So Minister Jana Maláčová will be the first to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me inform you that we agreed at coalition level that we would want to return this important bill to second reading, because it is such an important draft that it is really crucial that we agree on its final text. This is about saving jobs in the Czech Republic. You know, the unemployment forecast in the coming months doesn't look good. And because we have a good experience of discussing the pandemic law - and I stress once again that this is a key draft, so yesterday we agreed with the Prime Minister that next week we will invite all representatives of all the parliamentary parties to this discussion, invite all four representatives of tripartite plus also the Chamber of Economics to this meeting and we will want to find agreement across the political spectrum to the draft employment law, which means that this key draft is functional and agreed across all the actors involved, that is to say, representatives of parliamentary parties in the Chamber of Deputies and also all the social partners. For me, this is the right way to go right now. At the same time, I appeal that we really - and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will do our utmost - to agree on this as quickly as we did in the pandemic law in the week from 1 March. That means, that's the procedure I support. Next week, in particular, the parties and the presidents of the MPs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will contact you to structure the whole debate, because you know that we have already completed it in the autumn and the aim is really to agree and have a functioning, good law on cursarbeit. One thing that doesn't have anything to do with it, and now I'm taking the liberty of the Vice President - I just can't forgive myself for that remark. Please don't take this the wrong way, but I would still appeal to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, because here he is, I suspect 100 people in the same room and we often stay here for hours. So, given the current pandemic situation, I would urge us to find a solution in the coming days and weeks to maintain the functioning of the Chamber of Deputies and not at the same time endanger the state of health of most of us. I think that the government has been sitting in a distance regime for a year now, and I think that there should be a will to find a regime to ensure this for the Chamber of Deputies. I think it's important. I know it can be perceived negatively, but those who have been trying to avoid infection for a year, so I think that in such a large amount of hours and hours sitting here, it is epidemiologically dangerous, and I think we should set an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u3	Now, just the order, because you're reporting from the scene, that's okay. So wait, I'll read it. Now the chairman of the CSSD club Jan Chvojka with priority rights, then... [[A reminder from the O.R.]] Yeah, well, in that case, I've got a guy here who's gonna be speaking on behalf of the ODS club, Mr. Jan Bauer. [[Voice from the O.R.]] All right, well, see, I predicted it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. With reference to what the Minister said: Yesterday there was a meeting between the representatives of the coalition plus, of course, with the tolerance of the communists. Of course, most parties know about it, and if they have their information, they agree. This means that we would really like to discuss this very important amendment to the Employment Act at second reading, where various amendments can still be proposed. It is a press that needs some more detailed discussion. At the same time, it is an amendment that should not be directed only at the state that is now, that is, to the pandemic, but this very important amendment should be effective and stick with us as long as possible, because we never know what will happen in the future in various crises. It doesn't have to be a pandemic, it has to be floods or other misfortunes. Therefore, I would suggest that we vote that this press will come back, that we return it to second reading by our decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u5	We will vote on your proposal at the end of the debate. Now I ask, Mrs Pastuchová? But you will be after Mr Bauer. So, Mr Bauer, Mrs Pastuchová and Mr Juříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, if our German colleagues were to listen to you now or see what kind of bluff and what kind of potato you made out of cursarbeit, I feel that they might even have to turn against the fact that we borrowed their German word for their very functional law. I would like to say that the fact that today cursarbeit is a symbol of bluff and potato sauce is not a mistake of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd really like to put up with that. We are like the Civil Democratic Party - and I feel that, perhaps after seeing a six-month discussion at the Social Committee, I am perhaps speaking for the whole opposition - we have been extremely helpful to this, we have all taken part in round tables, and we have announced to the government coalition that this country deserves a functional cursarbeit, that we are ready to bring some amendments, if necessary, and we wish this country to have this law. Unfortunately, you, that means, above all, a government coalition, you really turned it into a potato. I don't want to go back to that, because at second reading, I said here what had been going on since spring last year, about how the secretary here convinced us in the fall of last year that the original proposal had to be approved in an emergency situation approved by the government. I don't think you'll ever get a second chance to make a first impression again, and you just messed up that first impression. On the other hand, to say something positive: we are once again ready to be constructive. Of course, we want and will participate in all round tables, as we have behaved in the past, but unfortunately the taste that you are unable to introduce to this House and the Czech public some meaningful and functional law, which will always be between us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u7	Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now appear and prepare Mr Juříček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr President. For our club of the ANO movement I join the proposal to return to second reading. I agree with Mr Bauer by means of you that this is a potato potato. I hope we can work out a common consensus. I would also like to comment on the Minister's warning on the security of all of us here. I, as a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, must stand up for the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies because we are regularly informed as Members how to behave, what the conditions are here. I think the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies is doing everything for it. We sit here all the time, you come to your law. I think the House is doing everything for us, and it's up to each of us how it stands and stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u9	Mr. Juříček will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Unlike Honza Bauer, through the President, I would very much like to thank Minister Jana Maláčová for this gesture that we will withdraw it to second reading, because in a way it is courage to admit that we have not done something quite well. There are two suggestions. One proposal is, without doubt, a better system, Jana Pastuchová's proposal and Aulická's colleague, on the other hand, the proposal prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which Roman Sklenák read here through the President, has some advantages, of course. I think that it is precisely the concern that there might be some confusion and abuse of cursarbeit, that is why we have adopted several amendments across the entire political scenes which were to the original government proposal and which could not be read in the first or second variant, and that is why I would very much appreciate because these were things that were once pre-negotiated with the social partners, if even these parameters, which would then show the functionality of the cursarbeit, whether it will be in variant one or two, then they would actually be actually interpreted, and then they could definitely be functional and certainly not work for some short period, but for a period of many years, as it is in a German way, although I have a number of different comments to the German Kursarbeit, which we can then possibly discuss. Thank you for your attention, and once again, I would like to appreciate the fact that the Minister has managed to do so in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u11	So now I'd give the floor to Mrs Olza Richterová, although I see I have priority rights here, because I accidentally skipped you as there were x applications at once, so I missed you. Then with priority rights - Well, I skipped the lady's office because there was a mix-up with the applications. [[Objection off the microphone.]] Okay. Before the technical notes came up, the MP had already signed up. You're giving space, okay. With the technical first Mr Roman Onderka, then Mr Roman Sklenák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm just technically speaking to the Chamber of Deputies. It must be borne in mind that the Chamber of Deputies is not a European Parliament, where it is negotiated at other meetings, which then formally approved by Members of the European Parliament. Each of us has a certain background in the region, but without a doubt the main service is in the Chamber of Deputies. And I think it is important that the Members of Parliament be here, that the citizens also see them in this Parliament, because it is also some picture for them that some - I hope there will be many - light at the end of the tunnel. The only thing I would recommend that we reconsider our actions in half, because, of course, the more of us there will be, the more of them will be infected, and the more they will be threatened by the functioning of the Honorable House. It's just a request to you, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u13	Now, therefore, with the factual remark of Mr Roman Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I apologize for insisting that I get a word with a point of fact, although, of course, otherwise I would have preferred my colleague Richterová. But I volunteered in response to Mrs Pastuchová's words. I have to stand up here for the Minister and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, because the state of the negotiations and the designs we have here is also the result of the whole long discussion at different levels. When you look at the eKLEP, when you look at the materials submitted by the Ministry, they are not the same ones that then left the government, and so did the amendments that arose in the House of Deputies, and they responded to some situation, so we should put it in context. I think that from the workshop of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, both the original proposal and the amendment that I have tabled here, are proposals for which one can stand. I stand by them, and I think the Minister is, too. So please, let's look at this in this context. [[12.20 hours]] And the other thing. I also agree with what she said in view of the pandemic situation and the Chamber of Deputies. Look, I don't know how many of you are using the eRouse app. I got three high-risk contacts today. I hear some of you have five high-risk contacts. It's all just from this hall. I think the situation is really very serious, and we can't make it easy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u15	Now with another de facto Member, Mr Marek Benda, and Mrs Olga Richterová is ready. Then we'd allow you to get out. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I originally wanted to respond to the Minister who came here to advise us that we should dissolve Parliament. Then when her colleague Sklenák went to stand up for her, I really couldn't take it anymore. The idea of a government minister who has brought the country into this situation, who is still coming to advise us to dissolve parliament, because we can do everything remotely, as this government rules, seems to me to be absolutely incredible. Please don't say that. Don't say that. 132 days of emergency and we're in the situation we're in today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u17	Now, then, Mrs Olga Richterová. You volunteered in front of the KSČM club president, although he has priority rights, but I missed you, so we will, of course, give you gentlemen's room as a woman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. As is the case in this House, two have become one point of debate. So I will first comment on the House's meeting. We proposed an online meeting for the pirát, we proposed a specific resolution. What has succeeded -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u19	Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u20	What has succeeded was a meeting of committees, so that the House Committees are now acting remotely and at the same time publicly, they are open to the public. Thanks to the chancellor and the House's office, we've managed to get antigen tests here. So we go to pirát and STAN voluntarily for antigen testing. I think that's how many others go. At the same time, I remind you again that we have already proposed this online meeting. Unfortunately, a group was not set up, a commission in which it would be close to realization. And now on the point that we are discussing, the amendment to the Employment Act, which will return to second reading. So very briefly. Our position is that the amendment is of course important. We've been actively involved, we've been involved with a whole team of experts. But unfortunately, the complex amendment tabled here by two coalition MPs is certainly not, as Mr Juříček says, better. Unfortunately, it has quite significant defects for employees. I would like to say that it is very unfortunate to say that at such a meeting where there should have been an agreement and agreement, it highlights one of the advantages or disadvantages, and we, as opposition Members who are seeking constructive solutions, must say: unfortunately, it is your disagreement and you have to deal with each other. We are most helpful, giving concrete constructive comments, and waiting for you to agree and we will be able to declare a reasonable law on cursarbeit in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u21	Mr. Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Club, is now with priority right and then Mr. Vlastimil Válek is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, as far as the present point is concerned, here too, in this debate, we have seen that both parties are more likely to bury themselves in positions in the quotation marks of the dispute. And at this point, I would like to call on both the party that claims that their proposal is the best, and the other party that rightly opposes that their proposal also has the right to life, so that they can agree on time. So that it doesn't turn out to be a cursarbeit when it's not necessary, or when the people he was supposed to help will be so bad that even if he was a cursarbeit of gold, he won't pull them out of the mud. So I'd like to call for a quick, reasonable agreement. Everyone has to retreat, everyone has to look for a compromise, and I intercede for individual tripartite members to seek consensus rather than disagreement. So that it doesn't end up in some resistance to one single link in the chain. If this is really going to work for people, this is the process that could contribute to this. The other thing. We recently agreed to return from the beginning of March to the full format of the Chamber of Deputies. I'd put in a good word for us to be - at least for the time those numbers really thicken - that we could actually be in that half-format. In any case, I would not agree with the fact that, without proper legal documentation, without amending the Rules of Procedure, we have been acting in the Chamber of Deputies plenary at a distance or in some other way, because what Mr Benda and some others have been talking about is that these things are for discussion right here, which I think, even in half the format, it has its big question marks. But if there's anything else we need to modify, maybe we should postpone the return to the full profile for a while. If we were to act electronically or remotely or remotely or in any other way, the amendment of the Rules of Procedure would be necessary for this. But we should discuss this here before. In this context, I want to thank those who allow us here under these difficult, difficult conditions so that we can discuss our matters with dignity. These are the employees - this is the medical service, it is the security and all who ensure the operation of the Chamber of Deputies. So I join in with what has been said here that the Chamber of Deputies, its leadership and its Office are handling its work. I thank her for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u23	Mr Vlastimil Válek will now appear. It's the last application so far. I don't see anyone else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I think that some disputes are pointless and not entirely happy, and I'm gonna be very happy if there's a deal after that return and we get a law that we're gonna have to vote for. I'm always very uncomfortable when ladies fight because it's hard to lean on one of those sides. That's why I wanted to talk about something completely different. For one thing, I join the previous speakers, and I also think that the House staff and management and, in general, everyone who meets them is doing an amazing job, and I don't think it's necessary to criticize it in any way. And I have a question to finish with some positive message for us and the citizens. Through the President, Mr Sklenák here said an interesting thing that he has two positive contacts in eRouška or three. And now I don't know exactly what the right procedure is. Because here we have Minister Vojtěch, the former minister for whom erouška was created, and he certainly knows what is the right procedure when information appears in erouška that I have positive contact. We have a number of experts here, so I'd like very much to know if any of the people who know this, or possibly from the House leadership, told us - and so will the citizens - what is the right procedure when I have three positive contacts in eRouška, what should I do. I wouldn't want it to make the citizens feel like the right move is to start working halfway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-001-001.u25	Now, I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else is checking in. I don't see anyone. So if no one else is reporting, I am done with the debate and we are going to vote. I shall call the Members to the Chamber. [[Gong.]] We have here the proposal by Mr Jan Chvojka to repeat the second reading of this bill. I'll get back on track. [[Gong.]] I think we're in sufficient numbers here. [[Checkout request.]] Checkout? So I'm ending the vote. I'll check you out. It would be good to knock that check-out before I start the vote, but okay. Log in again with your voting cards. We can vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is to repeat the second reading, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 94 Members registered, for 94, against none. The motion was accepted. We have therefore discussed the approved programme of the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending.
