ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u1	1. Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher, Lukáš Kolářík, Marek Výborný, Jan Hrnčíř, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Dominik Feri and Jan Farský for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 38/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended, and Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the impact of the SARS CoV-2 epidemic on persons involved in legal proceedings, victims of criminal offences and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and civil order, as amended /seminal press 1174/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1174/1. I prosit that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, my fellow Members, I would like to ask for the support of this bill not only for myself, but also for the representatives of other political parties who supported it - the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, SPD, YES, STAN, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and Pirates. This bill contains three things: on the one hand, a delay or a ban on mobile executions until 30. 6. the possibility of releasing one to four times the minimum life, which is once the minimum wage or minimum pension, if you want, in quotation marks, also up to 30. 6. and a shift in the effectiveness of the start of protected accounts so as to create sufficient room for all IT conditions for banks and for consumer-oriented conditions where banks have an obligation to communicate changes in account terms two months in advance. Thank you in advance for your kind consideration and support of this bill proposal at first reading. I think it's a useful thing myself. All these three matters are related to the covid situation. I believe, colleagues and colleagues, that we will find a match in the evening. Thank you for yourself and for the other translators.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u4	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. I'll be very brief. Everything was more or less said by the petitioner. I would merely add that the Government has expressed a positive opinion on the proposal. And I'll also ask you for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u5	Please don't yell at each other. I am opening a general debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of Mr Excellent with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u6	Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give a brief statement to the KDU-ČSL MEP. I can't sigh to begin with, because we didn't have to be in this situation at all. Now we're kind of pulling hot potatoes out of the fire at the last minute. The question is whether it can even be done, or how it will remain in the meantime between the first of April and sometimes when the law is signed by the President. Let me just remind you, it's useless to cry over spilled milk now. But when we discussed the protected account here in the House at the third reading, I tabled an amendment here, which was also discussed in detail with the Czech Banking Association, but also with organisations that help debtors, and which would address the situation in such a way that we would not get into the problem today, and from 1. 4., not until 1. 7. a protected account could have worked. Unfortunately, it hasn't been answered. Just like the House, we have not been able to reflect the same, please, a hundred percent opinion of the Senate, when this House press is returned to us with this: The House, accept an option that will be functional, on which banks can prove from 1. 4. react so that a protected account - because that is the goal on which we agreed here, if I am not mistaken, 100%, we all voted in favour - could have been functional. Well, now we're dealing with exactly what I've been pointing out. I'm sorry. Maybe it's a lesson for next time so we can eliminate this. Now there is really nothing else to do, which is why I, together with Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher and others, have signed this proposal, only to respond in this way so that we can really implement the key and important institute of the protected account so that all interested organisations, including banks, can actually offer this service to their clients so that we can actually protect it in an unforgettable way. So that's one point to the introduction that's key to this novel. [[18.40 hours]] Then, in some small things, it acts like Lex COVID - Justice III. And here, let me make one comment on why, and I agree, we propose a delay or put a moratorium on the mobility execution by the end of June of this year. The Justice Department, the Secretary of State said it personally, says the Executive Chamber: it's useless, there's no need, we agreed to behave like this, now there's no reason to carry out those mobiliar executions. And I'm getting information directly from the field, so unfortunately it's not happening. I'm not saying that this doesn't happen in a hundred percent of the cases of executor authorities, but at least some large ones, and one large resident in Central Moravia is, unfortunately, absolutely clear evidence of it, so it just doesn't. I could be here right now, and I don't want to hold you back, quoting a long story a few days ago: Family, middle class tourism business. Of course, they were hit hard by government measures last year, in 2020. The family had to completely interrupt their business. Of course, the revenue from the decisions of the government and the covid was zero, the expenditure remained because the energy had to be paid, and so on. The family got into trouble because they were unable to fulfill all their obligations. Of course, there was some sort of moratorium. The moment the moratorium on repayment ended, the family got into trouble, because there was no break after that. CEZ and all other institutions responded very quickly, and in the event that it was not repaid, it simply ended up with the executive office in question. And now the sequel, and it's important why I think what we're putting out there is truly justified. In February this year, a payment schedule was agreed with the Executive Authority, payments were sent, a quarter of the entire loan was sent, and the family in question was assured by phone that everything was okay and other payments were expected by the end of March and the bailiffs would not visit the household to perform the Mobiliar execution. However, despite this agreement and the fact that a quarter has been paid up, there was an agreed payment schedule here, a few days ago out of nowhere on the weekend of Saturday morning, a nice bailiff of this office rang - who, by the way, is sending us all letters about what poor people are and that they can't do anything and that they have their business impaired and that we will now extend it to them until June - so precisely this office rang there on Saturday with the fact that it is possible to execute a Mobiliar execution if the amount of CZK 50,000 is not immediately recovered. And now I can go on. It was when Mommy from the family was in the hospital -- it's just things where reason stops picking things up. From my point of view, it's the height of arrogance in a situation where then we get the letters we get. So for me, I'm not going to go into any further details, I'm sorry, because, of course, there are a few executives who act like I can't find a decent word for it, then cast a bad shadow on all the others who don't. But unfortunately, we as Members are not going to do anything about it. So if we're proposing this moratorium right now, I think it's okay, it's even June, and it's not possible to close your eyes in any way. The last point concerns the minimum, or the four times that appears in the proposal. Here I have to say, I'm a little disappointed with the petitioner, co-worker, because the deal was originally different. [[To Mrs. Valacho's.]] We should really be moving in the intensities of a protected account. How much is in the contents of the protected account, through Mr President? In theory, it would be double, but it would be fair to have it tripled. My colleague Valachová wrote it four times. I do not consider it serious, but most of the rest is so important that I would approve and support it for that temporary period. My colleague Nacher is laughing at me because we see it the same way. Thank you for your attention and thank you for supporting this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Mr Jan Hrnčíř will make a point of fact. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond here to the words of the previous speaker. Yes, it is. At the end of the moratorium on mobile execution, some executors and executors literally began looting the households. And we all know the situation that we're in, that a lot of those households have gotten into trouble not because of their incompetence or lavishness, but that the economy has to a large extent been affected. There are those bans that are here, so these people really got into this state, not by their own actions. And some executors aren't really able to respect that, and the moment the moratorium ended at the end of February, they actually invaded the homes and started literally looting there. It is a response - and, in my opinion, a little late, but thank God for it - to this situation, and that is why we are discussing the law here today in Section 90, and as co-president, I would like to ask you to really support it with your vote today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u10	I'm just in response to my colleague Hrnčíř through you. Thank you for that. But it is necessary, colleagues and colleagues, to remember this, and when we are here in 14 days on 14 April at the third reading to discuss the amendment to the Enforcement Order, the SEC, that is to remember at the point where we will vote on the humanization of the Mobilary Enforcements. Then we'll talk about what it means, but that's gonna be the thing that's gonna happen after July 1st. Now we're talking about a transitional period until the end of June. In the future, I firmly hope that the proposal that we have drawn up here across the House, which also affects this problem, will be able to get through the third reading into the final version of the amendment to the Enforcement Order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda will speak in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u12	Mr Vice-President, draftsman, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am officially excused today, but I have only returned to the House for this bill, because I have not seen such a clown shop since we have been here by the plaintiff's side in the House for a long time. Do you really think that the Valdštejn Palace and the Prague Castle will not laugh when it falls behind their stomachs when we send them a bill on Monday to start paying from April 1st? Indeed, someone really thinks - and I warn you that there is a government position, a law to have the desired effect of repairing the damage caused by the plaintiff by her furious enforcement of the protected account, regardless of the views of part of this House, the Senate, everyone else: I am right, and I will assert the truth because I have a majority here. And now we are very surprised that the majority can provide the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, but surprisingly they will not ensure that it can work in the bank, and surprisingly we find that it will not work in the bank and that there will be no protected accounts, so it comes up with a proposal that says: we will put down efficiency from 1 April to 1 July. And we're discussing this proposal when? March 24th. We don't have a second chamber here. We don't have a president of the Republic. Should they not comment on this, too? What happens when the President of the Republic signs the bill on 15 April, or on 30 April, signs a bill that says: the law that took effect on 1 April takes effect on 1 July? Can someone tell me what's going on? Did the law pay that month, or didn't he pay, or would he stop paying, or would he start paying again, or would the citizens really feel like we were making fun of them? I don't question the other parts, even though I consider them questionable, but this? It's just that if the thing that's already happened is that somebody here has put in force a poorly written protected account, then the government is supposed to come, bring it in a state of legislative emergency and kneel before the Senate to discuss it, and not that we're making fools of ourselves here. I can't raise my hand for this, because I really don't believe it's possible until April 1st, and I really don't know what's going to happen on April 10th, April 15th, when the law comes into effect, which says the effectiveness of another law that has already begun to apply is being shifted. I feel like we're really making fun of these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm sorry. Mr. Patrik Nacher has applied, so please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I'm not gonna stretch it out. I have to say in response now to my colleague Benda. Of course, I'm terribly sorry. We tried the legislative emergency. Supposedly, this thing doesn't belong there. Even the things we assigned there, because it's primarily because of the shift in efficiency in a protected account, so they have some elemental continuity, even if it doesn't have to do with it, but the elemental continuity is there. The moratorium on the 30th. 6., I'm not going to elaborate anymore, he talked about it Marek Výborný, that for those bailiffs who aren't doing it today, that's no change, those who are doing it, so basically they're breaking the unwritten agreement between the Ministry and the Executive Chamber, so there I think there should be no problem, notabene, we're really going to talk about two variants and two versions of humanization of the mobile executions, so we're going to go back to that. I have to say, I'm sorry that we got into this phase, because a generally protected account is a useful tool. I would assign it to the way we all voted for the end of child executions and child debt. We've waited here for ten years for this protected account, and unfortunately we've probably been a victim of our own activity and speed, when we wanted to speed it up to be as fast as possible, that's why it was April 1st, but as it reached out for the fall, of course, covido laws, extraordinary meetings, refund from the Senate, etc., so it reached the point that it didn't actually occur until the beginning of February. So the feedback from the banking environment is that they're not going to make it, and I think the worst option is if there was a useful tool, which, in practice, isn't really going to be able to turn into this tool. So I'm saying I'm sorry myself, because the security account itself was supposed to be here ten years ago. It's a good thing he's here, but, of course, the industry, those banks have to be able to set up processes so that it actually works. That means I'm gonna ask for your support. And as I'm saying, it's all awkward, especially twice when we're talking about something to help these people. And beware, not only to debtors, but to a protected account, as we said, it also helps creditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. It is the last one entered into the general debate so far. [[Mr Kolářík comes to the microphone, but he is retreating from MP Chvojk.]] Mr Chvojka wanted priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. But I didn't do anything wrong, my colleague Kolářík will agree, because we have 7:00 p.m. and I don't know if anyone else will come forward, but the meeting day is until 7:00 p.m. I therefore, in order to discuss this press today and to approve, on behalf of the two members of Parliament, the ANO movement and, in particular, the CSSD movement, so that the Chamber of Deputies may act and vote on this press in a temporary manner today after 19 o'clock, until 21 o'clock, I believe we can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. This proposal is procedural, and I will vote on it immediately. I have called the Members to the Chamber, and I have begun voting on this point so that we can also vote on it after 19 o'clock. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 3, 82 Members signed in, 83 Members signed in, 72 against 1, 10 abstained. The motion was accepted. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. And the MP has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll be very quick. To a protected account. I said it here, too, during the debate, when we approved. I really stand by the fact that the option we finally approved is better of the two that were on the table. It was expected to cause some problems. I think that everything could be done if the banks hadn't used half that time to contradict those things in the law and had to have some discussion with the Czech National Bank, if they hadn't wasted that time, they would have made it. According to my information, the technical solution is ready, only the product is being designed, so it certainly doesn't have any technical problems. As for the mobile executions and their postponements, of course I don't think there's any point in discussing this at all, because if we forbid people to move outside the cadasters and everything is actually stopped and we control every move, then the mobile executions are going on - that doesn't make sense for God's sake. So we as pirát definitely support it, and that's why I'm signed under the proposal, and we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-24-ps2017-092-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. No one else is logged in electronically or from the scene. I look around, I look around, I see no one. I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Not interested. No objection has been lodged, so we will decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1174 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 85 Members registered, for 77, versus 6. The motion has been approved. So, at this point, I am launching a detailed debate that I do not have Members registered to, either electronically or from the point of view. I'm ending the debate in detail. And we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Kateřina Valachová, Patrik Nacher, Lukáš Kolářík, Marek Výborný, Jan Hrnčíř, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Dominik Feri and Jan Farský to issue a law amending Act No. 38/2021 Coll., amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended, and Act No. 191/2020 Coll., on certain measures to mitigate the effects of SARS-CoV-2 Coronavirus on persons involved in judicial proceedings, victims of crimes and legal persons, and on the amendment of insolvency law and the Code of Civil Procedure, as amended, House Press 1174.' [[Conditions of execution]] I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 5, 87 Members signed in for 78, versus 6, abstained from 3. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. I thank the rapporteur and the petitioner. [[Mrs Valacha thanks everyone.]] We have discussed the scheduled programme of the 92nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I hereby conclude. We'll continue tomorrow morning at 9 o'clock with answers to the written interpelations in the 87th meeting. Have a good evening.
