ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u1	55. Government bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws (the Higher Education Act), as amended (the House Press 988/ - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 This printing was designed to give consent to it in the first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2. I see the Minister is present. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Robert Plaga, on behalf of the government, to state this law. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present the Government's amendment to Act No. 111/1998 Coll. on Higher Education, which has been sent to you as House press No. 988. It is in this case, most of the university law is not designed that way, its change, but this time it is a simple proposal. Only Annex 1 and Annex 2 to the Higher Education Act, where the name of two public and one public higher education institutions is changed, are amended. This is done in accordance with § 5 para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 1 of the Higher Education Act, where it is specified that the name of a public or public higher education institution, respectively, provides for a law. If there were any other way to do this than change the law, I would certainly do it, but I can't. The complaint to change names did not come from the Ministry of Education, but came from the public universities concerned and their municipalities wishing to modify the names, respectively, if we are talking about the one state university, the complaint came from the Ministry of Defence. Thus, three changes that lie ahead of you: University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences Brno changes its name to University of Veterinary Brno. Since 1 July 2020, the Faculty of Pharmacy has been transferred to Masaryk University and VFU, i.e. the University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences will no longer carry out education in other than veterinary fields. It is therefore necessary to make an urgent change to a name which is currently misleading. For the other two universities, the seat is removed from the name. It is Janáček's Academy of Performing Arts in Brno, which changes the name to Janáček's Academy of Performing Arts. And then the state section, the University of Defence in Brno, changes the name to the University of Defence. In both cases, so that you don't think it's a novelty, there is a return to the older form of the name. In the case of the University of Defence, it can also be pointed out that one of the three faculties and one institute is located elsewhere than in Brno. Finally, allow me to comply with § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, asked that consent be given to the bill in the first reading. This is mainly due to the fact that the law still in force reflects the state of the state of the public university of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences Brno, which ended in the middle of last year. It is therefore appropriate that an official change in the name of this school should take place as soon as possible in order to avoid misinformation to the public as regards the subject of the training provided. We will certainly find another regulation of the higher education law for the debates on the amendment of the higher education law. So please support under § 90 para. 2 and I believe that this is a problem-free proposal that will receive your support. Thank you for your attention and support for my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u4	Hello, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because this college law really is absolutely simple and completely smooth and basically everything important is summed up by the Minister here. I would shorten it as a Brňan-Knowledge to the fact that I stand behind everything that has been said here, I agree, I support it, and if there are no further questions, I will go to the rapporteur's table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u5	Thank you. I am opening the debate to which Mr Vácha is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it's that simple, and I'll explain why. At some time, in the Czech Republic, the political representation agreed that in the name of each university except Charles University and Masaryk University, the headquarters of the university would be. To this day, before we proceed to the vote, that will be the case. All our public and public universities have their registered office in their name except for Charles University and Masaryk University. The University of Veterinary and Pharmaceutical Sciences in Brno cancels the Faculty of Pharmacy and remains the University of Veterinary Sciences in Brno, however Janáček Academy of Performing Arts in Brno will change to Janáček Academy of Performing Arts. However, the Academy of Performing Arts in Prague remains the Academy of Performing Arts. Similarly, the University of Defence in Brno will change to the University of Defence, but the Police Academy in Prague will remain a Police Academy. Of course, I respect the self-governing will of universities, and if they decide not to have their seat in their name, they probably don't want it there. But it would probably be good to think about some, at least at the state universities, that the Police Academy, for example, would be the Police Academy and had no name in Prague, because the University of Defence will only be the University of Defence. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister, and this is just a short question and perhaps a short answer, if the state's policy is currently such that universities can decide their name and their headquarters as they like, that is, within the self-government of academic chambers. Because now we're going to break through what political agreement was on so that all universities have their headquarters in their name. So I'd like that answer, please. I know you'll answer for yourself. Any other, other political representation may have a different opinion, but at least so that we have the answer now, at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u7	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister is claiming his word. Please, you got him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u8	Thank you for the floor. The answer is very simple. Yes, I think it's a good practice for us to have autonomy from universities and their senators to agree on that name, so that policy really is that, of course, to allow the university to change its name as part of the law. In the case of vet, it is undisputable, in the case of the launch of the site we have different variants that is the University of Pardubice, Ostrava University, but in some way it is intended there. I used to name the reasons. The correct answer is that I think it's right that a university within its own self-government can make decisions about this. And it's fair to say that it's about public universities, that's where the politics is clear. As far as the state's concerned, the University of Defense is concerned, if the law passes, it will do the adjustment. As far as the Police Academy - as on call comes the Minister of the Interior - there, of course, is not only about the University but also about the Ministry. In this case, the DOD has asked us to do so. If the Ministry of Education is asked by the Ministry of the Interior to modify the name, it will also do so. This means: it is not that the Ministry of Education dictates what universities are called, and the law in this is and the practice, I firmly hope, will be preserved regardless of the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-023-055.u9	Thank you. If no one else is reporting from the scene, I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. There's no interest in final words. There was no objection. So now we're going to decide by 90... I am ending the general debate. I don't know if I said that. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 988 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 224, 87 Members voted in favour of 65, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. It has been decided to continue the negotiations, so I am initiating a detailed debate in which I have no one to report to. I'll see if anyone's checking in from the scene. It doesn't, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? [[No.]] So we're going to proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'll get back on track. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 111/1998 Coll., on Higher Education Institutions and on the amendment and addition of other laws, as amended, according to House press 988. [[Higher education law]] I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 225 registered 89 Members and Members, for 70, there was no one against. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. The negotiations are adjourned. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. At this point, we're going to discuss another point, and that's
