ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u1	1. Motion to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic The programme shall not be put to the vote. The group of 64 Members exercised its right and pursuant to Section 84 of Law No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, submitted a motion for distrust to the Government. I will ask that the first person to take the floor is the authorised representatives of the plaintiffs, and this is Vice-President Petr Fiala. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for Czech democracy. The Chamber of Deputies will vote here on whether the Government of Andrej Babiš has the confidence of the Chamber of Deputies. And that's not some ordinary vote. This is a test of this - and an important test - it is a test of whether the government still represents the majority of voters who cast their vote in 2017 in elections. It is therefore a test of whether this government, the government of Andrej Babiš, has a legitimate right to continue to rule. When I say that this is an important day for Czech democracy, I also have to say that it is to some extent also a sad day from the point of view that the vote we are facing today must have provoked parliamentary opposition. In any good democratic state that respects the principles of parliamentary democracy, and the Czech Republic is a parliamentary democracy, the Prime Minister himself would call for this vote. And he would have summoned him the moment he found out that one of the coalition partners had given him his support. And that's what happened. The Communists announced many weeks ago that they did not support the government of Andrej Babiš. And let us remember, this government relied on support, on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, which consists of the movement YES, the ČSSD and also the KSČM. When the Communists said quite clearly that they did not support the government, that the government had lost their support, it would be logical for the Prime Minister to come to the Chamber of Deputies and ask for confidence because we cannot have a government in parliamentary democracy that does not lean on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. But Prime Minister Babiš acts as if nothing had happened and even talks about destabilization in connection with distrust. But that's really very, very wrong, because democracy and its rules, its principles, it's not destabilization. Democracy is the fundamental principle of the functioning of our state and its rules and its principles must be respected. That's why we're here today, ladies and gentlemen. We are not only here to verify whether the Communists are telling the truth - that is, of course, one of the reasons - whether they support or do not support the government of Andrej Babiš. That's what's gonna happen today. But we are mainly here to find out what the true will of you, two hundred representatives of Czech citizens, is about this government. Whether the government relies on the majority or not. We, the parliamentary opposition, in this case made up of five democratic political parties, believe that the government of Andrej Babiš is to end. And not just because she lost the trust of the communists. No doubt he has the confidence of social democracy; the Social Democrats support the government unconditionally; they are part of it. And if she has lost the trust of the Communists, that will be shown in today's vote. But that's not the only reason we think the government of Andrej Babiš is going to end. There are many reasons for distrust that we have, and more and more are increasing every day. We have compiled 40 specific reasons for believing that the government should be distrusted within the SPOL coalition. I'm not gonna name or read all the 40 reasons here right now, they're available on our website. But most importantly, my colleagues, my colleagues from the COO coalition, Madam Members, Members of the COO coalition, will talk about them in their specific speeches, where they will show their specializations, their expertise, in individual areas where the government of Andrej Babiš is failing and why it does not deserve our trust. I have chosen 8 here for the 40, 8 serious reasons for which the government should end, and I beg you to think about each of the eight reasons. [[9.10 hours]] The reason for the first is the most important, and that is human health and human lives. In the past year, 30,000 of our fellow citizens have died. This puts the Czech Republic in a disastrous position in the ranking of countries that have handled the pandemic worst. The cabinet has failed in this way in many ways. You could say he failed at practically everything. In time he did not provide protective equipment, did not provide enough quality tests or enough vaccines. Instead, there was a carousel of some weird business, business, where individual ministries paid for one respirator and hundreds of crowns, and billions were thrown out of the window. And it's still unclear who they ended up with. I don't think I'm the only one who'd like to know, and I'm convinced that one day this will all be investigated and clarified. Do you remember, ladies and gentlemen, how the Minister of Health Vojtěch stood at this point today a assured us that medical aids are sufficient that coronavirus is not such a serious thing that pandemics are not actually at risk and so on? Nine months ago, Minister Vojtěch had to resign. And now he's back after an incredible personnel carousel, when three other people took turns in his chair, in a chair absolutely crucial and crucial for managing the pandemic and for the health of our people. Three people. Roman Prymula, who soon appeared as a papalas, Jan Blatný, was driven out after refusing to inoculate Czech residents with an unapproved Russian vaccine Sputnik, and Petr Arenberger, he lost himself in a huge conflict of interest. This list, ladies and gentlemen, this list alone would be sufficient for the government to fall. In every democratic country, after such a staffing ceremony, after such unsuccessful nominations, the government would fall after this irresponsible policy. And that, unfortunately, is just the beginning of my arguments about why this government does not deserve our trust. Our second essential subject to this government is her contempt for the law and laws of the Czech Republic. Czech courts repeatedly, and this is important, not once, not that it is some mistake, repeatedly sweeping off the table, dropping the regulations and measures that this government has issued in connection with the pandemic and, unfortunately, continues to issue. Again, it's not a coincidence, one neglect, one confusion. It is a principle, it is repeated contempt of the law and laws of the Czech Republic. Let us remember the unconstitutional emergency situation, remember the repealed regulations on wearing respirators or the cancelled obligation to test employees for covid. Let us also recall the various completely comical measures that people made fun of, such as coffee in a paper bag, a ban on singing or opening discos without the possibility of dancing. These are all smiling examples that I could name a whole series here, you all know them. But there are really very, very serious things going on here. All of this together - disrespecting the law, issuing strange regulations that no one understands - all this has created over a year-long chaos. A chaos that few people know, maybe no one knows it at all. Citizens aren't surprised, they don't believe in their eyes, they don't know what to do, what to do, what doesn't pay, so let's not be surprised that in many cases the will to respect government's current measures, that the will is almost at zero. And it is this government dilettantism, which I have described very briefly here, that leads us to the third reason why the government should not continue, and that is discrimination against the entire business sectors in our country. Yes, I mean mostly small shops, the service sector, but of course not just them. Since the beginning of the pandemic, entrepreneurs have to deal not only with the direct impact of the pandemic and those measures, but also with the chaotic, inconspicuous and inadequate support programmes declared by the government of Andrej Babiš, which did not really help entrepreneurs in many ways. The government's insistence on a number of illogical measures against trades and services raised in many people a legitimate logical question as to whether the liquidation of business sectors, some business sectors, was ultimately not the right intention. Especially when billions of aids - billions of aids - proved to have flowed smoothly into companies and industries where government members or their relatives are doing business. Yes, what I'm talking about is a conflict of interest. And the conflict of interest between the Prime Minister and his co-workers in the government, that's the fourth reason why this government should end. And that's why we've been pointing out for many years, and there's been another argument and another argument every moment. In April, the European Commission definitively confirmed that Andrej Babiš is breaking the law because he continues to control Agrofert, who is pumping our common European money. In May, this European disgrace to the Czech Republic was discussed by the European Parliament, and a few days ago, it was even discovered that Andrej Babiš was one of the largest recipients of public money throughout the European Union. Meanwhile, the media discovered a diary of the Prime Minister's right hand so that we could learn from him that, in addition to subsidies, the ANO people were able to trade a number of other government decisions and orders. Ladies and gentlemen, this isn't some common clientelistic case that we know a lot of from other democratic countries. This means, among other things, a personal clash between the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and the European Union. A personal confrontation that can also end with our country losing subsidies, tens and hundreds of billions of crowns, and that it affects every citizen's wallet. And I ask: can we afford this? Can we afford something like that? Unfortunately, these personal interests, the personal problems of Prime Minister Babiš, have been fully reflected in another, fifth reason we have for the end of this government, and this is the solution to the terrorist assassination carried out by Russian agents in Vrbětice. European leaders repeatedly paused over the Czech Government's approach and especially the Prime Minister, who failed to coordinate the joint response of our allies from the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance in time. We can only argue what was the real reason for such incompetence, such a procedure. And didn't the Prime Minister's long personal conflict play a part in that? Or did Jan Hamáček's first Deputy Prime Minister play a major role in this? Yes, Jan Hamáček has still failed to explain the circumstances of his planned trip to Moscow at a time when he was already evidently aware of the Russian terrorist attack on Czech territory. The opposition therefore repeatedly called for his resignation. He disobeyed, did not hear this challenge, so today's vote on trust is also a vote on the willow attack and on the role of Jan Hamáček. [[9.20 hours]] The sixth reason for voting on distrust of the government is a scandalous approach to solving the poisoning of the Bečva River. It has already been eight months, ladies and gentlemen, when we are watching a striking inability to investigate one of the largest environmental accidents in the history of the Czech Republic. And now I'm not speculating whether it's dilettantism or trying to sweep the case under the carpet, but what we all see and what disturbs citizens is clear. This investigation is incredibly tight and there's doubt that it's being conducted professionally. Ladies and gentlemen, do you really believe this government? Do you believe that her institutions are acting impartially and objectively in this case? So all of these failures have one common denominator in addition to the government of Andrej Babiš, and that is the cost of the state budget, or the cost of the state budget. And that's our seventh reason. It must be said very loudly that this government is indebting our country to an extent unprecedented in the modern history of the Czech Republic. And it can't be credited to the pandemic. No way. That's what the Treasury is trying unsuccessfully to do. At least half of what the Czech State paid extra in 2020 is not related to Coronavirus. And it can also be read from the numbers that the Treasury itself translates. It's a waste, it's a failure to handle the situation, it's pre-election gifts from the YES movement, social democracy, but it's all things that we're gonna have to pay out of our common pocket someday. And let us be frank that even the very account of the Czech Republic for the pandemic would be much lower if we were ruled by responsible politicians if there were experts in the relevant places, and not if irresponsible populists were running this place. In such a case, we would not have to pay overpriced respirators, dysfunctional tests, unnecessarily purchased Chinese needles, but even billions of compensation to entrepreneurs for legal confusion caused by the incompetent approach of individual ministers. And in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, eighth, lastly, I kept the eighth reason, that is a subject that I personally consider to be one of the most serious. It's a dangerous gamble with the future of our children. Too long a closed school, extraordinarily slow return of children to standard teaching, all this is an inexcusable failure. The children came to the brink of the interests of the government of Andrej Babiš. So have the viewers of sports matches been given greater attention by the government than the children who are now preparing for future life. Unfortunately, the current results of the primary and the results of the pupils from the vocational schools point to a large, albeit somewhat hidden problem with which the Czech families will have to face at least another ten years. I add that this is a problem which, to this extent, may not have occurred, as shown by practice from other European countries, where they were able to maintain school attendance even during the pandemic and dealt with this matter much better than the Czech government. Ladies and gentlemen, the sooner this is all over, the better. I have presented to you eight reasons, eight main reasons why we think this government must end in the coalition. It is not, as I said, of course all the reasons and it is up to you to consider them carefully. Trust means a willingness to rely on others, to rely on others, and to trust them with your future. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that each and every one of you answer these questions honestly and then decide how to vote: am I counting on this government? Do I trust this government? Can I trust this government with my future, my children and the citizens of this country? The answer of the Members and Members of the Association Coalition is clear, and the answer is: No!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. I'll read some more apologies quickly. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes until 11:30 today for medical reasons. Mr Lubomír Volný apologizes today from 9.00 to 12.00 for work reasons. Mr Petr Dolínek apologizes today for work reasons. And Mr Jan Richter apologizes today between 9.00 and 11.00 for work reasons. I now have several applications with priority rights before the debate is opened, and I give the floor to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, President Ivan Bartoš will be prepared. I will just repeat, we are not in the debate, there are no factual points. At this point, I have eight priority rights here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u4	Hello, everyone. Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, we are here to vote on the mistrust of the government, this time four months before the elections. They say you want to express distrust, for example, because we don't have a majority. KSČM, Mr. Chairman, has never been our coalition partner. It allowed the emergence of this successful government. And we've been a minority government since December 2017. And we have heard those arguments for distrust, and I will try to express myself on individual arguments. One argument is a dubious, dedicated report by the European Commission's auditors on my alleged conflict of interest. And what about the conflict of interest? You didn't believe that I wanted to go into politics to change anything, not to do business with the traditional parties, and when you found out, the bond affair proposed by Mr Kalousek was first faked. The former Prime Minister also voted in favour of this, and on the basis of this fictional case, he kicked me out of the government. And that wasn't enough, so he invented a conflict of interest, Lex Babiš. Absurd business. I've repeated it x times: I have no conflict of interest. You put lex Babiš here against Babiš on a custom basis. You agreed on that, you all voted in favour, against Babiš, because you have to get this Babiš out of politics, he bothers you because he didn't adapt to your habits. I've always followed all the legislation. I don't drive and control Agrofert! And the European Commission has nothing to say about Czech laws! This country cannot be run by the European Parliament. We are a sovereign country! And the Czech Republic will not return any money. I don't know why the President is talking about this. 38 billion returned for you! [[In an elevated voice.]] We paid $38 billion back for all these scams. So it's all nonsense. And I'm surprised you didn't talk about čapí's nest. That's the most important thing for you. Well, I'll tell you again. And I assume your partners will talk about it. A 14-year-old thing! Who added the grant? Well, Mr. Bendl here at the time, he was the captain. Mrs. Langšádlová was sitting there. Even the senator - and they told me to speak politely - was there. Who checked, the grant? Well, the best finance minister twice, Mr. Kalousek checked on her. Five years of purposeful prosecution. The company was entitled to the grant and returned it. And it's still under investigation. The D.A. stopped it once, but the D.A. extended it. We need to prosecute this Babiš. And his family! You're welcome. The subsidy came back. Where are the billions you stole? Take a look at the stork's nest. It's for the public! For the kids! Go check it out. But this Babiš needs to be eliminated. Absurd business to order. And everyone can yell, I don't care. On order. [[9.30 hours]] The Bereta case. Try to load it. So it's two things against Babiš. He needs to be eliminated because he came and didn't steal. He does it for free. He sends all the money he gets to the singles. So on eight points, I'm going to remind you what kind of distrust you're going to say to the government. You want to overthrow a government that has finally enforced dignified pensions. In 2009, the average pension was CZK 10,045 a month. She joined ODS and TOP 09 and the result was that at the end of 2013, the pensioners weighed, was an average pension of CZK 10 962. In four years, you've been able to add a thousand to our seniors. Even the 40 crowns were there. And you didn't give them anything. So compare it to my government. In December 2017, when I became Prime Minister, the average pension was CZK 11 745. 15 351 crowns this March. That was one of our government's promises. We've added an extra thousand to people over 85 years of age. And in December each senior received 5,000 more crowns. Not because of the pandemic. Because of the cost of living. Because our seniors deserve it. And so we have valued pensions by almost a thousand crowns each year. You were so generous, you gave them a thousand dollars in four years. And for 2022, the seniors will receive an extra 758 crowns a month on average. That's in case you don't, God forbid, put together a government to better prepare for the crash. Because I'm sure you'll be the first thing to get them a 75 percent discount on the train and bus fare that I personally pushed. That'll be the first thing you take from them. You want to overthrow a government that radically raised people's salaries. In 2017, we promised teachers that they would take over 45 grand a month on average. And we kept our promise. We evaluate, keep accounts, and keep promises. And we kept that promise. This year, the cantors will take over 46,000 crowns a month. For you, in 2013, the average salary of the cantor was CZK 26,111. We've added almost that much to them once. A program statement isn't a piece of paper for us. We're not the ODS that swoops in before the election that it won't raise taxes, and then does the exact opposite, and with the TOP 09 pushes through a mega fraud called super gross wages. We canceled that one, by the way. The ODS found the courage to join after 12 years of talking about it. Only now, of course, when he's in opposition. By abolishing the supergross wage, we have raised a net wage of 7 percent for all 4.5 million employees in the public, state and private sectors. Then we settled the old debts that were left over from the key professions. Thanks to our government, police officers will be taking 50 530 crowns on average this year. Fire department 51,100 crowns. Soldiers CZK 51,700 a month. The average salary for social services workers will be CZK 35 097 this year and will reach CZK 58 200 for nurses. We've significantly increased our wages to doctors. Thanks to these revenues, the departure of our health professionals and caregivers abroad has been severely reduced. After your government in 2013, nurses received an average of CZK 28 388. Workers of social services 16 827 CZK. We raised their salaries by more than double. You want to overthrow a government that's reduced people's taxes. Yes. I understand that the ODS and TOP 09 colleagues are getting their heads around it. But imagine that even though you're in government, you can lower taxes. You don't know that. All you have to do is ask. Apart from gambling, tobacco, and alcohol, our government has reduced taxes and makes it some 436 billion that have gone back to people and businesses and entrepreneurs and businessmen. I reminded you of a super gross wage. By abolishing it, we reduced the income tax to 15 percent. We also imposed a 15 per cent income tax on businessmen and introduced a monthly flat-rate tax on them so that they would not have to bother with accounting. We also canceled the real estate tax, another ODS invention. She's joined in, too. She found the courage to do it again in opposition. We further reduced taxes where ODS and TOP 09 increased with great taste. Because people had no way of defending themselves. Yes, VAT. For value added tax, we have significantly expanded the reduced rate of 10 percent. To this reduced rate we gradually transferred items such as heat supply, water and sewer, bulk transport, catering services, hairdressers, repairers, home care, soft drink and finally, of course, my favorite draft beer. As compensation to an EET economy. I fought for that for a long time. You want to overthrow a government that has increased the standard of living. We heard again: Babiš has indebted the land, will suffer our children, no one will pay it, we will fail and such nonsense. But I'm sure you don't believe it yourself. GDP per capita. The Czech Republic was ahead of Portugal, Greece, Spain and Italy. When I became Minister of Finance in January 2014, the debt to GDP after your so-called budgetaryly responsible government was 41.1 %. At the end of 2019, we hit him at 29 percent. Yes, and then the pandemic came. But despite that, despite the billions invested in our people and businesses, we are still one of the least indebted countries. Please, people, listen, don't believe this demagogy! We are the fourth least-indebted country in the European Union for 2020. And do you know how much debt was to GDP? 36,9 per cent. This means that last year it was still less and less than the state in which I inherited the spent public finances from you when I came to the government in January 2014. [[9.40 hours]] Just to compare, so our citizens know how we are about debt: Austria has 84 % debt, Germany 71, France 117 and Japan more than 200 percent of GDP. And I'm sure these countries won't fail. Just like we're not gonna fail. And as for the money that made our debt go up, it's not the billion-dollar tunnels that the so-called. your democratic parties have been operating for years. We didn't put the money anywhere. [[Secretary Schiller shows a graph to the hall.]] But we gave it to the people! That is why household savings have increased by CZK 360 billion in the last year as of 30 April 2021! And we've stabilized that debt once before. I started it, Mrs. Schillerová went on. And if we had the opportunity to do that in the next parliamentary term, we can do it again! I'm convinced of that. You want to overthrow a government that thinks of families! Our government increased the parental contribution from 220,000 to 300,000 crowns. And women with multiples for 450,000 crowns. It hasn't increased since 2008. As soon as you found yourself in opposition, you could've snapped to add everything to your ide. But when you ruled, it didn't even occur to you, you did the opposite. The exact opposite of what you promised. For young families that you have been deliberately suffocating for years, we have paid off state loans for housing with interest of 1%, even for buying cooperative shares. Thanks to the Construction project, we untied our hands to municipalities and towns during the construction of social housing. For example, we've canceled the card period for the first three days of the disease, another one of your antisocial inventions. We finally introduced an eneschopenka. We increased home care benefits and added 6,000 to CZK 19,200 a month and severely affected 4,000 a month to CZK 12,800. Another group of people you've been shitting on for years, the respectable opposition. You want to overthrow a government that thinks of consumers! We're the ones who humanized the executions and insolvencys! We're the ones who've dealt with the child's debts! We've raised an unforgivable amount. Even the line from which the entire wage is collided. Thanks to us, due to a debt of less than CZK 100,000, the bailiff can no longer sell a roof over his head like he used to. We've canceled the arbitration clauses, and we've put a stop to the fees for bailiffs and lawyers! Executors should never have been privatized! That's your inheritance, too. That was your fantasy. And we've done other things for regular customers. Maybe we've reduced the transition to another mobile operator to two days, or we've imposed a fine of up to 500,000 for a rewinded speedometer. You want to overthrow the government that's finally investing. Over the last few years, we have invested hundreds of billions in the Czech Republic. Railway Administration, Road Directorate and highways have never had such budgets! We even brought all possible investment projects into the National Investment Plan - yes, that's also my invention and my work. And I'm proud of it! And I have also shown it to the European Commission, here is the plan to invest 20,000 projects for CZK 8,000 billion up to 2050! We built 59.3 km of new motorways and set up another 107.3 km. [[Secretary Schiller is showing a chart.]] We built 66.8 km of first-class roads and another 74.3 km is built. You built the highways so zero zero nothing. On the contrary, you stopped their construction. In September we will complete the complete reconstruction of D1 from Prague to Brno, 160 km of new highway de facto, for 24 billion. And finally after 36 years, we reached Hradec Králové D11. This year the construction of D4 towards Strakonice began. The first PPP project in the history of our country of 32 kilometers! What's a PPP project? That a private company would build a freeway. Effectively, quickly, better than standing. And we'll rent it. It's been talked about since the revolution, nobody's done anything. We did it. And now it's starting to build. In 2025 we connect Prague to D3 and Karlovy Vary to D6. This is the main problem of the Karlovy Vary Region. The highway, somebody's forgotten about it since the revolution. We built and built a lot of new bypasses as around Česká Lípa, Třinec, Pardubice, Frýdek-Místek, Otrokovice, Znojmo, Slaný, Jaroměř, Strakonic, Krnov, Revnicova. We build not only many times more than when you ruled, but also half as cheap as in the ODS era, when your Minister of Transport and his company miraculously became rich. He didn't have a conflict of interest? Or what it was? And why did you build a kilometer of highway for CZK 342 million? We build a kilometer of highway for CZK 152 million. And it goes faster thanks to the new Linen Construction Act that we have passed! Another thing you didn't care about! Billions are also seen in health care. We wiped out your schnapps who were sucked in public money. So we could finally start investing. And if anyone has forgotten, read Health Corruption Reports, the 2013 European Commission Corruption Report, when your government ended. This year, CZK 391.6 billion goes to health care. In four years of our government, we have launched a project of key strategic investments in hospitals, such as: IKEM. We bought top equipment, innovative medicines and medicines for patients with rare diseases. Thanks to us, in remote areas, a new office opened 62 practices and 30 dentists. We have increased the capacity of medical faculties and secondary health schools. So that someone should treat us until the doctors and nurses who have worked off the whole pandemic retire. We finally started doing something about sports, too. We continued to support sport, which I started as Minister of Finance. [[Laughter and applause from the right.]] I don't know, why are you laughing? How is Martin Kocourek, who distributed sports subsidies in a bar in Intercontinental? But only in the morning, in the afternoon he was tired. Then don't laugh! Or I'll remind you how you guys didn't even split up. In 2013, 3.5 billion crowns went to sport. And somebody here was building a different structure than the Ministry of Education. And how much goes into sports this year? Ten and a half billion! Ten and a half billion. My club program: we will support 6,500 projects for 1.6 billion. And thanks to the Cabin program, it's going to be 1,500 projects for 1.2 billion in the next two years. This means the end of stinking dressing rooms, crumbling halls and neglected sports facilities outside the big cities. We didn't forget culture either. We've reconstructed dozens of monuments. For example, in Prague, we managed to repair the historical iconic building of the National Museum precisely and opened for the 100th anniversary of the celebrations of the founding of Czechoslovakia. Then the State Opera or Negrelli viaduct. We've prepared a reconstruction of the Invalidovna. The Imperial Spa is finally being repaired in Karlovy Vary, so hopefully it won't stop. It took us five years to repair this fantastic memory. And the state was the one who gave the first money, and I was the one who sent 100 million. And in the summer we open an iconic swimming pool at Thermal Hotel! That's the guy you let me mess with the hotel. We put a lot of money in there, too. We also renovate the castle Karlštejn or the castle Telč. [[9.50 hours]] And now my favorite investment. I have enforced - the mayor here will certainly shout - to implement the project of the Museum of Totality in the former prison area in Uherské Hradiště, when I was there with Minister Herman. You've had anti-communism full of mouths since the revolution. And over the years, what have you done? Well, I guess you know what. We're not divorcing. [[Fun in the hall.]] Billions have been invested in our landscape and the environment. We supported the construction of hundreds of kilometers of taps and sewers. We've warmed up thousands of buildings and replaced over 100,000 boilers. We supported over 3,500 municipalities in the fight against drought. Since 2030, we have decided on the end of the landfills. And we finally passed the gardening law. And I'm proud of it. [[Fun in the hall.]] In 2001, somebody promised gardeners the law. Even President Klaus vetoed it. So hello to all the gardeners. You know I'm fierce and I kept my promise. And it's important because after the revolution, someone said we'd bring everything. Fine. Let's hope so. Long-term. The virus wasn't expected either. You want to overthrow a government that fights for Czech interests. Unlike you, we have finally begun to modernize our army. When the economic crisis came, the first thing you started cutting was the army. You even cut her budget to 1,1% of GDP. In 2009, the military had a budget of 56 billion and you reduced it by 14 billion to 42 in 2014. And for us, the military has a budget of 85 billion. We finally got the soldiers top gear and the technique that replaced the Soviet one. New American helicopters, Spanish and Swedish armor, Czech assault rifles and pistols, Israeli radiolocators. And we can continue with foreign policy. That's when our government did something about Russian residency in the Czech Republic. You've only talked about it for years. Nothing again. Above all, we are a government that fights strongly for Czech national interests in Brussels. We will get CZK 976 billion from the European Union for the financial period from 2021 to 2027. Of this, I, myself, have boxed 42 billion extra for the Czech Republic. I have boxed into the conclusions of the European Council, where all the presidents and premieres of the European Union sit, advocated the word core, natural gas as a net resource in meeting the European Union's climate objectives. And so are the effects of the crusty calamity! Our woods have been destroyed by KDU Chairman here. He didn't give a penny. We gave $20 billion to fight the crust. Our government. I started dinner in Brussels on 28 June, but it wasn't until 29 at 4 a.m. with my friend Viktor Orbán who stopped the mandatory migration quotas for which the MEPs had previously voted TOP 09 and STAN. And I have said it a thousand times that the Czech Republic is a sovereign state and we will decide ourselves who will work here and who will live here. This is the only responsible solution to migration. That's how the pirát and STAN put it on the program. A responsible solution to migration. I guess what they're saying is that rejecting refugee quotas is irresponsible. And I know what lies behind the responsible solution to migration. That's what you want. We will accept refugees without quotas, and voluntarily. A thousand or two Afghánec or Pákistánec won't kill us. No? That's what the pirát think they can do. Bartoš said: I wish the world were really without borders, migration is a natural thing. If - and we are already seeing this in France and Germany - Europe is to be Muslim within 10 to 15 years, I have no problem with it, says Mr Bartoš. Well, I have a problem with that. I have a problem with that. I don't want Muslim Europe. That was 12 years ago, he was 29 years old. dneska it explains that he saw through and that it was a youthful indiscretion. But it is interesting that seven years later, in 2016, he welcomes refugees. He was 36 years old. Probably indiscretion, too. I don't know what else we're gonna get. I'm terrified of what he's gonna do next out of indiscretion. So I say to you loud and loud, fellow citizens: We in the Czech Republic do not want a multicultural eco-fanatic pirate! We don't! [[Storming applause from the YES benches and from the government bench. Screams: Excellent! Bravo!]] We don't want to share our cars! We don't want to share our apartments! We don't want to share our country! [[The reaction from the diaper: And our women!]] We do not want our country to be run by the European Parliament! Some green fanatics the pirát have contacted! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I am the sovereign prime minister of this country. I'm not succumbing to anyone but the citizens. They gave me trust. And no one from abroad is gonna talk to us about it here. So I'd sum up the eight points. You want to overthrow a government that has enforced dignified pensions, has radically raised people's salaries, reduced people's taxes, increased standard of living, thinks of families, thinks of consumers, finally invests, fights for Czech interests. Another reason you want to distrust us is the pandemic, as the President said. That's where your hypocrisy, poserism, and sabotage proved to be in full nudity. From the beginning, you've been racking up the epidemic. While covid was screaming in Italy, you protested that we had banned flights from northern Italy and that we had taken the liberty of deciding that the Biathlon World Cup in New Town, Moravia, would go without spectators. That's when a lot of amateur epidemiologists came out for the first time. While we were implementing forceful anti-pandemic measures, you were talking about a dent. The first wave was virtually no wave, because the spread of the virus was stopped by our government in time. But most of all, we all had our butts clenched in fear. You've been holed up for a month, too, and you'd rather not even breathe. You've been completely lost. We managed to make it. And you couldn't forgive us for that. You immediately began to call after the release and after the end of the drape. And as time passed, some doctors, celebrities, journalists, and public figures joined you. And you've repeated that drapes are muzzles and that you want to live. You also celebrated the end of the epidemic on June 30th in Prague. It's your first anniversary. You can do it again. On Charles Bridge on a half-mile-long table set for 2,000 people, where Ms. Chairman TOP 09 Pekarová and Mrs. Němcová from ODS enjoyed a meal. Then they all took pictures with Mr. Feri. You can have a repeat. [[Laughter and applause from the YES benches.]] With the end of the summer, when the spat started again, you were the first to question them. And when things got tough, you turned 180 again. Last year you turned the covid into the only theme of regional elections. And you're going to do it again. You said I was the one who made the election decision. Well, I certainly didn't decide on the election because I knew exactly that even if we win in the regions, you're gonna knock us out. And what did you do? You went all over us where you could. And this year you're going to do it again. That's why you started your anti-Babish coalition. Therefore, from October 2020, you have been criticizing and sabotaging any measure, any decision, any action we have taken, and as a roundabout, you have kept repeating that we are restricting democracy and freedom, and you have continued to do so over and over again from the heat of opposition seats where you have absolutely no responsibility, parroting your floscules. [[10.00 hours]] Whatever we did was wrong for you. And then, over and over again, you complained that the measures were changing and that it was chaos. Well, world, look, we had to change measures because things were changing. And imagine the virus didn't ask us anything and did what he wanted. But when you felt the opportunity - the opportunity! - that you could beat the Babiš you were short on until then, your welcome ally became a covid, yes, and you bet everything on that card. Any rational discussion has vanished with you ever since, because the vision of defeating Babiš has completely obscured your brain. That's why all this questioning any measure. That's why the lawsuits. That's why the constant obstructions around the emergency. I mean, it's come to such an end that your own captains at the top of the pandemic crisis, when hospitals burst at seams, begged you to prolong the emergency. Oh, no! Destroying Babiš was a total priority, so you dropped the emergency, and the next day you guys were walking around with your head hanging over what you did. And where in the world did something like this happen? There's no such irresponsible opposition anywhere. I don't know any country where the opposition would take their own fellow citizens hostage. Mr. Miloslav wrote me a letter about your behavior. He is a 90-year-old gentleman from Prague 4. I hereby greet you, Mr Miloslav. And Mr. Miloslav writes: At the beginning of the fight against the covid, any decent politician would sit at a round table, throw an axe under it, and, with a hug, command a joint fight against an unknown epidemic. It was like a natural disaster. And everyone would say, when it's over, we're gonna pull those axes out again, and we're gonna kick our ass again, says Mr. Miloslav. But you don't. While we worked 24 hours a day, you didn't lift a finger! While we were at war with the virus, you continued to divide society behind our backs! I'm not saying we didn't make mistakes, we did, but we've always acted to protect the lives of our people. You did the opposite, and whatever mistakes you made, you multiplied them, no matter what we did, you always questioned everything, and then you were surprised that the government's measures weren't being followed by people. You haven't been doing the best you can to handle the pandemic all this past year. You're trying to make it as hard as we can! You have set your goal to defeat Babiš in the elections at all costs and since last October you have launched your brutal, ruthless and nihilistic election campaign. You act like saviors, but you're really nothing but saboteurs. You couldn't get a single mask, you couldn't get a single respirator, you couldn't get a single vaccine. But you could have helped us, all you had to do was ask. KDU and TOP 09, which are part of the human rights faction, could help us in the EPP fraction. When I fought with Sebastian Kurz, the Austrian Prime Minister, to divide vaccines by population, instead of saying it's right that it's Czech interest, you fought against Czech interests, and it made you happy. So the EPP is the biggest faction. It's interesting that we fought Kurz, but we were disobedient, so they didn't give us much. Other EPP, like Bulhar, Chorvat, Lotyš, got. Then why didn't you help the Czech Republic? No, you need that faction to dehonest me, to do those senseless European Parliament sessions! So the same faction, which had a major effect on the vaccines, is fighting against Babiš. Conflict of interest, 43 points. That lady, I don't even want to say her name, which was in the way she supplied those drapes under strange circumstances, but I don't want to go back to that. I won 235,000 extra vaccines for the Czech Republic! And we also provided innovative drugs that saved people's lives. Bamlanivimab or Regeneron, I was also involved with Isoprinosin and Ivermectin. And that was dozens of hours of work, phone calls and meetings. And speaking of hours, we've been talking 132 hours, citizens, respectable citizens, ladies and gentlemen, about the covid, including all the extraordinary meetings and unnecessary obstructions! 132 hours of bullshit! Let's do it again. You want to overthrow a government that has enforced dignified pensions, has radically raised people's salaries, reduced people's taxes, increased standard of living, thinks of families, thinks of consumers and finally invests and fights for Czech interests! And I will finish it again with Mr. Miloslav's words and greet him again. He tells you this: If you do not want to withdraw from your intention, which, in its essence, will only deepen the current difficult situation in our country, then do it and give the government distrust, but count on our citizens, our people, who are not stupid, and that in the upcoming elections, they will evaluate it properly, and certainly correctly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u5	Now, I repeat, we are before the debate, only priority rights. Now President Bartoš has the floor, then Minister Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u6	Dear Government, honourable Members, the Government of Andrej Babiš, with the support of the Communists, never had the support of the Pirate Party, and never did. That is why today we will vote in favour of this government's distrust. What's essential? According to national measurements, only 19 percent of people believe in government today, but only 11 percent of people, i.e. only one tenth of our citizens and voters, are satisfied with the policy, with the political situation in the Czech Republic, which this government represents and creates. Since this government has obviously lost public confidence, the Chamber of Deputies representing this public must respond to this. React clearly and intelligible. For almost four years as an opposition party, we have controlled the government, as we have filled our 2017 campaign password. Let us at them! And our promise to actively control the power and the powerful in this country. However, our role has always been constructive, we have never criticized the government purposelessly or primarily, as Prime Minister Babiš is trying to sell citizens here. We have put forward meaningful proposals for solutions that would really help improve the lives of citizens in our country, because it is their interest that we have always defended and advocated for a better future for everyone and without exception. This was also the case, for example, when approving or submitting important laws against corruption, for digitization, but also for helping families, companies, businessmen, raising pensions or teacher's salaries. All you have to do is look at the records in the House, the vote of the democratic opposition. We then applied the same procedure during the pandemic of coronavirus, which hit our country and our companies very hard. Throughout the crisis, we have come up with real solutions to the pandemic situation as well as economic proposals, help for groups that have been thrown overboard or forgotten about them, although they have never forgotten about them in those restrictions themselves, whether they were small-time people, private workers working at the IRS, retail, small, medium-sized companies or services one-on-one. The government has often rejected our help for incomprehensible reasons. To look at the humble motto "We are in this together" that was at the kramářův villa above Prague, unfortunately, it was just another of the series of mottos from Andrej Babiš's workshop, which had little to do with real cooperation here in the House, but also with the way the government treated people. In addition, the government was buying up obvious mistakes one by one. [[10.10 hours]] We have always been active and constructive despite the fact that not only the Prime Minister of pirát is constantly lying in the media space, spreading rumors, and often he personally blames his mistakes not only on us, on the pirát, but on the parties in the House, in the democratic opposition, and very often on our partners in the European Union, in Europe and abroad. And I'm taking the liberty of being a little personal right now. I must therefore admit that for some of the disrespectful comments that Mr Babiš has made here, too, often from the mouth of Prime Minister Babiš towards our foreign partners and politicians, often respected, with whom Mr Babiš boasts at other times, I was ashamed to take pictures of them on the red carpet for my Facebook, and I was ashamed of some of those comments here in the House and in the media towards these politicians. And when I meet diplomats, I often had to apologize for them. Our partners supported us in exposing the willow cause and the subsequent testimony of Russian spies, but it was not because of the actions of our government that were not united. It was not thanks to the Prime Minister, rather I think that, given the context and the context of his European behaviour and his case rather despite. And perhaps because the government was not able to cope with the diplomatic crisis by communicating with it, the subsequent support was not so strong. Still, we are grateful to our allies. In short, Prime Minister Babiš shows by his negative example how important it is for our country to have allies, to have allies not only in Europe but also within the Alliance, and also treat them as allies. In this, not only through Prime Minister Babiš's statements, but also through the policy he represents, this government is failing significantly. We in the Chamber of Deputies have always defended the interests of all people and their rights, not only those who gave us their vote in the elections. And so we do today. This is the third time in this parliamentary term that the government has expressed distrust - and this has already been said - in this parliamentary term. And it's never been any special-purpose politicization, as Prime Minister Babiš here is trying to manipulate us. It has always occurred after the publication of the major cases and, most often, the errors relating to the Prime Minister. The last vote we had here about the government's mistrust was, for example, as a result of the publication of the European Commission's audit report, which clearly identified the Prime Minister in conflict of interest, not only from the point of view of European legislation, but also from the point of view of the Czech conflict of interest law. After almost two years, the Prime Minister did not accept any reflection. The whole time -- look out, it's changed recently -- he's been saying it's his old firm that he doesn't own this company. They are companies that receive subsidies, compete with public contracts, claim that they are not his, refer to them as their former firm. Now, from 1 June this year, Agrofert and other companies under the Real Owners Registration Act must register Prime Minister Babiš as the person controlling Agrofert. His ministers, lastly with the nickname universal, but Minister Havlíček continues to prevent factual corruption in size, so now he claims otherwise, claiming that this is a fair competition. He claims that it is not immoral to receive public finances and subsidies that you, Prime Minister, decide on, mediated by your replacements, if you are Prime Minister. And let's face it: not only is it completely immoral, but it's mainly illegal. That's the big problem. I would like to remind you that the top members of the government's social democracy - now there is not much sitting behind me, not even in the benches - have argued since the beginning of this case that the final confirmation of the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister will be the red line of remaining in government for social democracy. I think it's more of an imaginary red thread that mates with Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček's sweater, because there's been a final confirmation of the conflict of interest, and social democracy has done nothing at all. [[Members of social democracy all dressed in a red sweater today]] On the contrary, social democracy has been riding with Prime Minister Babiš all along on that imaginary government car, and now that they're at the limit of eligibility, she doesn't logically want to get out of this car, so at least for the last few months she's been employing her prominents in those important places. It is worth a few hundred thousand crowns at the end of this journey, whether it be Mr. Hašek or similar to him. With the Communists, it's a little different in the pale blue, maybe it's not that obvious. But even some other parties don't want to leave a warm spot. This turned out at the moment when, together with the coalition of the SPOLU, we wanted to find a fairer option towards the people, i.e. write early elections through the dissolution of the House. In addition to the coalition of the Pirates and Mayors and the coalition of the SPOLU, all parties refused to give the decision back to our citizens. But let's go back to the government party, and we're talking about the government here. YES, it reported that it wanted to depolitize the Czech government. So it was the mouth of Prime Minister Babiš and the other faces that were with him on the posters, or almost all the faces that were with him on the posters have disappeared somewhere and no wonder. The opposite has become the truth. The government has been politicized in such a way that I believe it will register in the manuals how not to fight corruption, how not to fight nepotism, how not to fight clientelism. On the contrary, the end of Babišův's era will serve as a lesson in how he controls himself or, rather, how he should not control himself. The case of Bečva discussed here many times can serve as a perfect example. Even the sparrows on the roofs in Valašské Meziříčí have croaked their necks on how such a serious environmental disaster is being investigated. I still haven't understood - the case of Bečva and the development - why nothing is happening in this matter and why the obvious culprit is hiding here. And for what I have mentioned - the politicisation of the state administration, the control of the whole system - a new term emerges in the public space: agrifertization of the state administration. And I am convinced that anyone who sees it should say their clear no! We don't want to go any further this way. I would now sum up some of the main reasons why this government - and I am quite surprised by the superpowers of the Prime Minister, who described what he has done here, maybe I will get to it, but I do not want to respond directly - why this government does not deserve the confidence of political parties in the House or citizens. Because it's an absolutely out-of-control pandemic situation, when we look at the surrounding countries, they're high casualties. It's ruining the state budget. The destruction of public finances, which are not mentioned here by any opposition in the House, but which are referred to by the government's own authorities, expert groups, economists in the Czech Republic. It's the destruction of public finances. The destruction of human lives - and I could also read you letters that people write to me - and the entire segment of small and medium-sized business. For the first quarter in 2021 alone, almost 44,000 individuals ceased their trade. This is 85 percent more to compare with 2018 before the covid. Another reason, and I think that is one of the great mistakes of this government, is the completely out-of-control situation in the field of our education and education. And I do not deny that schools have closed down in some other countries, but nowhere has the failure of this presentation studio been so crucial and so long. According to the OECD, schools have been closed for the longest time, for seven whole months, and the effects on the lives of our schoolchildren today and in the future are enormous. And it's not just about failing or failing to master a course, it's about social issues, it's about psychological issues. [[10.20 hours]] What I think is a very bad business card for this government, and it illustrates it, they have changed with the governments of Andrej Babiš before the covid, too, but what I think is a major problem is five rotations of Andrej Babiš's government ministers as a minister of health within eight months of the pandemic. That seems almost like a world record to me, but I didn't do an analysis in that direction. We talk a lot about the economy of the Czech Republic. Mr. Babiš here has been telling who he's ever given money to and how beautiful everything is. The huge deficit of this state budget for this year, but also planned, where the Minister is moving the planned deficit in tens of billions in months, while the government is planning to hand out other pre-election gifts that will make the situation significantly worse, I think it is something that we should focus on in the House. Here was offered a hand for some debate. No one has ever discussed with us the budget planning to be discussed by the House next year. But public finances are down, the deficit is enormous. She didn't go where she was supposed to go with the promised help. And I certainly don't think it's time to deepen this debt even more now. The Prime Minister himself pointed out here, and I didn't want to talk about it, but I think he wanted to address this topic in the House, the case of the Cape Nest. We've got the Minister of Justice here, she's supposed to stay sharp when the Prime Minister's saying how the whole thing goes on purposefully, it's a set-up case. So the Police of the Czech Republic are proposing to indict Mr. Babiš in this case. It took 14 years. Yes, we need to speed up the process, of course. But I don't know when the police are handing over a closed case with the prosecution's motion that there's a government sitting here that's supposedly manipulating it, ignoring the purpose under it. I think the organs are doing the right thing. Let's see where this goes at the D.A.'s level. But what's the major problem? That's Prime Minister Babiš's mammoth conflict of interest. Holding is in fact owned by the Prime Minister. And that is when he is in this government, contrary to both Czech and European law. I just wanted to remind you that the conflict of interest law was the government proposal that Andrej Babiš was sitting in, so the illusion that he's being framed by some opposition politicians here is not true. The last time it was repeated by Minister Dostálová on a television show, Demagog issued an assessment as false. Look who designed the bill and how it was voted. I would just like to say that we should also have this framed by some number that we are talking about 20 billion Czech crowns in European and national subsidies and public procurements up to this time. This is the money of Czech citizens of the Czech Republic, which is in the budget, it is money that comes from European subsidies. So since Andrej Babiš was part of the government, 20 billion crowns have gone to Mr. Babiš's companies. That's not all. A high level of corruption - and here it was mentioned as money flows into sport, so we saw the last audit on government-designed, House-pressed National Sports Agency, we see it in other cases. A high level of corruption and clientelism, where the index does not move upwards in the Czech Republic, is here. She may not be so eye-beating because Andrej Babiš promoted her to a system thing. In my PR book, Mr. Babiš promised to deal with corruption. What was the reality? Perhaps - a pity that he is not here - another famous literary work speaks, these are the journals of Mr.Faltýnek, which unfortunately we have the opportunity to watch in the media where they are quoted gradually. So Prime Minister Babiš has never tried to eradicate corruption in the Czech Republic, because his thinking is a bit similar to his political partner here, the chairman of Mr.Faltýnek's MP's club. This thinking can be summed up in a simple password: the system and the whole Republic are working on Babiš. But that's not our password, and it never will be. There are other fundamental things that have happened. We have talked here many times about the independence of the prosecutor's office and about the independence of the Czech judiciary. In my opinion, the next relatively crucial step that has become was the de facto elimination of the Supreme Attorney General Zeman, on whom pressure has been exerted by his words and from here sitting Minister Benešová. There was suspicion of corruption in the purchase of medical supplies. We drew attention to these suspicious orders not only at the Ministry of Health last spring, the SAO dealt with the matter, found this error and the matter is now being investigated by NCOZ, which is called the Anti-Mafia Office or the department in the talk, but also in the media. I mentioned here trust in the Czech Republic from our foreign partners in the European Union and the Alliance. I am convinced that this will not be able to cope with communication and actions following the willow case, including the lies of Minister Hamáček about his trip to Moscow, who tried, even though he knew the circumstances of the case, to take advantage of the situation at the last moment in his favour or in favour of social democracy, is wrong. But then he lied about it not to us here, Members, but he lied about it to the public. This trip was planned, I think it was extremely irresponsible, and it is very much involved in the destruction of the Czech Republic in an international context, which, if you control foreign languages or Google translator, you can see how the press of the Russian Federation informs about this case, not the press of the Russian Federation, but countries from which we should take an example from other things, our partners in the Union and the Alliance. The last in my list, but not the last sin of this government, is the government's actions in manifest conflict with the laws of the pandemic. An example may be the actual liquidation of retail trade which has been unlawfully closed for months, which has never been assessed as an epidemiological risk threat or operation. Courts of various instances have many times abolished repressionist government measures concerning freedom of people and the operation of trades and companies that have not been justified. There was a clear, understandable reason why the government applied these restrictions to citizens and businesses. Yet, over and over and over again, the government was taking its faulty measures, although it had to know that at that time. And that's even worse. A government that acts contrary to the laws of its own country and knows it does not only deserve the trust of citizens and the House, but also loses its legitimacy in the context of the democratic system and the right itself. The expression of distrust by the House of Deputies is not only a political option, but in the context of all this, it is our constitutional duty. We must therefore respond to such a fundamental failure by the government as our Constitution assumes. This is therefore a clear and logical step in fulfilling our responsibility to the public. As I said at the outset, the public is dissatisfied with this government. It is a step that might finally show the Prime Minister of this government to Andrej Babiš that, unlike Agrofert, he is not the real owner of the Czech Republic, he is not even the end beneficiary of all its subsidies and benefits, and instead of his preferences and his favorite campaign photos, he should take care of the interests of our country's citizens. First of all. The government should not act like some last party in Vyšehrad and approach our country's budget and future as a kind of tip, with the prospect that the last one to leave here will go out. But, unfortunately, this is what the government is doing with its actions and the steps it is doing now, and according to what is appearing in the media, it intends to continue to do, unfortunately, to fulfil this approach. The problem I see is that whoever will be here in the next parliamentary term, the future government, will have to shine in a country that is thus shattered, which is left behind by Andrej Babiš after his private experiment, and I am not afraid to call it that, on which he made billions a year, he left it. And maybe that's why, this lost future, I blame the government of Andrej Babiš the most. Andrej Babiš and his clock of constantly changing ministers took away this country's future. [[10.30 hours]] Our insight into the coming years will be to a large extent to repair the damage caused by this government not only during the pandemic period. At a declining level, the state budget deficit and other circumstances pointed out to the SAO before the pandemic broke out. Our businessmen, employees see mostly skinny years ahead of them, when they will erase the losses suffered during the pandemic, and looking at the development of the state budget prepared by Minister Schillerová, a lot of people, including us, in some cases literally stiffening blood in the veins. That is why the main objective of our policy is to return the country to the future. We, the whole country, must not only feel that it makes sense to strive for these things, because the efforts that we put into this will bring fruit in the foreseeable future. The current government has shown that it can no longer bring anything new in this regard. We still have a few months before the election. I would like to stress that by expressing my distrust to the House government today, neither does her work. On the contrary. We still need to help people and companies out of the crisis, address the impacts of the covid on society, and reduce the risk of returning another wave of virus in autumn. When we drew attention to this before - and the Prime Minister here is lying - we were not heard, so we were mocked. Protect the hand of the pána to repeat the situation that occurred last autumn, so that the government would do the same when it laughed at others, that we were afraid that Covid was gone, and because of the regional elections - and it was because of the regional elections! - the Prime Minister has taken the risks or the need to plan, to activate the sensible measures. And we know the result. I'm bohužel so. It's worst in covid, worst in covid. It's 30,000 casualties in lives, broken families and companies, as I've already mentioned. I would like to stress what needs to be resolved by this autumn: Ensure a truly more effective capture so-called. dangerous mutations through sequencing. That has to happen. Ensure sufficient capacity for voluntary vaccination and tracing capacity so that we can locate the possible occurrence of the virus so that it does not spread to us again in the large community throughout the Czech Republic. Be prepared for PCR testing citizens otherwise than by repeated closure of everyone and everything. Our economy couldn't stand this next blow. And to help everyone who has had this destructive impact for more than a year, and the government has damaged them, even as it appears from the conclusions of the courts, has acted contrary to the laws of this country. The Prime Minister has said a lot of things here, but I miss this plan in the fall today. Once again, the government shows that not only has it failed many times in the past not only in the context of covid, but it seems to me that it is completely unlearned and that it can repeat the same mistakes again. We just can't stand by, here we have to sound the alarm. The motion to express distrust of this government is thus on the table and it is up to all of us today to decide whether the Chamber of Deputies wants to continue to tolerate this almost crazy ride of business predator Andrej Babiš for me. Or we can start a new journey together, when the House will actually restore its role and stand above that government, because the role of the House is to control the government. The way we will look together for concrete ways to lead the country out of the economic, health and social crisis. The path to restoring the reputation of our country, which, unfortunately, has been repeatedly damaged by this government. A journey that will bring back the future in the country. We are all facing this challenge here today. For the pirát, this path is right and, above all, responsible especially for the people of our country, and that is why today the pirate club will vote in favour of distrusting the government of Andrej Babiš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u7	That was Ivan Bartoš -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u8	I'll take the liberty of taking three notes on what Prime Minister Babiš said here, I'd like to take the liberty of responding to it. Mr. Babiš sometimes works as such a generator of lies, and there are so many that man is not enough to catch all. I noticed one thing that was said here, which bragged about public transport. So the proposal to reduce VAT in public transport was the original proposal by Mrs Věra Kovářová for the Mayors and Independent, and when she was voted on, Prime Minister Babiš was not in the House for a change, he was missing, all of them opposed, two of them abstained, and social democracy was about halfway. So if the Prime Minister here is telling him examples of his accomplishments, then his prep team should at least tell him what is and what isn't true, so that we don't listen to fantasies here again. The second thing that was said here by Prime Minister Babiš. In 2015, the Czech Pirate Party, as the only party not yet in the House, at the moment when Sobotkův's government, in which he was, was groping about how to approach the migration problem comprehensively, so we issued a complete position on migration, everyone can track it - Pirates 2015, where we rejected the automatic relocation mechanism for the relocation of refugees as dysfunctional, where we were the first to clearly define the difference between who is a refugee who is taking asylum proceedings on the basis of international law and an economic migrant. We were the first to define what help is in countries where these problems arise, how important international aid is, for example, through the UN, where the Czech Republic has major deficits in its financial performance, to which it has committed itself. So only to his interpretation. So everyone can look up in 2015, it was the most comprehensive position of the Pirate Party. The Pirate Party has a clear policy in this, and I would ask the Prime Minister not to lie to people and scare them away. And maybe the last thing, and because this feels really disgusting to me. I even noticed when Prime Minister Babiš here, Olza Richterová, Vice-President, once claimed that she enjoyed the number of dead people. I wanted to throw up when I heard it, but I'm used to the House and all those different meetings outside of everything. If the Prime Minister were here, I'd tell him myself. I would much rather that YES now had 30% and we beat you with the Pirates and with STAN with a quality program for the future in the elections because you are doing a bad policy. And the Czech Republic didn't have 30,000 dead in vain because of you, because you're bad at politics! [[Did you?]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u9	That was Ivan Bartoš. We're still out of the debate. Now with priority rights of Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Vice Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members and, of course, the esteemed television viewers, to whom today's meeting by opposition Members is primarily addressed. There are exactly 126 days left until the election. From the press conferences of the Pir-STAN electoral coalition and the SPOL's right-wing coalition, we know that the opposition has already launched its election campaign. Therefore, there is no need to lie to yourself that today's meeting is anything other than part of this electoral agitation. And since it is already the third attempt to express distrust of this government, we know that every minute of television transmission will undoubtedly be used properly by individual opposition leaders who will outwit each other about who will so to speak more to the government. In short, who's gonna get into that headline on "News" or "iDNES." As if you have not learned, colleagues, that the negative campaign is not working very well and that, especially at a time of freshly and expensive return to normal during the most important logistical events in the country's modern history, i.e. the general vaccination and population testing, the distrust of the government would be an extremely irresponsible step. And don't be mistaken, especially at this difficult time, any possible instigation of chaos, uncertainty, and confusion would bring no political points to anyone. [[10.40 hours]] You're saying you can't do anything differently, and you're referring to an alleged conflict of interest. In fact, you are only taking advantage of the complexity of European funding for your own media visibility. Of course, this is nothing new especially for the Pirate Party. The Czech Republic has already lost hundreds of millions of European resources once because of your senator, owing to its unconfirmed defilement by the European Union funded monitoring system project for European subsidies in the Czech Republic. An account for our country? Useless damage to 800 million crowns. Damage the government of Andrej Babiš at any price, including threats to the interests of the Czech Republic. Sure, that's exactly what's going on here. But the Czech Republic is not an anarchist establishment, we are not in the 18th century Caribbean. We are a sovereign rule of law, and the duty of every responsible government is to fight for the country's fiscal interests. In the event of a dispute between the legal order of the Czech Republic and a foreign legal interpretation, the court is in place, not the political agitation of opposition leaders. There are principles that apply and that you cannot question. Not even in the election fight. And one of them is that we have to follow the law. You're saying that the government didn't support our economy and living standards enough in the country at the time of the coronavirus. You shoot ideas from your waist that would mean hundreds of billions more deficits and also endanger the stability of the health or social system. You mock the government's aid, which exceeded 466 billion by the end of May. In one breath, however, you are talking about the need to raise taxes, to change the valorisation formula to the detriment of the elderly and the need for drastic cuts. How do these ideas go together to promote a standard of living? It'll give you a glimpse of history and a little bit of numbers. The year is 2008 to 2009. Big recession. And government aid at what level? Pitiful units of billions. Desperate little government help. So small that it became one of the triggers of another, repeated recession, which you caused your own political cowardice. Both the ODS and the TOP 09 have historically failed to help the economy. You did not have the courage to respond accordingly, and therefore, don't be angry with me, your criticism today is completely but completely unbelievable. We have heard and we will hear a hundred fairy tales of reasons for distrust, but no longer indisputable truth about the fact that the Czech Republic and its management have climbed to the level of Belgium or Great Britain during this government and that, according to Eurostat, we are still the fourth least indebted EU country. And our economy is in good shape, unemployment is low, and we are on the verge of a very solid economic growth. Why? Because we know that consolidation of public budgets must be smart, slow and without drastic cuts. Yet I think that today's meeting, even though it is likely that it will bring nothing tangible or useful to this country and its citizens, can be useful to voters in a sense. Citizen always looks for clear alternatives, thinks and evaluates. Behind the scenes of this political leadership is a government that has done a great deal of work for the Czech Republic. I am proud that the conscience of this government can be completely clear. And now I'm gonna be specific, and I'm gonna start first things first. Our public finances are among the best in Europe. While the government debt in 2013 was 41.1 percent of GDP, at the end of 2019, which was the last non-covide year, we reduced it by more than 12 percentage points, to 29 percent of GDP. And it is thanks to this extraordinary reserve and a clear trend that we can now afford to support people, companies and the economy during an unprecedented crisis. And this is not, as you claim, at the expense of future generations, but precisely because we have been saving this uncompromisingly in recent years. And what's even more important? At present, the amount of government debt is at 39.9 percent of GDP. Please refer to the end of the first quarter of 2021. This is still less than the 41.1 % in 2013. Yes, that's right. Less and less. And public finances as a whole are even better off. They build on the accounts of municipalities and regions, reach an incredible CZK 350 billion and grow every month. The management of the municipalities ended in the first quarter of this year, 2021, with a surplus of 17,7 billion. Of this, 14.1 billion are municipalities and 3.5 billion are regions. And, of course, this also increases the investment potential of individual self-governments, which unfortunately, in the case of Prague, for example, remains dramatically unfulfilled, unlike investment by the state, which grows on paper and in fact every year. Next year, we're gonna invest 189 billion in record capital and we're gonna make a good investment this year. After all, everyone who goes for a D1 ride can see that well. We also invest in living standards in the country, raising pensions. Next year, the average pension will be CZK 16,195 a month. Our promise was 15,000. People who spend their whole lives working hard and making an honest contribution to the social system deserve a dignified old age. This is what intergenerational solidarity is all about. That's what an advanced state is about, able to take care of the most necessary. And in times of crisis, that is twice as true. We all remember the time when our parents and grandparents received envelopes with information that their pension would rise by 40 crowns or even less. And speaking of living standards, I certainly don't mean just pensions. The Czech Republic has simply moved to a completely different level in the level of wages and wages since 2014. And not only do public sector employees like teachers, paramedics, police officers, or firefighters know that. It's just an economic fact. And as a result of the tax cuts on employees from 20.1% to 15 percent from 1 January this year, even at a time when such increases in payouts simply cannot be allowed by employers. A bet is paid that there is no need to raise money blindly for better management, higher investment, and higher living standards. Increasing taxes was part of the common practice of the governments of the political parties of the current opposition. But raising taxes is a thing of the past. Our government cuts taxes. We have reduced taxes by CZK 510 billion since 2014. And that money remains human. Those who agree best know how to deal with them. I must laugh when I hear from the opposition their favorite, that the government does nothing about tax evasion of large corporations. We focus on big fish, and we get results. Just look at tax housewives at transfer prices that are really enormous. Since 2014, the tax loss has already been reduced or the tax base of these corporations has been increased by CZK 47 billion. [[10.50 hours]] We also successfully respond to the phenomenon of a shared economy. We concluded a tax memorandum with Uber on the basis of which the Financial Administration obtains all the information necessary to ensure control of personal income tax. We have prepared and enforced an amendment to the Local Charges Act, which sets equal rules for all accommodation service providers including Airbnb. Our design of digital tax according to the prestigious Bloomberg Czech Republic showed the world how to properly tax internet giants. Not only in our country, but in every country in the world, without a built-up infrastructure, without a legal system, no company would sell online business and make almost nothing. It is in the hands of this House whether or not the digital tax will be introduced this year. In international investment arbitrations, we are among the most successful countries in the world. Since January 2015, the Ministry of Finance won 14 arbitrages and held a total of 17.2 billion. We're reducing the business-related administration. Over 74,000 traders decided to pay taxes and insurance on a flat-rate basis, i.e. by entering a single permanent payment of CZK 5 469 a month into internet banking, and they no longer have to deal with anything. We're actively dealing with illegal gambling. We have argued that the Czech Republic is no longer a casino in the heart of Europe. We've completed modern gambling regulation that works. We have launched a register of excluded persons from gambling, protecting not only the players themselves, but also their families. Compared to 2014, we managed to reduce the number of games by 80 percent and more than half less we also have slot machines. We passed an amendment to the Exchange Act, so we stepped on a currency exchange that was unfair to our clients. We have introduced a ban on double exchange tickets or the possibility of withdrawing from a disadvantageous exchange within three hours of the transaction. In short, everything that has been a disgrace to our country for decades is slowly disappearing. And believe me, I could go on for a really long time. Fighting pandemics brought a need for an immediate response. And we have responded by launching measures that no one has ever done before. When we came up with a global moratorium on loans in the spring of 2020, that was something that was new in Europe, there was no experience that we could copy. However, the moratorium has been enforced and worked. Concerns about the creditor-debtor relationship have not been fulfilled. We have shown that even a small country can pioneer. They used hundreds of thousands of debtors to help, and with them the economy. Compensation bonus, or immediate assistance to affected traders, paid by the Financial Administration in the form of a refund. Since the spring of last year, more than 40 billion crowns have come to our citizens in this way. Or a brand new law to support the lending of companies with a state guarantee, which brought immediate assistance to companies that would otherwise have reached the loan only difficult or too late, amounting to CZK 500 billion, which are available for such use. Measures that improve our citizens' lives are neither left-wing, right-wing, liberal, or conservative. They are necessary and useful. Maybe she could have just been here a few years earlier. Perhaps it was enough not to do it on purpose and instead of unnecessary obstructions and efforts to see things through, and especially to work so that our country would change for the better as quickly as possible. And in a crisis, it's double that. Ladies and gentlemen, I respect the opposition's role in criticizing the government. At the same time, I never really understood the way to criticize her at all costs. I respect the right of the Chamber of Deputies to express distrust to the government. However, I do not understand the timing for a period of fragile return to normal, the approval of the law of the year, the state budget, and a very important vaccination process. I wish for today's decision-making among most of you to outweigh the responsibility to our country against short-sighted politics and also from irresponsible gestures. Because expressing distrust to the government in the current situation, and just a few months before the elections, in my opinion, it would really be nothing else. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, Vice Prime Minister, Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. I will still state the apology of Mr Jiří Kobza from today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies between 12 and 16 o'clock. Now, with priority law, Mr Vít Rakušan continues. We're still out of the debate. Before I give you my word, I have one more apology or two, namely Minister Jakub Kulhánek from 11 to 14 o'clock, and Mr Řehounek between 13 and 16 o'clock. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, members and members of the government, esteemed absent Prime Minister, esteemed colleagues. The Prime Minister here tried to interpret this meeting today as some kind of pure political conflict between the evil opposition and the good, responsible government. But it's not like that. This day is a message. A message from people who don't trust this government. A message from people who have their representatives in the Chamber of Deputies and who want these representatives to convey their opinion and attitude to the chaos government here in the Chamber of Deputies. The government's pulled away from reality. The government has become a prisoner of its own demagogical PR. The Czech Republic is not a smiling facebook of Andrej Babiš. The Czech Republic is a country that is in a moral, economic disruption. In what the government doubted in that pandemic period, I would like to begin. What people are saying to this government. Do you remember that you didn't have enough protective equipment for the paramedics? Do you remember, my dear government, how you bought aids from China, paid an amount from CZK 60 to CZK 422 for the FFP3 respirators, even CZK 777 in the case of FFP2? Do you still remember when you started the vaccination and the system fell down on the first day, it was impossible to log in, the birth number didn't work, and people got their seats in the vaccination sites completely different than they did? Do you still remember your ministers who forbade, commanded, coveted repression, tried to fine people for violating government orders, and then went to restaurants tonight drinking papalas and parading around in front of these businesses without masks? Do you still remember that? It's hypocritical. And you've been hypocritical the whole time. The government has proven to be in breach of the law in at least ten specific and proven cases. The government, which replaced the repression, did not follow any laws on its own, and its ministers acted in a way that did not comply with their own regulations. Do you remember the chaos of issuing your own orders that even the mayor and the chieftain didn't understand? Do you recall the chaos when you introduced your so-called compensatory programs and entrepreneurs were unable to chew through a demanding administration and help, which is to be quick, effective, came many times very and very late? [[11.00 hours]] Do you remember last summer when there was a warning from epidemiologists that the autumn epidemic could take a turn, and the government decided that protective aids would not be introduced since September? Do you remember the autumn wave of pandemics, which cost many lives, and many people in the Czech Republic and the Czech Republic literally sent a letter to the twilight of countries that were fighting the covid pandemic at that time? Can you also remember how many health ministers you had? The resort that's absolutely crucial to the management of the pandemic? They were spinning like you were on an astronomical clock. And even the clock has already started spinning around. One minister is coming back because no real expert wants to enter your government of experts anymore. Why would he do that? Ministers don't decide. Finally, the Prime Minister always decides, not professionally, but as his high-quality PR team recommends. Did you know that you took away the future from the children? How do you justify that the Czech children were home the longest from all the countries of the European Union? How do you explain to them that their competitiveness with their peers from other countries decreases significantly, but significantly? [[Compared to]] How do you explain that first graders and second graders went to school, third graders, seniors didn't? We were the only country in the European Union that divided the first stage into several categories. You're cursing yourself here by increasing your teachers' salaries. Yes, that was the opinion of the entire Chamber of Deputies and a rare political consensus because teachers deserve it. But you're no longer talking about how you left them in the middle of a pandemic crisis. You are no longer talking about how system support for distance teaching was minimal and only mattered and only about the creativity of teachers and directors, how they were able to set up teaching processes. These are fatal failures, and the education sector will recover for a long time, as will the children themselves. You left them at home instead of trying to find a way to get them back to school as soon as possible. And those roads were. There were examples of good practice from abroad, there were examples of countries that did it. Not the Czech Republic, because the government was driven from the beginning by one great chaos. You resigned to help people effectively. The economists clearly told you: help must be quick, simple, effective. You're involved in your administration and bureaucracy. You've been writing programs unnecessarily complicatedly. You had a lot of chaos in business rules. They didn't know how to ask. For example, people from the cultural industry have long pointed out that they are forgotten, just as you forgot about culture in the waves of relaxing that were coming. She wasn't in the original plan. The absence of a plan to fight the covid, not listening to experts, the dissolution of expert teams at the Ministry by a minister who spent some nice six weeks of his life there, that's the result of your government's work. Absent to help those who really need help. Where is your help to the singles, whom I have asked here several times for at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the law? I've been feeding you data, STEM research, that it's the most affected group. Well, I guess she's not that much of a voter-attractive. I guess you didn't need her on your side. But the state is in crisis to help those who are really affected. And that's not what this government has proven to be doing. You look like you're giving them something, some money: we generously supported them. The self-employed are those who form the basis of our economy and pay their health and social insurance and, of course, have the right from that bureaucratic, complex state that you have not simplified, to want help when they find themselves in crisis. Don't look like some kind of Donator. You manage this state, stand in crisis, and you are responsible for effectively helping. And that's where you failed. And I'm getting to the next point, and that's crucial to what the government of Andrej Babiš has done here: it's a disruption of morality, it's exceeding all the conceivable standards that have been unimaginable in our political environment until then. Not only has Andrej Babiš led the Communist to a real share in the power of the revolution for the first time, but we also have a prime minister who is criminally prosecuted and has never brought any personal responsibility out of it. He has never taken such a step to dispel the concern that, as Prime Minister of the Government, he has the opportunity to influence the resolution of his own criminal cases. That's something that doesn't even have an equivalent in a civilized world. And even ten or fifteen years ago, this would have been unimaginable in the Czech Republic. Prime Minister Babiše is stuck here as he fought the corruption, as the Czech Republic was once the country that had the highest level of corruption according to statistics. Sort of different numbers. According to Transparency International, the Czech Republic has fallen by six rungs in the fight against corruption, in the fight against corruption, only in 2020. That's the official figure. We're at some 49th place in Europe. Is that the result of the anti-corruption government? We're going down. We're not getting better. These are objective figures, and what the Prime Minister says here is simply not true. The Prime Minister here has cursed the European Union: you will not say what I can and cannot say, I am the Czech Prime Minister! And the European money doesn't stink? [[In an elevated voice.]] His Agroferta for the innovative bread from the Penam bakery doesn't smell like European money? That's when Europe isn't evil? The Europe that's punishing him with a finding of conflict of interest? By the way, the European Commission noted that Prime Minister Babiše is in conflict of interest not only according to European legal standards, but also according to Czech ones. And once the Prime Minister lied. And proven. I just don't know when. Today he said I'm not in any conflict of interest. Well, I'll show you a picture here. [[He's showing the material.]] Yes, I have a conflict of interest, but I'm not using it. I didn't want to go into politics. - He said it at the same place he said he had no conflict of interest today! The Prime Minister said so in the Chamber of Deputies and it is a traceable statement. So when did he lie? Back when he said he had a conflict of interest, or today, when he claims he didn't, after a clear statement from the European Commission? This really is an example of the way with us - but what about us? - with the public, Prime Minister Babiš communicates with the citizens of this country. Andrej Babiš stepped into politics and claimed to be the representative of the anti-corruption movement. Well, I'm with the Central Bohemia Region. We inherited him in good condition after the former captain and her crew. There are, for example, consultancy contracts, which may not be based on the performance of any particular work. The director of the Central Bohemia Regional Office, a colleague and colleagues, took a higher salary than you did, because his rewards were absolutely incredible. For what? We don't really know. Not to mention other officials, loaning a private vehicle, criminal charges against a paramedic during the pandemic. She's one of Babiš's closest anti-corruption associates. I don't even want to talk about President Faltýnek's notebook, which, as an important politician in his journal, doesn't have a single record of political activity, but a lot of business records, where he writes, for example, "the real owner of me" and so on. National Sports Agency - a wasted opportunity for this government to do something new. A missed opportunity to show - and again, the responsibility of the YES movement, both personnel and organisational - that something can be done better in our country. Forty thousand for tires, one page presentation for twelve thousand crowns. It's a mockery to people. Is that your hypocrisy - talking about corruption here and running the state as a company? The state is supposed to lead like a state. That's the first sentence that should apply. But you're showing that you can't run the companies that you've created, and that there's the things that I've pointed out here. [[11.10 hours]] The discussion in the House is replaced by a quarter hour of hatred and hysteria by the Prime Minister. He's yelling at us, pointing at us and saying: 132 hours of bullshit. Yes, this is how Andrej Babiš perceives any discussion. Who doesn't agree with him, who dares to say he did something wrong, that's called bullshit. This is parliamentary democracy in the image of Prime Minister Babiš. Do you remember when he was talking about the government of experts? The government of experts. You're gonna get some real experts. I'm only allowed to read last names, not first names or titles. Malá, Krčál, Ťok, Nováková, Kněžínek, Staněk, Kremlík, Vojtěch, Prymula, Blatný, Petříček, Arenberger. Do you remember the faces of all the experts who left Andrej Babiš's government? Me neither. The real experts who were here left a lot and were always replaced by other experts and experts. Twelve ministers, 12 ministers have abandoned this government. And that the performance would somehow improve in some way after that, but we highly doubt that. It's not the government of experts. It is the government of people who are able to listen to Prime Minister Babiš fulfill his assignment, but there is considerable doubt about expertise. International reputation of the Czech Republic. Maybe now after the Vrbětice case. What the government did seemed brave in the first phase: we will denounce Russian diplomats. Okay, the opposition has agreed to it, we've called you to it. But everything else was crazy. The trip to Moscow, the lack of support for our diplomacy abroad, a very lukewarm and critical response from our European allies to how the Czech Republic negotiated, the statements of some specific ministers and ministers questioning the conclusions of our security community to the great joy of the Russian party. This is the result of how you represent the interests of Czech citizens abroad. Dukovany. The security community has long pointed out that China and Russia are an objective security risk. I was at a meeting where Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was, and there were representatives of the security community. They made it very clear. It was the position of our entire security community, but the government didn't want it. Business and various pressures are more important than the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. She may have recovered from Vrbětice and realized that our security community is working well, well, and has a sophisticated and clear view of things. Once again, evidence of the very irresponsible actions of our government against future generations. That's a strategic-security risk. Andrej Babiš created an interesting crooked mirror in our society. You look into it and something completely different comes out of it. Conflict of interest is not a conflict of interest. All you have to do is look in that crooked mirror. His own company belongs to him. All you have to do is look in the mirror, and suddenly his own company doesn't belong to him. They're just parked somewhere, and when he's done in politics, he'll take them again. Next thing. After Hungary, we have the largest number of deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. All you have to do is look in the mirror, and we're number one in the covid. That's how it works here. We have a government of experts. Well, we know how the government is. We know what Minister Arenberger has done in the last few weeks. Again, all you have to do is look in the mirror and out of those chaos and people who have problems with themselves - but it doesn't seem weird anymore, because we have a prime minister here with criminal prosecution and conflict of interest, so what wouldn't have problems with individual ministers - just look in the mirror and the chaos are experts. Prime Minister Babiš himself is a suspected grant fraud suspect. One of the richest people in the Czech Republic needed 50 million crowns from the evil European Union, which would not tell him what to do in his life. You will look in the mirror, and from Andrej Babiš is the biggest fighter with fraud and corruption within the Czech Republic. That's what he tells people here. This is no longer about some partial misconduct of this government. The point is that Andrej Babiš and his government have led our country into a complex, systemic, problem of growing private business with the leadership of this state. That's, like, one more floor above the corruption where someone's been bribed in plastic bags. Here's the system, here's the elaborate system, here's the privatization of our state. Well, that marasmus is moral. Because when government officials push standards, when the Prime Minister has such problems and doesn't take responsibility for it, when the government violates the laws that it proposes and issues itself, when government papalas do not follow its own measures, it is a message to the company. You're the one who's shaping the company, the one that sets standards that, of course, are devastating to the future. Orwell wrote in his book 1984: "War is peace, freedom is slavery, ignorance is strength. For the lie has become the truth." This government is not a government of experts, it is not a government of morality and it is not a government of legality. He's a government of chaos, he's a government of disappointed hope. And, of course, such a government cannot have our support; it cannot have the support of the Mayors' and Independent Members' Club. The Prime Minister here said you formed a coalition to defeat this Babiš. The Prime Minister is an egocentric, everything applies to himself. He's just a symbol of it, he's a head. But we're not here to remove Andrej Babiš, dehonest Andrej Babiš. These coalitions were formed because, at least, our pirát and starosta, to move the Czech Republic forward. To finally turn the page here and get out of a situation where my educated friends are wondering if they even want to raise their children in this country. We want our country back to the future. It's not going to happen today. Today, we will express maximum distrust of this government, which does not have the trust of citizens, which is believed by 19 percent of the people in this country. But that's just the first step. The next change will come as the people in this country decide. Because the people in this country are still making decisions. They will choose a new representation, which will represent them after the parliamentary elections that will take place in autumn. And my great faith and wish is that this representation should turn its back on what the government of Andrej Babiš was doing here, and that we should actually in the Czech Republic finally turn the page and move on to the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, and now Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip will speak with priority, and Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will also be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, it will be three years before the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia supported the trust of the then minority government YES and social democracy after the conclusion of the agreement on tolerance with the ANO 2011 movement. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has never made any hasty conclusions, and it is also in relation to this government. I remind you that our decision was made after more than a six-month constitutional crisis, which the political parties and their representatives, who failed in the 2017 elections, continued to escalate as they imagined. We didn't make any mistakes or make any illusions about the government, which is why we didn't enter it either. Unlike others, we don't just change the program, but we don't forget it, we don't trade it for posts or anything else. Originally, everything was supposed to be different. After the elections in 2017, the current Prime Minister Andrej Babiš offered a coalition to the Civil Democratic Party, but this was not realized. That is why, after the six months' crisis, after a thorough assessment in our member base, the collective bodies of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia decided that it would be better to have a central cabinet in the Czech Republic than to return to power once again to the corrupt right. [[11.20 hours]] Together with experts and citizens, we have therefore prepared a very specific programme, seven points, seven conditions, which the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia demanded of the government to enable it to be legitimately created in order to gain confidence. This was such a transparent process where everyone could and could verify today how the conditions are fulfilled or not fulfilled. And I would like to remind myself of the individual points, so that it is clear where the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia headed and what our citizens have gained thanks to our pressure. The first condition of the communists was the increase in minimum wage. In addition to the koruna exchange rate, it is one of the few tools to achieve that the wages for the same work are paid by a Czech worker, an employee in our country, as well as in neighbouring countries, whether in Germany or Austria is not decisive. We believe that one who works honestly deserves a reward enough to support his family, himself, and, of course, his future with dignity. The second condition was to valorize pensions, so that our seniors didn't have to survive for their life's work, but to make their lives dignified. This is what the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has long sought and sought to grow pensions, which has also been secured. The third condition was the maintenance of natural resources in Czech hands. And it wasn't just lithium at the time, it was other things. And we must remind you that this was an important condition for us not to see again how shamefully it was with the natural wealth that Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic had here. And maybe some of them could tell a story. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia did not want another privatization in the OKD style, when the state at a disadvantage first under the ODS government and then even under the rule of social democracy sold to Bakal mines with 4 tens of thousands of flats, whose inhabitants were left only eyes for crying. But back to terms. I mean, fourth in line. Increasing the public sector's share of water management. We are not yet able to do that, although the Constitutional Water Act has been tabled, but this House has not yet discussed government controls for other laws, other priorities, others, as you say. The fifth condition was the taxation of gifts to churches, for which, while senselessly, the shortcut of the church restitution took place. In doing so, it was just a transfer of money from most citizens of this state to a narrow group of those who wanted to reverse the legacy of reformers such as mistr Jan Hus or Jan Amos Komenský. The sixth condition was to start municipal housing and help municipalities to build it. Finally, the seventh condition was maintaining health care without increasing patients' participation. Although the beginning of the agreement was promising, from the middle of last year some things failed to reach an end and it was not just because of the new pandemic crisis. If you look at the requirements of small municipalities today, their need to build apartments, it is obvious how right the requirement to rebuild municipal and cooperative housing was needed. Sadly, the government stopped making deals, which turned out to be in full nudity when instead of rewarding people, it preferred the future purchase of overpriced military technology. Moreover, as it goes in the Ministry of Defence when purchasing military technology, there are not only countless corruption cases from the past, but also a decision of the Office for Competition with a half-billion-dollar fine, or even more of the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, which this year stated that the system for the purchase of equipment for the military is not effective and is overpriced. Even in the area of the creation of a state bank, which was at least the creation of a competitive environment for banks that are in foreign hands, had a positive impact on the price of banking services, and thus on the wallets de facto of all citizens, the government did not do very well. The courage to create a commercial bank in the hands of the Czech state has so far remained in the plane of promises and empty declarations. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia during the last parliamentary term, when it was resolved whether to extend the contract with the Czech Post and the Czechoslovak Trade Bank at all, pointed out that this was a good time to start working on this matter. At that time, the government under the leadership of the ČSSD, namely Minister Chovanec, despite what social democracy itself had in the programme, pushed through a senseless extension of the contract with ČSOB and banks in the hands of the state, we still cannot wait. In the year of the pandemic, not only the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and I personally, but with me many experts expected that the government would actively look for health savings. And it's obvious that not on people, but on excess apparatuses and administration can be saved. It does not cure itself - the administration - but drains considerable resources from the system. And we, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, showed the government the way, demanded in the first step the merger of two nearby health insurance companies - the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. Once again, nothing is happening and it will not be able to make it to the end of the parliamentary term at this time. I cannot forget the fact that the Ministry of Health and Government has limited the possibility of citizens of the Czech Republic to take advantage of this vaccine in a time of complete lack of vaccines accepted by the world and today in 65 countries applied by the vaccine Sputnik V. The fact that, for political reasons, the possibility of citizens of the Czech Republic to take advantage of this vaccine is scandalous, in my opinion. Well, the chapter itself is a foreign policy area. What the government of YES and social democracy has been doing to citizens in recent days for the applause of opposition parties is perhaps a cabaret. But he wouldn't invent such a thing, not even the wildest Bond writer. I must remind you of the willow. Not more than a month after that scandalous so-called. the discovery of investigators has not yet brought anything new except the total destruction of relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation and the repeated finding that our allies are making fun of us. Because we didn't actually find any allies in Europe and they're gonna let us down as usual. I remind you, so far, so-called. An international arrest warrant has not been issued to those who were supposed to commit the act because of the alleged suspicion of the Security Information Service. And other times critical media took over, along with most political scenes except KSČM, completely uncritically claiming that Rus are terrorists, and done. You know, I have to say, as a lawyer, I'm at least looking at this thing differently. And to come without evidence that I believe the public has the right to know if they are so clear and with such accusations, it really takes either courage or, rather, blind trust in misconceptions. What does that mean? And we see it with our own eyes. Czech companies lose one contract after another and companies from neighbors take their place. Škoda Auto, part of the Volkswagen Group, stood up with the approval of the Czech government against the World Hockey Championship in Belarus Minsk. We don't sell the damages there anymore, and Volkswagen is still selling his production, so the Czech worker is out of work and the profits remain in Germany. We have a false case here, and the Saxon Prime Minister will leave at the same time - perhaps it was well coordinated - to Moscow to provide work for businesses in the neighborhood. And again, our loss and profit abroad. And that's what our right claps for. Sellouts. [[11.30 hours]] Another problem is the question of ensuring energy security and the completion of Dukovan, respectively. Temelín. Our businesses, which have successfully participated in nuclear energy projects all over the world in the past, are being pushed aside and the authors of the attacks on our energy security refuse to respond to how much the future will cost citizens and companies with us electricity if we politically liquidate the competitive environment for this crucial public contract. They're not just scared. The answer is very painful for the citizens. For these reasons, too, as a KSČM, we have made it clear that this government no longer has the confidence of the KSČM. We said it in April. We also declared a tolerance agreement over a month ago. It's just that credibility has vanished. And we're not getting drunk with a roll. But every reasonable person, when they take step A, usually asks what happens next. Well, in this context, I have to look at the other side of those who have provoked today's negotiations, and I must say that in the notion that these people will seize power, I am appalled. You know, I've been through a lot not only in this House. But as a lawyer in my practice, I remember the horror of privatization crimes in the '90s and their consequences on employees of dismembered businesses. As an MP, I remember well what took place in our country between 2006 and 2013. And he's no match for that. Forgive me, not even ten so-called čapí's nests. I think you remember, too, who here like to preach about democracy and morality, as the government of the ODS and the TOP 09 leaning on the never-elected party, rather the obscure society of the people, has fallen. Because it turns out that no unelected clerk with his incredible influence on the then prime minister is essentially capable of ordering anything and military intelligence to run the country. No, of course you're no longer applying for that. I think it's understandable. It's not convenient for you. But your hypocrisy hasn't changed since then. This was manifested during the pandemic. You criticized the government for indebting the state. Yes, that's right. The debt has increased. But what were you planning to do? Indebt our children and grandsons by at least 200 billion more. That was the basis of your proposals, which you vehemently advocated, you interpreted to people, but without being willing to raise your hand for their budget cover. So please stop pretending. Or have you forgotten how you took turns at this counter as a saint on an astronomical clock when you started using this term in the exchange of ministers when the KSČM came to condemn the crimes of privatization? Crimes during which the property of the Czech Republic was stolen according to the lowest estimates worth around CZK 2 trillion? Two trillion that belonged to the people of this country? Who can believe your anti-corruption rhetoric? Nobody. This does not have to be recalled by various events since the already mentioned privatisation of OKD via Opencard, through the shame of the case of Pilsen rights, purchase of pandurs, case Drobil or manipulation of public contracts in the State Environmental Fund, ProMoPro and money deposited in Austrian accounts, case of Mr Besser from 2014, at that time Vice-President STAN, respectively. his apartment in Florida, purchase of CASA aircraft, corruption case at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for ministering to the TOP 09 member Jaromír Drábek with the so-called OK System. And I could go on, but that would be longer than my whole speech tonight. And you want to talk about some kind of fight against corruption? You're ridiculous. You want to get votes for your designs, but you arrogantly think that someone will add votes to you if you don't act and you just insult and patronize others. Don't expect that from us. Finally, the government does not have our trust, but the right-wing parties led by the ODS, the TOP 09, the Mayors and the Independents, the People's Party and the Pirates. Therefore, we will not participate in this useless theatre and we are going to work for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u15	The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will be next with priority, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, this government, in which the ČSSD is propagandized, has never had our trust. And the last year has only made our trust worse. From the beginning, we pointed out, for example, the negative influence of the ČSSD in this government, regardless of the Ministry. The local attitude of the Czech Republic towards Brussels and, in recent times, the US Government Bidenův only increased our distrust. After the Vrbětice case, we are no longer on our knees in terms of foreign policy due to this government, but really in the words of Karel Kryl, we are mouthing the country, so that we are no longer worthy of the Western countries to respond to the indulgence of the Czech government by some more than symbolic caress. Unfortunately, this is the result of the government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement. Under the influence of this government, the self-confident and sovereign policy of our Republic has completely disappeared, and this, as a patriotic party, concerns us very much. The share of the population of the Czech Republic who trust this Czech government fell from 40 to 19 percent year-on-year according to Brussels surveys. I do not underestimate the manipulativeness of the various surveys to record the opposition before the elections, i.e. the right one for Brussels. On the other hand, the data is close to the truth. Outside of trust in government, the proportion of people trusting Parliament fell from 25 to 15 percent year on year. The fact that I mention trust in Parliament is one of the main reasons why citizens do not trust the government. These are the lawlessness that the government has committed by declaring emergency situations and subsequent counter-constitutional measures. And it must be said that the responsibility for the unconstitutional conduct of government and ministries is also borne by those Members who approved the emergency situations here in the House at times when it was clear that the government was using them for illegal, illegal action. As I have mentioned recently, while the chosen ones are getting richer, our countries and citizens are, of course, poorer. Our government and Brusel have one cure for this: to indebt, to hand out subsidies and to make the next chosen ones rich, while the poor and the middle class will pay their debts again. Even professional associations have already noticed judgments pointing to the lawlessness of government measures and pointing out that when dealing with professional unions, the ministers have already agreed that their regulations are illegal, that they will be abolished by the court, but that they will simply wait until they are annulled by the courts. Covid has become a great excuse for the government in quotation marks to trample the Constitution and the fundamental human rights of citizens. In addition, the government has done immeasurable damage. No one now doubts that more damage has been done by the government by its unthinkable and chaotic bans than the covid virus itself. This is shown by economic studies in the world and by comparison with countries that have taken covid as what it is, i.e. another respiratory infectious disease that really threatens part of people, but it is only a small part of the population. It is statistically quite publicly proven that the way Czech government's measures are applied has plunged our Republic among the statistically worst countries on the international scale. That's just a sad fact. The government and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš succumbed to the pressure of hysteria caused partly by the media, when the public played in the uprising of fear and panic of the first league. Of course, there were extremists in the government as Mr Hamáček of the ČSSD, who took the health situation of 15 percent of the population as a chance to cut the human and democratic rights of all citizens to a minimum. To resist such pressure really wanted either great courage, or at least basic legal prowess and respect for the law. If the members of the government did not have the courage to face openly the desire for covido dictatorship, they could simply hide behind the Czech Constitution and Czech laws. That means declaring only what is legal and justified, and if once the court has decided that this or that is unconstitutional, the government should respect that. This means she was supposed to open schools, compare conditions for example for lifters with other public transport, etc. We could name it here for a long time. None of this happened, and the government didn't reflect any judgments. And he can't take any more excuses. [[11.40 hours]] So if I understand in part the fears of artificially induced global and Czech hysteria, then I cannot mention that since last spring we have proposed the best cure for all media lies, and that means doing real, true statistics to COVID-19. So counting not positive, and therefore healthy people, but doing statistics on how many people are really sick. Immediately do autopsies and evaluate the actual share of covid in deaths. Anyone who's gone past economic history at least knows that panic and so-called. The run on the bank will destroy even the healthiest bank. In fact, relatively little was enough to dispose of our health care, which is long-term at or below personnel minimums, and the fact that it lasted relatively unharmed, is mainly given by personal deployment of health professionals, not by the excellent management work of the most responsible. And for that, the paramedics are very grateful. However, in the health sector, there are some who have fundamentally doubted. This is a higher health management, which, at the very expense of those who are in the first line, was buying unnecessary technology, pushing for the artificial occupancy of covid beds by people who did not need hospital care. Thus, those ordinary health professionals who worked often on the brink of exhaustion often received literally only a few extra crowns, while management, in times without tenders, bought for millions of uselessness. But true, the key to that was an artificially induced hysteria that played into the music of all those who wanted to become rich. Do the opposite. Both the media and the government have frightened the positive people, as if they were sick, and even those who have ceased to be positive are still being treated. Health ministers have forever ignored our requests for true information and statistics. Ladies and gentlemen, for your information, in order to heal someone, they must first be sick, not just have one million viruses in them. Despite this, to this day, the government is giving people who had no problem and were not sick in any way as cured. That's a really rough-format scam. Yes, then Minister Blatný finally admitted, based on pressure from our SPD movement, that only a third of people died of covid in violation of statistics, but it was only an estimate. In this spirit, based on the pressure from the SPD to give the government true, real data, the Prime Minister questioned the statistics, but their words once again had no impact on reality. Yes, Mr Blatný announced the creation of a commission that should review death, but to this day, the result is zero, which could be expected for this government, because such a review would be a clear judgment against all those who lied to the public. We know the results of the reign of the ANO and the ČSSD movement. Damages on all sides, thousands of needless deaths, billions of damage, and statistically one of the worst positions internationally. In any case, in their vote on emergency situations or the pandemic law, MEPs from other opposition parties who today call for distrust of the government have contributed to this damage, the fact is that the government is responsible here. Here I would remind you that the SPD MP was the only MP who voted against this so-called 'SPD'. The pandemic law, and right now it turns out that we were right, because the courts have repeatedly convicted the government that the measures under the pandemic law are against the law. Last Wednesday, the President of the Republic, Miloš Zeman, appointed the fourth Minister of Health in the last year. This was done on the basis of the resignation of Petr Arenberger for the ANO movement, who could not explain enough his property conditions for the ownership of large-scale land and a number of properties. Minister Adam Vojtěch returned to the vacancy on the proposal of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for the ANO movement, who resigned last September. Thus, a person whose name is mentioned in the report Jan Hamáček Supreme Audit Office, who confirmed media speculation in his finding that government purchases of medical material, respirators, masks or disinfectants were chaotic, inconspicuous last spring, and some of them obviously corrupted. The Supreme Audit Office noted, among other things, that the overpriced number of items was multiple, the choice of producers and intermediaries was unclear and suspicious. The Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the ČSSD Jan Hamáček and Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch for the ANO movement, who is paradoxically once again Minister of Health, are responsible for these purchases. This is totally unacceptable for the SPD and we demand the political responsibility of these ministers. The whole situation shows that this government is not a government of experts and has failed to cope with the whole situation in the framework of coronavirus. And once again, I recall an international comparison where, provenly, on the basis of international statistics in recent months, we have moved, for example, in the number of deaths in either the worst place in Europe or sometimes the second worst place in Europe. The problem is also that the absurd, chaotic anti-pandemic measures of the government continue. Another wave of government dislodgement came from 31 May following the decree of the Supreme Administrative Court, which stated that April's general measures by the Ministry of Health were illegal. Government measures were contrary to both the pandemic law and the Public Health Act. This measure, decided specifically by the court, applied from 12 April to 3 May 2021 and prohibited people over two years of age from moving and staying outside the place of residence without breathing protection, i.e. without respirators or drapes. Other chaotic measures by the government of YES and ČSSD continue. For example, the chief health worker Pavla Svrčinová said last week that opening restaurants does not mean that the cinemas will be able to sell refreshments. The multiplexes that refused to open, if they can't sell refreshments too, have to wait for further relaxation. And bits are not only culture, but also disco and dance club operators. They can open, but practically only as a bar, because they are not allowed to dance on discos according to Friday's decision by the government. This is ridiculous! We repeatedly claim that flat bans are not a solution. Let's fight the virus, not the people. The government of YES and ČSSD also wants to re-enlist the current meeting of the amendment to the Public Health Act. In this proposal, citizens' freedoms and rights are severely restricted in the case of approval, and the so-called 'in the Czech Republic' is introduced in secret. Covid pas. The SPD will again do everything to prevent this law from passing, as we managed to bring it down in the House last week. In the long run, we reject mandatory testing and vaccination, and we will do our utmost to get everything in our country back to the way it was before this pandemic. Here I would like to point out that the government is creating an atmosphere here, that the normal state is the one that is here today. It's not. The SPD movement says the normal state is the one that was here until last spring, when freedom people could go to work, visit, have fun, just live normally. At the same time, we reject the suspension of travelling to seven countries, including Slovakia, by vaccination, and the total bans are not a solution. Now I will stop at specific programming points and compare this government's programming priorities to the priorities of our SPD movement. Thanks to the SPD's votes, the House has succeeded in increasing pensions every year, and I am glad for that. But the government forgets disabled pensioners. They are one of the main priorities for the SPD, and we in the SPD want to increase not only old-age but also disability pensions. We want to improve the lives of both elderly and disabled pensioners. Here I would like to remind you that for two years there has been a draft law from the SPD pen to establish a minimum dignified pension at the limit of minimum wage, which is about CZK 15,000 a month. And the government is against it! The government's blocking the law. While we are clearly saying that for pensions up to 15,000, they didn't say up to 10,000, it just can't be lived on. The government lives somewhere on Mars, completely out of reality, and blocks the law so that there is a basic minimum dignified pension for all those who have worked years or have fulfilled the conditions of severe disability to have a basic pension at the limit of minimum wage, which is CZK 15,000, and from that amount merited. Of course, we want to keep the merit and we want to keep it. And, of course, from those conditions, it's quite clear that it wouldn't involve any so-called. Inadaptable. [[11.50 hours]] So the government doesn't really mean that to ensure a good standard of living for those citizens who have the lowest pensions. He'd rather add a few hundred bucks just before the election, and that's how he keeps the seniors on a string, I'd say. But the SPD wants to ensure a system-based good living level for disabled old-age pensioners so that they don't have to shake every year what the government adds or doesn't. Of course, we always support the addition, but it's not the system we want. So let's move on to comparing the government priorities and the SPD priorities. The situation with the executions. The government has been blocking our bill for two years to nationalize executors. Prime Minister Babiš, that was the hypocrisy of the highest caliber when he says it was a mistake to privatize executives, and at the same time for two years, his government has been blocking our bill to nationalize executors. As a matter of fact, Prime Minister Babiš, this is a little too much. It's a good thing I'm here, and I can put this on the air. If you're against the privatisation of executors, why are you blocking the bill from the SPD pen in the House for two years to nationalize executors? And you didn't even vote for the government in the government's position. So that's absolutely incredible, as the Prime Minister here said literally not really. The other thing is that here we have our bill to abolish interest rates because it's just immoral, and once again the government doesn't want to support us. Furthermore, there has been a proposal from the SPD for the end of the loan, i.e. a ceiling on the RPSN interest rate, for two years now. By the way, this law applies in most countries of the European Union, including Slovakia. So, of course, those loan shark loans and those non-bank institutions with loan shark interest came to an end. But on the contrary, your government supports the loan sharks and this execution system because you are blocking the law - which, by the way, applies in most EU countries - on the ceiling of the interest of the RPSN. I suspect that it is about 12 percent in Slovakia. Which, of course, is the first degree to keep people from falling into debt traps, because logically, when there's a interest rate of 60 to 70 per cent in non-bank institutions, or there were two judgments about this in Czech history, and I suspect that one was 70 per cent, that there was interest of 70 per cent, and the other was something similar, so of course, logically these people fall into debt traps. What's the problem? Because then, of course, the state can't leave them on the street and those families are being bailed out by social benefits, i.e. of all of us's money, of citizens' money, which is not physically involved. That's why it's a social problem that needs to be solved at a legislative level to actually - because today if I'm set up to earn a bailiff, earn a loan shark, a lawyer makes money, but basically pays a regular citizen out of his taxes, which even has nothing to do with it. And that's the problem, why it needs to be dealt with. So here I compared again - the government supports this system of executions and loan sharks, and we want to stop it. Another difference in programming. The SPD movement has passed a law here, which has been here for three years, on the direct choice and appeal of politicians. The government is blocking again. Another law - referendum. Well, I'm gonna drop by a little bit, 'cause in political programs, some political parties promised voters a referendum before the elections in 2017. It was the pirát, it was the Yes movement, it was the ČSSD, it was the KSČM and, of course, it is the flagship of the SPD movement. And our bill of referendum has been here for more than three years in the House, and all the other parties have blocked it by having four months before the elections, and there will be no referendum again. So you just tricked the voters, all the parties I named. And these are all the reasons why I am talking about this, why we simply do not agree with the progress of this government. So the SPD will simply enforce the referendum law. And by the way, we have already proposed a 14-time referendum here on the withdrawal from the European Union. So that citizens themselves can decide their future in their own country. And you've all blocked this place off again. But we will continue to fight for democracy, for the opportunity for people to democratically decide their future in their own country. By the way, we are already one of the few states, I suspect that there are only two countries in the European Union that do not have a referendum law. This is therefore a really ugly business card for other political parties except for the SPD in terms of their approach to democracy. Another law - my house, my castle. Once again, the government is blocking us. The SPD movement has proposed a law, and it lies here in the House, where we want to strengthen the rights to so-called. the necessary defence. That means, we suggest that when a criminal or some bum simply overcomes some obstacle, e.g. Pierces the window, breaks the lock, so that whoever is in that object at home and defends himself is always in the right. It means, once again, I say break the lock, there's something violent, so in such a moment that when someone ambushes you at home, you or your loved ones, so that they'll always be attacked in the right. And the government's blocking it. And then there's the case. Remember a few months back at Plzeň, when the master was ambushed, a repeater who was convicted of murder attacked on the night of the gentleman who had a secluded cottage, the master shot him in self-defense at night with a legally held gun - and the master is still being dragged to the police if the defense was adequate! So at night, he gets mugged by a parolee who was released for murder, which he didn't know at the time, but why should he know that when he's at home in his private facility, and he's still intrigued. This is indeed an absurd situation where this government simply maintains the state that criminals are favored against decent citizens. And the SPD just doesn't accept that, this. We won't get used to it, because a decent person has to come first. We won't get used to the fact that girls and women, that new fashion has been introduced here on the subway and that purses wear on their stomachs, because if they have them from side or back, they're afraid that they'll be robbed by a pickpocket, that old or older people are afraid to go home tonight. We're just not gonna get used to it. It's not a normal world. The normal world is that a criminal and a robber are afraid, not a decent citizen. Another law where we have different positions between the government and the SPD. We propose to cancel the OSA fees, those are the copyright fees, for all establishments for which music is not a profit. The government's been blocking us the whole time. And I don't understand why the OSA charges are to be paid by establishments, shops, medical facilities, garages, restaurants when music isn't the goal of earning them. I understand if the music club is paying for it. But we want to cancel, and from our point of view, it is also welcome to help businessmen and small entrepreneurs. One of those reasons, by the way, is that the OSA doesn't want to talk and it doesn't want to transparentize its management. We don't know what wages there are, but it's basically a mandatory tax. Despite repeated appeals, they don't want to publish their salaries, they don't want to publish rewards, artists complain that the billing is non-transparable. Well, he's gotta do it in a different way. But the government supports it. The government supports it. On the contrary, the SPD proposes a law to help working people. Next, a flat-rate tax. That's what I was talking about in the House for the first time in 2013. The SPD advocated the introduction of a flat-rate tax for businessmen. And here I am glad, here I have to commend the government, because, after this spring, Minister Schillerová, Minister of Finance, rejected it, the crisis paradoxically helped the SPD's idea of introducing a flat-rate tax for businessmen, which is significantly cheaper and more expensive for businessmen, has passed. But what the government is already blocking is that we are voting on our amendments here to increase the threshold by a little bit so that more small businessmen can fit in. And especially now in the crisis, it is important to support business and all citizens who want to self-employ. It would be good to motivate them. Motivating people to work pays off, that it makes sense, that the state will hold them, that he's on their side. So the proposal to introduce a flat-rate tax for businessmen, the SPD proposal, has already passed here. [[12.00 hours]] Increasing the VAT limit to 1.2 million. Once again, we cannot agree with the government. In neighbouring Poland, Slovakia there is a limit of 1.2 million, 1.3 million. But the government is stubbornly holding it to a million. So instead of supporting small businesses again, to increase it, but in line with what is true in the surrounding countries - I mean, the government isn't watching it, we're watching it in the SPD - so the government is still suffocating the businessmen and small entrepreneurs, and it's stubbornly voting against our proposal to increase the threshold for that mandatory VAT entry. We want to raise it to 1.2 million, and the government's just against it. I think that's right. I say again that even in the neighbouring comparable countries they already have this way to go to the tradesmen and small entrepreneurs. So the difference between the SPD and the government. Next thing. Support for working families with children. Well, here I must commend again - you can see that I am not just criticizing - because thanks to the votes of the government Members, our Member Lucie Šafránková passed the proposal to give workers an increase in encore for children by 200 crowns, so that a total of 500 crowns. And it's already passed through the House, now a month ago. Since we only have 19 Members out of 200, we need our proposals to be supported by other parties. Thanks to the votes of government MPs, the SPD proposal has passed, and it is already coming into force that working parents with children, working families will have a total of CZK 500 child allowance. Raise the discount on the taxpayer. Here again, we don't agree with the government. Because for the SPD, a working man comes first, a decent man and also a working man. Decent people are disabled pensioners, old-age pensioners, students, children and so on, and those working people are a group that we also place a great deal of emphasis on. And we think it should increase the discount on the taxpayer, because it's just a discount on wages, it's a discount on income from work, it doesn't involve any inadaptable ones. And especially now, especially at this time, we need to leave more money in people's purses to the workers. So we don't agree with you here again, because you don't think a working man is that much of a priority. This is an absolutely crucial group of citizens for the SPD, on whose side we will always stand. Cancellation of a super-gross wage. Yes, that had the SPD in the program for a long time. And I must thank two other political parties that we have jointly voted to abolish a super-gross wage. Because it's crucial for the SPD that we leave more money in our wallets to the working people. And even though other governments put it in place at the time, I'm glad that we agreed here that we were able to cancel it, and people really have more money in their wallets. So what bothers us a little bit is that at the same time, there was also this amendment to raise the tax payer's discount so that even those with the lowest income have the benefit, as if the increased benefit, so that they could really feel it more strongly in their wallets. Unfortunately, that didn't go as we imagined. But so every crown for working people in their wallets is good. And unfortunately, we're the opposition party, so we're doing our best. At the same time, I have to say no to the accusations that the Republic has been indebted to it. I think the Czech Republic is in debt here with completely different expenditures. It is indebted, for example, by senseless expensive foreign purchases, overpriced orders. Besides, as the SAO found out here, the government is overestimating contracts. The SAO found out. And then they say there's no money for working people. Well, don't be mad at me. I'm gonna have to turn this down. After all, a decent man and a working man will not pay for theft or misbehavior of government. What logic is that? We're really refusing to do that. On the contrary, there is a need to bring political responsibility, preferably material ones, decision makers, and decent people, at the same time, to meet. After all, a decent working man has no bearing on your decisions. We need to support decent people. Antivirus. Yes, thanks to the votes of the SPD Members, and we are proud of it, we wanted to support the maintenance of jobs and other programmes, so I am glad that the Antivirus system has worked all the time, and we have been at those discussions since the beginning last spring, and that it has worked to the satisfaction of the citizens all the time. So this is also due to the votes of the SPD Members. Double food quality. Yes, I have to commend here, because this long-term SPD program point to sanction, best to abolish the double quality of food, is that multinational Western corporations here are delivering scum under the same packaging and turning the stomachs of Czech citizens into garbage bins. So in the Food Act, we have found a consensus here with the government parties, and we have voted with the joint votes to significantly increase sanctions for the double quality of food. Of course, the fact that they're going to try to go around those chains and that they're going to slightly change the packaging is another thing, but that is unfortunately the result of membership in the European Union, that the Western countries here are making us stupid and second-rate citizens. That worked out well together. So I have to compliment this program point again. What pushed for the SPD, we found common ground here with some government parties, and it went through the Food Act. What didn't pass in the law, and then the ANO movement spooked after the media massage by multinational corporations to strengthen the food security and self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic. One of our main program points is that we want quality Czech food at affordable prices. And even though the ANO movement took a bold stand in the House this spring, and I acknowledged that, the European Union's dictatorship, which puts Czech food at a disadvantage, gave way under media pressure and unfortunately did not pass. And, of course, citizens see that food is getting expensive, because as long as there are Czech apples on the counter of multinational chains, they are at a third price than when the Czech apples run out, see the last year's case. And all of a sudden, when the apples are imported, it goes up to two to three times the price. The same cauliflower and others, I'm talking specifically about last year. This means that as long as there is Czech food on the market, it causes such competition that the prices are available once the Czech food disappears from the market, the competing Czech apple or cauliflower and so on, so immediately the prices are of course more expensive, because everything is imported and the transnational chains are then literally off the chain, because there is no competition anymore. Of course, only food that can be grown can be produced in the Czech Republic. It's just a brief rebuttal of one of those lies that passed through the media. Construction law. Yes, so here I must commend again that we have found agreement with part of the government and passed the law after perhaps more than twenty years, when the Czech Republic is in 156th place in the world in the length of the construction process - at the level of Bangladesh and other super-development countries. Whoever has ever graduated from wanting to get a place of their own, like a house, knows what an incredible Martyrium is. And we've managed to push for the acceleration and simplification of the building process. And I am proud that this is also due to the SPD's votes, because others were just talking, criticizing, alone being in the government for years in the past, and they never pushed for anything, not even a hint of improvement. The result is expensive apartments, the result is the inaccessibility of new housing, large bureaucracy and so on. Of course, there are other reasons why flats are expensive. But only here in a nutshell. Well, of course, the lie that there's going to be a new 13,000 officials and some kind of super office. I don't know why these parties are just here, throwing decent people under their feet all the time, why they're lying. In doing so, they should say fairly that there will only be transformation. It's estimated at 90 percent that it's going to be the transformation of the existing civil servants in the construction offices, and the office is essentially just going to rename it. Then why are they lying? I attended a discussion on TV yesterday with Mr. Rakušan, President of STAN, and Mr. Výborný of KDU-ČSL, and they presented that there would be a new office plus 13,000 officials. But that's a lie. That's a flaming lie. Where else would they come from? Who wants to build an office for 13 officials? [[1000]] The SPD is against this. It's the transformation of the existing ones. So please, it would be good, I know they're four months ahead of the election, but to make the representatives of the Pirates and STAN coalition and the SPOL coalition, that's KDU-ČSL, ODS and TOP, so they don't lie. I know half-truth is one thing, but this is a lie already. I think that's a shame. When they say there's going to be 13,000 new officials, that's not true. And honestly, where would they come from? It's not even real, it's the way to do it. So the law is just a certain shift, and we're happy that we've contributed our voice, and I hope that it will, in order to speed up, simplify the construction process so that people can easily get their own housing. That's what the SPD is about: easier to get your own place. [[12.10 hours]] Let's continue to compare political programs. Ending abuse of doses by inadaptable - one of the key themes of the SPD. Our law has been here for two years. There's a SPD law here for two years. And here I would also like to thank some other political parties, including government parties, because we have finally found some consensus and the law has moved on to third reading, to final reading. So here's a compliment. However, the third reading still awaits us. The election is coming, so I hope you let us pass the law. Members of other political parties have joined the work on the law. I am glad that we have convinced others that this is an important topic, but let's do it before the elections to end on the basis of the SPD bill of abuse of doses that are not adaptable. And let's move the money to decent people. The estimated savings are up to half a billion crowns, and we can give them to decent people right away. Let's move on. Raising penalties for animal cruelty. Yes, I must thank the government parties here because you supported the proposal of our Member, Monika Jarošová, and we have increased - the law already applies - the sanctions for animal abuse. Because animal protection is really very important for the SPD movement. We like dogs, we like pets, citizens have them at home, and we just hate it when animals are being abused here, and it's just ugly. They're mute faces, they can't defend themselves. And we are pleased that the government parties supported Monika Jarošová's amendment to the SPD, and thanks to the SPD, animal abuse sanctions have increased. Cancellation of property tax. So that's the bill that's been lying here since last year's fall from the SPD pen in the House. And I'm glad that the government adopted it and that the real estate tax has been cancelled. We've been trying for a long time. Like I said, it's black and white, it's embedded in the House's system as a SPD proposal before the government started talking about it. We are pleased that we have all agreed on this and that this has also come into force thanks to the SPD. Another thing is, where we are different again - the cancellation of the Senate. Saving three quarters of a billion. The SPD wants to abolish the Senate and at the same time we would like to reduce the number of Members to 81 according to traditional districts. And as the third pillar - the president-of-the House-the Senate - we see today that this should be the bill of referendum instead of the Senate. And we still can't make a deal here. I always hear from the Prime Minister that he wants to cancel the Senate, and then he escapes! At the same time, the possibilities are how to do it, and it's in the hands of Secretary Alena Schillerová. [[He's turning to the appointed ones.]] It just takes courage, Madam Secretary, because you have the budget in your hand. And the President has already said that one way to move this discussion must be to humiliate the Senate's budget. And because when I saw yesterday that instead of proposing laws to support decent and working people in the House, instead of proposing to the Senate, President Zeman discusses whether President Zeman is eligible for presidency, now that people are losing their jobs and companies are failing and people need money, and they have been discussing hours and hours in the Senate, and the result of the discussion was that they want to call off President Zeman, who has received the most votes of all of us politicians in the history of the Czech Republic, no matter what anyone thinks of him, it's just a fact. Whether someone likes him or not. So if this is an exit from the Senate after a long-term discussion with citizens, well, I don't think it deserves any more words. Our voter doesn't want to pay for an institution like that, an SPD voter who, instead of proposing laws to support decent people, just her production in the last month, the only possible visible figment against an ordinary citizen, is such a suggestion. Another thing where we have a contradiction. The SPD movement clearly says no to migration, not Islam. But Prime Minister Babiš here again wasn't telling the truth. After all, you continue to pay the non-profit, which is called the Refugee Aid Organization, that is Mr. Rozumek, who simply supports migration to the Czech Republic, you pay also, other individual government ministries and other political non-profits supporting migration. And the nonprofit - The organization for helping refugees is called, it's always got a name to make it look nice, but upstairs it's like they say, upstairs yuck and downstairs yuck. Or what's the proverb? And I say it literally, it's ew down, because this nonprofit even sued the Czech state, represented two illegal Afghan migrants and sentenced the Czech Republic - so the government pays the nonprofit, she sues the Czech Republic for our money, and then sentenced more than CZK 100,000 to each Afghan migrant for allegedly putting them in another detention facility than she was supposed to give. In the meantime, the Afghánec have already fled and are no longer in the Czech Republic, they are somewhere in Germany. That's really Kocourkov! I say stop funding these political nonprofits. End funding for all political nonprofits. Political, which I promote gender, promote the European Union, multiculty, migration. What is it that brings people into crisis now? People don't want publicity. If they had to choose whether to have a larger pension or to promote the EU here, the choice is clear. Why do you keep going... That's what I said in the introduction. Local, servile policy towards the EU. To please you there and here as well. So here we have a contradiction because the SPD says clearly not migration. And the ANO MEPs vote actively for migration in the European Parliament, for example for a resolution that supports migration from Africa. So here we have a fundamental contradiction. And here we simply disagree with you, with the government, because you support really just migration more or less. Another thing is the euro. So it supports the migration of more people. The quote has already been made here, I have also prepared it because Ivan Bartoš, the leader of the Pirati and STAN coalition, said - I quote: "If Europe is to be Muslim within 10 to 15 years, I have no problem with it." Well, that's an incredible quote! And I'm gonna do everything I can on this quote, so that the Pirate and STAN coalition will never be in government. And here I would like to add that the Pirates and STAN coalition closely cooperates with the SPOLU coalition, which is ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09. So whoever's voting for the SPOLU is voting for the pirát program. It is literally true, because when I think of the expression of Exmissor TOP 09 Dominik Feri, he said, and it is still on the TOP 09 website that the Czech Republic could accept 4,000 refugees. I really don't think so! Euro. The only SPD here in the House is rejecting the euro. We say never! The Coalition of SPOLU is promoting him. After all, Miroslav Kalousek said it was a few months ago that if the coalition of SPOLU in the government - I will name it again: ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL - the euro will be adopted in the next parliamentary term. Miroslav Kalousek, Member of the TOP 09, said it at that time, and it is one of the most important exponents and faces of the coalition of the SPOLU. And the ODS kept quiet about it. He's quiet about it. They should clearly say that they do not agree with these TOP 09 proposals, but they remain silent because silence is consent. You should have made it clear that you had a contradiction in the coalition, that the ODS - if you don't want the euro, say it, but you want it too. So you're quiet. This is an absolutely disparate coalition anyway. They want migrants and the euro and all that. As far as the euro is concerned, it's what most parties here want, except for the SPD. After all, Andrej Babiš, once again I dare to quote him, said now was not the time to accept the euro. When? And when we asked when the time was right, he wouldn't answer. Oh, yeah! Best thing after the election, right? Why doesn't he just say never the euro? Because it's not true. Because, of course, the euro wants the YES movement, and it needs to like it there and there. Not to mention the CSSD. After all, ČSSD openly promotes the adoption of the euro. And when I think of the quote from the Minister and President Hamáček of the Turkish Embassy in 2015, when he said that Islam has an irreplaceable role in the history of mankind. Well, those are really crazy statements, and that's... Well, irreplaceable. Now I don't know what things, the truth. But I'm sure you meant it from a positive point of view, so no. I really don't. And we absolutely disagree with those views that the government has. Justice enforceable by the courts. So I knew it myself when after nine years I won the Reflex magazine trial, which was finally convicted of lies and had to apologize to me. Of lies and insults. They lied about me being Prime Minister Jiří Paroubek's advisor. They lied about me for failing my travel card for stuffed animals. They just made it all up! And for nine years, I was sued through the Constitutional Court, which I also won, and after nine years, the courts gave me the truth that Reflex was convicted liars, convicted liars. And I ask, how can anyone even buy such a magazine if we don't know what other articles they're lying about, because no one seems to have, or few people have patience to judge themselves for nine years? So how can anyone still buy it if people aren't sure, aren't we sure what the next material is a lie? Well, that's incredible. [[12.20 hours]] We are proposing a time-limited mandate, a mandate of judges with the possibility of defending, direct responsibility for proven misdeeds - and we cannot agree with the government here again. You're just blocking it, you don't want to discuss it. People are desperate that justice is not enforceable in the Czech Republic. They're really desperate. People don't even judge anymore, they don't even try to get justice anymore, they've resigned. And you're with the government, the ANO movement has been with the government for 7.5 years with the CSSD, and you haven't done anything about this for people. So, in short, for the SPD, he is a decent man and the Czech Republic in the first place. And we want a normal life for our citizens and our children. We want a confident, sovereign Czech Republic with satisfied citizens. The SPD wants all decent people to have more money in security and justice. Bottom line, as I explained in detail, the SPD's confidence at the moment has neither the government nor the pseudo-position involved in the government's actions. Our vote will be and is consistent. SPD deputies for distrust of the government. At the same time, we recall the great responsibility of those who helped the government in lawlessness. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. For family reasons, Mr Jan Richter and Mrs Jana Levová apologizes for today's meeting for personal reasons. And now Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček has the floor. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have no structured speech, I have listened to some previous speakers, particularly from the opposition, and I was surprised by one thing, and it is that outside the electoral rhetoric of how it will be better, what would have happened if that distrust had actually been expressed. It is true, and it is perfectly legitimate that there may be a discussion of distrust. Just because it's legitimate doesn't mean it's logical. It's very illogical at the moment, and at the moment, it would be crucially damaging. And I'm going to try to explain why those few months would have really hurt everyone concerned, and I dare say most of the population. It wouldn't in principle be illogical if it wasn't at the last minute if it were in the first half of the reign. It's quite legitimate, it's OK. However, at that time either there were not enough votes or there was no courage to do so, or there was no courage to do so. It just didn't work out. And in the second part, when Covid started, the opposition was really holed up, no one had the courage to do anything, no one had the courage to do anything, no one was criticized, no more was shot, which was extremely convenient, especially if it is done in the parliamentary offices and if it is done in a situation where no one bears the final responsibility. And now, a few weeks or months before the election, they come up with the idea of de facto creating an official government. I know you can tell me: there may not be an official government, because the President can appoint this government again, virtually. He can rule in demise. Which is true, but you can't count on it. And I don't suppose, and I don't want to tell you that you did this day just to make a marketing show here. I suppose you did it because your goal is to keep this government out of control. In other words, there should be an official government appointed here. The civil government is equal to a government that doesn't make decisions, which it will do. Not because she doesn't want to, but because she won't have time for it, she won't have a political mandate. And to be honest, he won't have the guts to do it. Why won't he have the courage to decide anything? Why shouldn't she have the courage to decide anything, because the way the discussion is going today, it's very likely that nothing will ever happen, and tomorrow we'll go to work normally. Because it has to be vaccinated, it has to run on a better PCR testing system, it has to secure the covid passports, it has to be sequencing and so on. You can undoubtedly say yes, even officials can do that. You're partly right. But that clerk won't decide you in the finals. Deputys. The Deputys will be cautious because they will be waiting for the next government. And advisors. Counselors, they advise, they like to advise. They like to be in all the media, but in the finals, the advisor won't take any responsibility at all, which I think we've all been convinced of, and I don't blame the opposition at this point. However, let us look at this from an economic point of view. I don't want to be an epidemiologist right now. We've seen this before. Again, the opposition played it nicely, the epidemiological situation. Let's look at this from an economic point of view. What would really happen if the government began to rule for four months? First of all, we couldn't handle the energy laws. Energy laws are absolutely essential for us to have cheap heating here next year by heat for 1.6 million inhabitants, respectively. 1.6 million households and 3.5 million inhabitants. Thank God we managed to get it to the third reading - I am talking about the POZE law now, to promote renewable resources. But the fact that this will go through a difficult discussion, the fact that the minister will have to be there, the fact that the official will not be able to be there, the fact that it will still be passed through the Senate, the fact that it will return to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies, notabene, in a situation where we are dealing with a margin, or let's just say an internal yield percentage, and we're dealing with this crime for 50 years, 2009, 2010, when a megatonel was made here thanks to the Chamber of Deputies - not because of the administrative government, I wouldn't have pushed it, because it wanted to end in March 2010. But the Chamber of Deputies - and look at who voted - moved it to the end of 2010 and allowed a hole of CZK 572 billion to be created here. This is a chance to cancel. This is a chance to reduce, eliminate. And that's what the Renewable Resources Support Act is all about. And can you imagine this law being enforced here by a clerk in the next few weeks? I can't imagine. He'd run away from it. Why? Well, because there's a huge lobby of all the law firms that are walking around in the galleys trying to convince everyone here to make it 9.5%, 10,6 percent and so on. That's what you think the clerk would decide. And if he hadn't, we wouldn't have passed the law. And with that, it would be warm. And next year, we would put 3.5 million people at risk in supplying them with cheap heat, because there wouldn't be a chance to support them. This is also linked to the energy law, which, fortunately, is also in the third reading and which, once again, cannot be decided by an official, however it prepares literate documents. It's about electrocutions, but it's about new technologies, it's about accumulation. And here I dare say that we agreed on this in principle. And we have a law on the transition to emission-free energy, in other words, the Dukovan Law. I mean, nobody wants to believe that if there was an official cabinet here for four months and a clerk at the head of the department, he'd be able to finish this law. Because that's also about political discussion. And now it's just a political discussion. And there's even a chance from the final core committee that this will be over, the political debate, for which I would like to thank at the moment. However, the Dukovany law is tied to one more important thing, which, of course, has a link to the tender that the next government should do, as quickly as possible. And that is that the contract with ČEZ must be concluded for the purchase of electricity. And I already see an official minister signing a contract with ČEZ to buy electricity for the next decades, decades. It's just not possible for an official cabinet to do this. This must be done by the Cabinet, which is responsible for this and which carries all the pluses and the minuses and the risks of making the wrong decision. Yes, you could say that's how it would move. Of course, anything is possible, but then the whole construction, the construction of the core will shift. And it's not just about this. It is about the fact that, in the coming weeks, the European Commission has to play a crucial role, and that is taxonomy. We have to finish the gas. Yes, in these weeks it is decided whether the gas will be supported or not supported after 2025. If we lose this battle, we will be very difficult to transform Czech warming here, we will be difficult to separate from coal, or we will separate from coal. But what happens? We're going to get an electric price, or in this case heating, in a fundamental way. Well, because we won't have enough support for it. And that's not played in two years, three years. That's what's being played about these weeks. And I can imagine how the official minister will handle it on the European Commission's soil. No one's gonna talk to him there. [[12.30 hours]] We have a National Recovery Plan here. Two hundred billion crowns that we have sent in the last days in the form of the National Recovery Plan to Brussels, like most European countries. It took us months to prepare it. Fifty associations, unions, platforms we had to address, dealt with, compromised, 90 comment points. It is the most ambitious plan of the Czech Republic in the last 20 years. Forty percent go to environmental projects, especially related to climate, 24 percent to digitization, there is prevention in health protection, there is an area of digitization of industry, there is a modern way of education. But all this isn't over. Why? Well, because we are waiting for the European Commission to express itself, which should be expressed to all countries sometime at the turn of June, July. And then it goes back. And again, are we living in illusions that the clerk who gets it at the level of the deputy or the official minister will be able to play this across the various departments? No. There's a political decision. So we're going to put the National Recovery Plan in jeopardy, or it's going to shift. So money for industry, money for energy, money for health care won't be in 2021, but it would be in 2022. Gigafactory. Over the next few weeks, we have to decide on support in the order of billions of crowns, which will go into the largest investment of this government, and this is gigafactory - factory or battery factory. Yes, officials are working on it, and it is working well, and everything is going in the right direction, and there is a good chance that we will be one of the European countries that will have gigafactors here. We can probably all agree that this is a step in the right direction. But in order for that step to play out, we have to play it out with the investors. And we need to convince them, including on the basis of investment supply and demand. That means they're offering, we're asking, and we have to give an incentive. And that incentive will be in the order of billions of crowns, and someone has to take responsibility for it. And I'm just asking again if there's gonna be an official minister sitting here for three months, if he takes responsibility for signing an investment incentive in the order of billions of crowns. I dare say not. Support for entrepreneurs. It's not over. CZK 460 billion went to the economy within the covid, of which 330 billion went in support of entrepreneurs. It is true that this is both direct support and indirect support. However, we are still paying off in this direct support. And just so we understand each other. I understand here why the opposition had some concern and why the opposition at the time of the covid was holed up and why the opposition at the time of the covid did not want to take responsibility. I would like to see those ministers signing for tens of billions of decisions in favour of entrepreneurs. We like to support them, but the responsibility of what we have to do is gigantic, and it's never been here in history. Three hundred and thirty billion crowns. On me as minister, not deputy, not officials, is that I have to sign hundreds and hundreds of applications every day. And I like to sign it, and I'm happy to accept that responsibility, knowing that maybe in the future it'll just turn on us and against me. But in any case, it is still up to me, and I am not talking about this now with my colleagues from MPSV and the Ministry of Finance, there is still a signature in the order of more than 10 billion crowns, which are the ongoing support and support that will be paid in June, in July, and perhaps even in August, such as the COVID-Cultura programme. And I can already see an official minister who would take the responsibility for signing this, nota bene in a situation where he wouldn't even be able to go through the substance of those programs and, of course, he wasn't there when they were forming. I wouldn't blame him for not doing it. That's the Ministry of Industry and Trade. At the Department of Transport, I'll start with what wouldn't have changed if the official minister had come, and that's good news. So if it doesn't work out today, the good news is that without the Minister's influence at this point, the D1 will be here because it's so hot that from 2014 to 2021, as promised, it will be done. So did D11, which we've accelerated. Whoever is from Hradec Králové or from around Hradec Králové knows that we have joined the two sections, and it will not be in 2022, it will be in 2021. We're speeding it up, we're accelerating it. And we can also be calm, without the Minister's influence at this time, the D4 will be built on Monday; the largest motorway section that will be built at once in the Czech Republic. For twenty years he was mentioned, the link České Budějovice - Prague or the other way around Prague - České Budějovice, direction Strakonice, 32 km, PPP project, the first de facto lively project that starts like this. He's been here before, but he didn't quite turn out. Yes, nothing happens within high-speed lines. That's right. They've been talked about for many years, they're ready, and no matter whether or not there's an official minister sitting there, there's no stopping the preparation of the drill, and it's good news. Nor will anything change as part of the railroad investments in the coming weeks, in case the minister isn't here. However, other things will change. What's gonna change is that we have a budget problem. And before I get to that budget, I just have to poke one thing out. And that's because it's really record-breaking, and not only is it record-breaking, but more importantly, new buildings are starting. And on those highways, it's very typical. Do you know how many motorways started between 2011 and 2014 on average? Freeways. Initiate. That's important, otherwise someone only inherits it: on average 200 meters a year. Not miles. The motorways started between 2011 and 2014. Overall, it was 800 meters, to be exact, in the four years. And do you know how much it starts this year? Ninety-one kilometers. Not meters. Kilometers. And how much is going on this year? Approximately another 100 kilometers of motorways, of which 46 kilometers completely new and 48 kilometers, that is the D1. So this year we start 500 times as many highways as in the famous years 2011 to 2014. In order not to take you back, in the lineup that was here and did nothing in 2011 to 2014, the wind from the sails, so objectively speaking, between 2007 and 2011, or 2006 to 2010, to be exact, that was the lineup that was here before, so it was built and started. But it's good to see who the contractors were, what companies they were getting, what party the companies were from, and how much they were building. It's been dropped here today, but it's good to remember. For 340 million on average, a kilometer of highways. He's coming in for half today. So it's true that the group 2006 to 2010 was excited about building, the reasons are obvious. The parta that came after that got scared and did nothing just to be safe. So, on average, it may not have gone wrong, but the result is that in the years to come, we didn't do anything here. And that's what the budget's all about. Because I cannot imagine that the official minister at the moment would be able to push through the budget that we need to play at the Ministry of Transport, and that is the budget that will be at the level of nearly CZK 130 billion. Until a year ago he was at the level of CZK 83 billion and a few years ago he was at the level of CZK 50 billion. We are in a situation where we have nearly 130 billion. But it's not easy. And here I am openly saying that we are not yet in agreement with the Treasury, because we understand how difficult it is to put the budget together. So we've got a little bit below what we want today, but I believe we're going to get back to that, and that eventually we're going to get 130 billion crowns of the transport infrastructure budget, which we have today. I'm just saying, it's three times as much as they wanted to build here -- they didn't end up building them -- the routines before. What is perhaps good to recall is that we have prepared a comprehensive safety solution for railways at the Ministry of Transport. It's not a question of one year, it's a question of another ten or fifteen years. But my ambition was for this government to agree to give this government a clear ETCS timetable. And again, what's it about? It's about us deciding on tens of billions of crowns. And again, I just want to point out that I can't imagine a minister who is an official minister deciding that. He would have moved on in good faith. So the next government wouldn't have a ETCS system in place, it wouldn't have a rail safety system here, which we've been working on for a year, a year and a half. You can say you should have done that by now. I'm not talking about what we've done and what we've done. First of all, you know that. And next thing I know, I just don't want to be the guy here who's just gonna say what's been brilliantly done. I'm just saying what's left to do. And we have a few months left. Partly because he was a covid, partly because it's just a regular time, and that's just what it's supposed to be, at the time. And all these things I'm saying here are manageable. [[12.40 hours]] We can still talk about the fact that we want to start the sailing stage of Decin and will go to the government in the next few weeks, but I don't want to tire out and stall. I'm just gonna mention one thing. I find it quite disgusting what some Members have said here in the sense of: see how many are dead. It's not disgusting to the government. The government must count on him to be under pressure. The government must count on it to be criticized, and the government must count on such attacks to come. It's disgusting to the families of the survivors. You take them hostage, you have no other argument against the government, so you argue this. And you have a very short memory, because at a time when the crisis was at its greatest breakup, at a time when there were 15,000 people who were infected every day, at that time we stood here with a hat in our hand and humbly begged to prolong the emergency situation. That's when you guys did it, you didn't allow it to prolong the emergency. And if it weren't for the state-building of your colleagues from the regions who threw you through the window and stood up for a rational solution, a solution such as to prolong the emergency situation and allow a pandemic law to be passed, there would be a total apocalypse here today. Please don't forget that either. Well, at the end of the day, Mr. Bartoš said that it seemed like a lost future to him, and that even the blood in his veins would freeze when he imagined that this government would still be here. Or even an interest group that said so. I confirm that blood is stiff in the veins - especially industrialists, because when your antennae, which you have nominated for the short term as Minister of Finance, Mr. Wagenknecht, have declared that they are ugly boxes outside the city that we tax, then we digitize them and then paint them on greenery, so the blood in their veins is solid. We have a few months to keep this from happening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u19	The President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka will now perform with priority rights. I'll read the order of priority rights so you can keep track. Chairman of TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, as last so far Minister of Environment Richard Brabec. I'm just gonna let you know that I'm gonna call out a break at 1:00 p.m. by 2:30 p.m., and then we'll continue. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President. I was going to say, Prime Minister, but here are the remains of the government, and I confess before I start saying my contribution to this serious subject today, so because the Prime Minister has come here and I was looking forward to speaking to the Prime Minister of this government, and I have a lot of things that concern him, so I'm going to allow myself here to put a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u21	Yes, we can vote on that. [[Gong.]] I'll check you out. [[Voices off the microphone.]] Yes, yes, I'm going. I'm already gonging. I've been gonging a few times. I'll check you out, all of you, sign up with your voting cards. Once again, I know that there was a request quickly, but I will be fair, I have begun, let the Members come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u22	[[Members call from the bench: He's here.]] He's supposed to be here... It's nice that the Prime Minister swore, but he's been here the whole time. [[Voices from the diaper.]] We're not yelling at each other here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u23	The Prime Minister is already here, but since the procedural motion has fallen, I would have let him vote. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Well, it's unvoteable because the Prime Minister is here. Okay, we don't have to vote anymore, so... All right. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u24	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister, for coming, and I'd be happy if you could hang in there. [[Rush in the hall.]] Otherwise, I'm gonna have to repeat the procedural proposal because I think it's good for the Prime Minister to be here at this point. I don't want to talk to empty benches here, I don't think it's just some bag guy. I consider it a moment when the government and the government coalition are to account not only for this House, but also for the entire public. When I listened to your speech, Prime Minister, I felt that they could envy us in Austria, Germany, Japan and many great states, because I felt that we were one of the best countries in the world, and you could do everything best for us, our citizens. I was wondering if such words, such rhetoric... [[The Prime Minister is speaking with Minister Dostálová.]] I'll wait for the Prime Minister to deal with the Minister... If such rhetoric and such words were to be voted by first-class politicians... Thank you... the first-class politicians you mention as often as Masaryk, Rašín, Kramář, Švehla, if that's the way they would talk about how to manage and govern this country. I confess, I have a very different view of how things have worked in our country lately and for your premiering. When I talk to people, to the citizens of this country, today they see a government that has record overpriced purchases of protective medical aids throughout Europe, the SAO report also points to this. We see here purchased needles, at the last minute, pointless ones that haven't been used at all. We see the untapped capacity of domestic companies, where the protective equipment that was purchased - and I understand the purchases in March and April that they were looking where they could be, I will not contradict it, but I do not understand why we could not, or your government, reach out for those other purchases, for the second, third wave of the domestic company, involve them in the support. Entrepreneurs came to me and said: Well, we got some minimal subsidy, but we needed the support to buy from us as a government. And you didn't do that. When I look at your government's assessment of your parents, widows, widows, seniors, this is where great numbers came in - I'm gonna get to them and I'm gonna come back - but you're talking about these apartments... [[The Prime Minister is speaking with Secretary Schiller and Dostálová.]] I'm really not gonna bother you guys to have a little government team meeting... [[Secretary Schiller apologizes.]] Thank you. When I'm talking to the mayor, you're here, Prime Minister, talking about the apartments. Where are the apartments? After all, in recent years, the whole allocation has not been exhausted, because the conditions of the Ministry of Regional Development have been extremely difficult. When I repeatedly proposed a legislative proposal here to support widows, a widower who would support seniors who have ridiculously low pensions, especially mothers who raised children, you repeatedly swept the proposals off the table. Your government coalition. You guys were talking here, and the Treasury Secretary was giving such a nice graph, if I'm not mistaken, of the Prime Minister's government about how the pensions were growing. I'm gonna have to put some real numbers on it, because it's only nice to talk in absolute amounts, but it's important to bring it to the real economic situation. And I'm going to say a few comparisons here, what is and was the amount of pensions against the average net wage in each year. Well, just for the record. The highest pension ever against the average net wage was in 1991, it was 73.7 %. Then there are interesting moments, for example. In 2011, it was 54.8% of the amount of pensions to the net average wage of that year. Then came, say, the peak of the last years, and it was 54.7 %, in 2014, the pension was to a net wage. And when I look at 2019, it is 51.5 percent pension in the Czech Republic on average wage. So the absolute numbers that are said and presented are great, that it's growing - yes, it's growing logically, it's growing, the whole economy is growing, corporate bills, citizen bills are growing, but that doesn't mean that it's increasing the living standards of seniors. Given inflation, which is really very high, this really means that the real net income of those seniors is lower than it was in some of the previous years that I mentioned here. Let me just remind you that the growth in pensions, the fair valorization, started our previous coalition government with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. [[12.50 hours]] Then we can also look at how entrepreneurs assess this government. I'm going to ask the Minister here - she, I've noticed, not only the Vice Prime Minister and the Finance Minister is playing a role here today, but she's holding various posters here, so if she could hold this one poster here too, who most indebted, which minister and minister, and increased the debt of the Czech Republic. I'll give it to you here, Madam Secretary, and you can hold it if you want. [[She's handing over the chart to Secretary Schiller, she's putting it on the bench.]] There's a record increase in the Minister's work - the Minister's not holding it, that's a shame - for Secretary Schillerová. I'm going to say, of course, realisticly, that I perceive that this is the time of covid. I understand that the government had to do a lot of spending and action. Any other government would have to do it. But what's the big deal? That when we look at the overall deficit last year, only 37.5 percent of the total deficit that was created went to help entrepreneurs, households, the direct aid related to the covid. When we look at this year - January to May this year - the deficit of over 250 billion crowns. And if we look at how much of that part goes back to those things that relate to covid, that's about half of it. So the record column you have in there, it can't be attributed to the fact that it's a covid-related measure. It is the spending of this government that is growing and growing. Just for the record, when we look at the budget plan for next year, the first meeting that started, almost all the resorts, except for a few exceptions, have increased there. Where there is some logical effort to have an effective state here and say to ourselves, we are able to save where it does not affect citizens negatively - in the area of social, health, school, key investment. When you go through that inventory of the resorts, virtually everyone's expenses go up. I asked the Minister of Culture. I was surprised that perhaps the Ministry of Culture is one of those where expenditures rarely increase - minus CZK 1.4 billion, if I remember the number correctly. Where's the logic, the balancing and some government strategy that would say "we really need to invest here, and not just hand out and increase the government's mandatorial spending"? In addition, I would like to borrow the Czech Government's Program Statement. It's really reading, when you read it three and a half years ago, you thought, "This government is going to move us somewhere else." But it just stayed with the written text. Because I will read you one part about the state's finances and management: we will support long-term economic growth. We respect the rule that any deficit must be lower than the level of investment from national sources. We will also stabilise state debt in the long term in relation to GDP and keep it at a low level. - Unfortunately, it remained after the situation, when there really is an end to some of the support of companies and households at the time of the covid, so it remained with the declaration. Because if we look at the government's medium-term plan for the next three years, then the government cuts the draft state budget deficit almost every year. Another minus 300, minus 300, minus 300, minus 300 billion crowns. Who's gonna pay for this? We'll pay for it, our children will pay for it, and our grandchildren will pay for it. And the Minister is repeatedly telling us here: we have sound finances, the lowest debt within the European Union. And an uninformed person might feel like we're in a good place. But the Minister would have to put these things in context and at the same time admit and say: this relatively low debt here is due to the good management of cities, municipalities and regions, but not thanks to the Ministry of Finance. And I'm gonna ask one more thing when government officials are always showing numbers and graphs here. Please, when it suits you, you say it as a percentage, as a percentage of GDP, or in absolute amounts. I told you about a year and a half ago. Let's make a deal to say it in both of those values. Not just how it fits the interpretation. And when you're showing these graphs, you're pointing the x-axis from zero to zero. Not that you cut it off, and now you're just gonna put in the growth that suits you. So there's so many notes on how citizens, families, maybe businessmen judge it. Entrepreneurs who are still waiting for their help today, entrepreneurs who have often not received it at all. When I talk to entrepreneurs in the culture sector, Madam Secretary and Minister, some of them received CZK 60,000 last year. They have families, they have wives, they have mortgages. In fact, even the government was contemptuously communicating with them when the Minister of Justice was telling us to the nation that every businessman should be in the balance, he's supposed to have the cotton wool. This is not done by a normal government and a government that values citizens and taxpayers. I'm sorry the Prime Minister left anyway and he's not listening. Because he was talking about him investing, he arranged, he gave money. A politician is supposed to have respect and humility for money management, because it is neither money nor prime minister, nor government, nor legislators. It's the money of the people of this country. We only manage them, and within our competence, we have to direct them fairly where they are needed. Not me, me, me. No, I brought money from abroad. The money is again investors who decided to invest in the Czech Republic. But not for the pretty eyes of this Prime Minister. So a little more humility and more feet on the ground when you talk about what money and where they're going. I'll take the liberty of responding to a few other things, too. I'm not going to be on all of them, but some of them were actually remarkable in what the Prime Minister said. He was talking about him and his government making tax changes by reducing some taxes and stuff. The government suggests it, the House approves it. I have even brought here an inventory of all the amendments tabled by KDU-ČSL over the last 14 months. [[shows boards with supporting documents]] The Prime Minister lied here when he said you weren't doing anything, hiding, hiding. No, we were standing here on March 20th, giving a lot of concrete proposals to help people. To part-time people, people about deals, businessmen, we were dealing with a compensatory bonus. It's all here. It is not true that the opposition did not work. We were working. The designs are over 120. It's a shame that you didn't make some proposals sooner, because that help could be directed to people much sooner, more efficiently. I remember those completely unnecessary discussions about the amount of infirmary for my parents. It took you weeks or months to agree that 60 or 70 percent isn't what replaces a loss of income for parents when they have to be home by choice, which isn't their own. There have been words that the Prime Minister has arranged to reduce the VAT to heat. I will just remind the Prime Minister that the proposal was submitted two years ago to the Economic Committee by Mr Jurečka and other members of the Economic Committee supported it. There was a debate about the Prime Minister saying what a great investment plan he had. The investment plan is so great that some municipalities and cities have learned that they will have an investment in the form of a winter stadium that they do not need at all, while they need a swimming pool for years. The investment plan was not really prepared with municipalities, cities and regions according to the needs of people in those regions. It was written in Prague and it's not supposed to look like that. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, who has also unfortunately left, spoke here about the great construction of highways and railways. I'm just gonna say a few things. When the D11 was mentioned here, the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister should say fair and square: thank you to Minister Prachař and Minister Jurečka for solving the unblocking of the land so that the highway can be completed. I'm not saying that because I want to brag. That's what I'm saying to tell you what reality is and who was there then to move things forward. [[13.00 hours]] When the D4 came out here, I'm going to remind you that the PPP project on D4 was started by Sobotkův's government. Sobotkův's government put him down to take this step, the other ministers worked it out, and Minister Havlíček was in the finals. Again, this Chamber of Deputies approved it. Virtually across the political spectrum, we agreed that we support the project. So many things. When the Vice Prime Minister spoke about how well she regulated gambling, I would like to remind myself that if we want to talk about who was behind gambling regulation, who ended Europe's casino, he is Ondřej Závodský's lawyer, who worked at the Ministry of Finance for four years as deputy minister Andrej Babiš, whom Minister Schillerová fired from the Ministry in violation of the Civil Service Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u25	Well, Mr. Chairman, I'm gonna have to interrupt you because it's 13 o'clock. I'd just like to remind you that I'm gonna put out an hour and a half until 2:30. I will also mention the order of priority rights: so the chair of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka will continue after the break. Vlastimil Válek, Lubomír Zaorálek, Richard Brabec. I wish you a good taste and I'll see you at 2:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue our adjourned 106th meeting. By the time we get back to our meeting, I'm going to introduce you to the note cards that are here, and I'm not sure they've been read yet. So, Minister of Justice Marie Benešová apologizes from 13:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Staněk apologises between 14:30 and 23.45, i.e. until the end of the day, for family reasons, Mrs Levová apologises for today's meeting of the House for personal reasons, and Mr Richter apologises between 11:00 and 13:00 for family reasons. And now we will continue with the interrupted point, which is the motion to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic, was interrupted in his speech by President Marian Jurečka, then with the priority right of Mr Válek, then Minister Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Mr President, of course I have every desire to re-run the procedural vote to interrupt that point to the Prime Minister's presence, but I see that the government is having a hard time here, like many other things, and apparently the Prime Minister is not interested in clear arguments based on the facts, so I will do a little recapitulation of what has been said. I mentioned here in the previous part of the speech that the government is presenting a lot of numbers that look awful nice at first sight, but the real efficiency and impact of these numbers are no longer. Just when we look at the purchasing power of seniors, seniors, the purchasing power has been significantly larger in the past, so the prime minister here can't say that because of raising pensions, when the amounts are rising, so that the seniors would be better off today. There are certainly no better seniors who raised children, especially mothers. I have repeatedly given the KDU-ČSL proposal here to straighten out the injustice of the past, because these people have sacrificed much of their careers in favour of raising the future generation that is dragging the system on their shoulders today. Just as I made a proposal to increase widow's pensions, to adjust when and under what circumstances the widow's and widow's pensions are paid. Then, of course, there were a lot of nice graphs. I'm here to ask the Minister to wave the charts to the Prime Minister, if she could also hold this one graph for a moment, which is also very true, that is the graph about increasing the debt of the Czech Republic. [[shows]] Because she and Mr. Babiš, when he was still a finance minister, wore it and said how great they were, and here only with all due respect and respect for the fact that this government dealt with the problems of the impact of the covid, which I am aware of, and every reasonable person understands, so it should be recalled that about half - half - of the record debt is not spending on solving the covid situation, helping companies, helping businessmen, helping families. These are increasing expenditures of individual resorts. And if we look at the outlook for the next year and the next two years, this government is counting on further deficits, each year a deficit of more than CZK 300 billion. It's not normal. It just can't be managed like this, it can't be indebted to future generations like it's happening now. And then I looked at some of the other things that the Prime Minister mentioned here, and I have to put it plain here: obviously he wasn't telling the truth or lying. I'm gonna touch some of them, even though I don't like to do it. When he was talking about health care, how he swept some people out of the past, and the last act of personnel at the Health Department, apart from the rapid exchange of ministers, has already been heard here several times today, the result is simply that its director is returning to the Royal Vinohrady University Hospital. The director, who was able to rent his property to this hospital, each year had a million crowns of income from it when it came to it, said: and now we will put it behind the symbolic crown. So I'm asking the members of the government if you think it's normal - I don't think it's normal - and if the rent for the symbolic crown is going on now, or if it's back on that million crowns. And most importantly, I think that every normal person thinks that just a person like Mr. Arenberger isn't going to be director of the Faculty Hospital anymore, that it's not just a matter of conflict of interest, it's a non-ethical act, an uneconomic act that he's been doing. And then there's the last case called. Two clicks. Instead of telling the Ministry of Health and Government which regions hospitals need the robust health system for which the European Union is sending the money to the Czech Republic, the 20 billion crowns, it simply wins the double-click here and how who managed to set it up well on the IT platform to make it happen. Again, it's not the normal government. Reasonable government doesn't behave like that. So much for the health report. We're really, really amused here, but she really entertained the mention of what the Prime Minister said in relation to sports, how he was able to start cool programs here right now, Cabin and all that. I think the public knows above all the program of forbidden release, goal to their own goal and 12,000 crowns for one powerpoint presentation. This is probably the last known program under the leadership of Mr. former director of Hnilička at the National Sports Agency. It's just an accurate example of how professional leadership isn't supposed to work, which is supposed to be effective and simply uncooperative, it can distribute money fairly where it needs to be. There's still one repeated lie that the Prime Minister has told me several times when he's going to the mayor of Uherský Hradiště, when he's talking about this unhappy prison and he's putting himself in the role of the greatest anti-communist here. So it is necessary to remind the Prime Minister, and here I will ask the members of the government: Do you know who owns the prison that your Prime Minister spoke of? What's the property in? [[Notes from the diaper.]] Maybe the Minister of Culture. Minister, if you may nod if you know what the hospital is in - not the hospital, but the prison, the former prison in Hungary Hradiště. It's state property! And it falls, for many years it fell under the Ministry of Justice, then under the ÚZSVM, which falls under the Ministry of Finance. So the Prime Minister here will train the mayor of Uherský Hradiště, who has nothing to do with it, it's not in his property, and for eight years it's a portfolio of his ministers. So where are we? So, Prime Minister, wake up! It's your shame, and it's a disgrace to the regime that you personally supported. [[Notes from the diaper.]] - No, let's not go away. [[Response to screams:]] Let's not go. And don't yell at me, sign up later and respond to me in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u28	I ask for peace in the hall, please don't shout at each other, the number of entries is still long, so please be patient, calm so we can see it sometime. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u29	Thank you, Mr President. I'm getting close to the end. But I still have a lot of lies to deny. The Prime Minister here was talking about barking calamity and my involvement at the Department of Agriculture, and that I didn't give a damn about it, that I didn't do anything about it. So, Prime Minister absent, in 2014, investments directly into forests, forests, CZK 565 million, in 2015 - CZK 902 million, in 2016 - CZK 1.1 billion and in 2017 - CZK 1.2 billion. Add to this every year the investments of the Forests, the state enterprise of the Czech Republic, investments over CZK 2 billion each year. Don't lie! I'm sorry I wasn't much tougher on you back then to say that there wouldn't be such high contributions from the Forests of the Czech Republic to the state budget. You, as Treasury Secretary, walked around saying how badly the state budget needed them. This was my fault for sending you away! And you were a member of the government back then. You're criticizing today, and you didn't say: there should be more in those woods. You never said that! So now don't rub your nose in here and tell me how awesome you are and how you saved this place. When I look at the subject matter of what this debate should be about today, this fulfillment of the government's programming statement. And here, if we go through each chapter, let's see - one of the first promises: we want pension reform. Where is he? Where is the righteous pension reform? I remember Andrej Babiš standing here in 2014 as Minister of Finance and saying that he would present a pension reform within two months. The deed has escaped. [[14.40 hours]] When we look at other promises - digital Czechia. I remember two years ago, discussing how cheap digital data will be. What's the result? What changed? Nothing's changed at all. Digital coverage by fast internet. What changed? Nothing's changed at all. You're still taking the Prague-Ostrava train, and your signal is falling out in exactly the same places. I'm not even talking about the speed of data. So again, zero. When we look at these things about state reform - a balanced state budget. The fact that he wasn't possible in a covid, I understand, I'm not criticizing that. I'm criticizing where the money went. And I criticize now and rightly that for the next three years, the government will resign in its medium-term perspective towards some consolidation of the public budget. There was a debate about how the state turned usury and execution. Let's just remember that. Who turned usury? This was essential in the last period of the Chamber of Deputies on the proposal of a KDU-ČSL member, Jaroslav Klaška, which significantly reduced the possibilities of loan providers and loans. The amendment to the CNB Act contributed to this. And by the hundreds of entities that fell out of the market, the market narrowed down. Execution. Who's dealing with the most executions these days? Government, government proposals? Well, look at whose designs these are. These are the proposals of two Members, Patrik Nacher and Marek Výborný. They're the ones who dealt with the question of executions most today. And speaking of territoriality here, the chair of the ANO member's club, Jaroslav Faltýnek, and his interests, are hindering this matter from being resolved in a reasonable way. And if we look at the chapter Safety, Land, Environment, for example, let us see how the interests of water and soil in the Czech Republic are protected. [[shows publication]] It is intended to permit mining in the Uherského Ostroh locality for 130,000 people. After consulting with MMR, the Ministry of Environment will launch an industrial zone in Hněvotín on 42 hectares of the best agricultural land and we will stop it after changing the regional leadership. These are the real results of this government's programming statement! That's what the debate is about today. Paper can take anything. Real politics is significantly different. And I could really keep going. And I understand the words that were said here when the Minister of Industry and Trade, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, said we shouldn't talk about the number of deaths here. But it is necessary to look the truth in the eye. Here's the comparison. [[It's showing a graph.]] Czech Republic versus OECD countries. Czech Republic blue curve, OECD country red curve. The Prime Minister said the other countries couldn't make it. So this is where the data says how the countries handled it. I'm not saying it was easy, but other countries made significantly less mistakes. And while we're talking about a fair state, I don't think it's normal for a man to be in prison, in a situation where there's high-quality prison medicine, for Mr. Janoušek to be running around on skis and on freedom, instead of being in prison. I'm sure that's not normal. If some of you are applauding this, members of the YES movement, it's your business card. It's a sad business card. And let me conclude with the recap. For me, the word "trust" and "confidence" of someone is that I'm capable of giving responsibility to that person and trusting him with the most precious thing I have. That it is not just a question of the constitutional act that the Constitution knows, but it is indeed a full delegation and expression of trust. And there is no trust in my or KDU-ČSL government, which forgets the really necessary. Who lets weeks and months swam around in the immense uncertainty of singles, people on deals, people who do business and want to make an honest living, pay off their commitments, they're in debt. Who forgets those seniors who have really long-term low pensions, even though they worked honestly in their lives, have done a lot of work for this company. Who I forget about widows and widows. Which does not support quality education. Who's gonna stick with a proposal that's gonna make it clear in the future what teachers' salaries are gonna be. A government that owes and can't save in a country can't have the confidence of reasonable people. For me, a government that doesn't support families can't have trust. Here it says in this government's programming statement: we will support families, especially in the form of increasing tax discounts. [[shows]] Not one or one such proposal by the government coalition brought into this House. All the proposals for increasing the discount on children were put forward here and finally we were able to vote thanks to other reasonable Members and Members, so they were from the KDU-ČSL workshop. You wrote it there, the Treasury Secretary never brought it to the House as a government proposal. And there can be no trust in a government that can't defend our interests with our partners and allies. I'm looking around now, I don't know what the Minister of Justice says about the participation of ministers of this government in the last year at the European Councils. [[The Minister of Foreign Affairs is responding off the microphone.]] Sorry, for the Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you for that. It's good that you listen to me, I appreciate it. In the last year, the participation of the ministers of this government in Radách is 40 percent. So they're defending the national interests well here from this counter, at this microphone, and this is what they're saying, and if you look at the statistics on the key negotiations where these ministers are supposed to be, you're at 40 percent. The Chancellor is the Minister of Justice - and now correct me - she hasn't been there once. I assume the Secretary of State is monitoring the statistics. Does that seem normal to you? Well, it doesn't seem normal to me. So for us, for KDU-ČSL, for myself, I'm clearly saying, we can't really say trust in such a government. The fact that today it is decided again in advance, after President Vojtěch Filip here gave a 15-minute flaming speech, when he told us here what bothers him about the government, how the government betrayed them, and then finally he said, "We're leaving, we're taking short shirts and we're going to go sunbathe somewhere on America, or where they went, to Karlštejn, the Communists." So he said they were going to work with people, and I heard the story a little differently. But I simply do not consider it a normal responsible approach to the exercise of the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. So thank you for your attention. I wish there was a much different government, a government that truly deserves trust not only in this House, but also in people who will trust it. And I hope that in four to five months we will be able to be here in a situation where such a government will come forward, and such a government will gain such confidence and take good, reasonable steps for the benefit of the citizens of this country, for the benefit of all of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. And in priority rights, President Válek will continue, and Minister Zaorálek will prepare himself. [[Laughs of several Members.]] Quiet in the hall, please. And, Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u31	Mr President, thank you. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, there have been a lot of facts, a lot of data that are very sad. I'm having some déjà vu. At eighty-nine, when I was on Wenceslas, so was the Prime Minister, or then the country's chairman, then Milouš Jakeš, pretended that from his point of view the reality was completely different from that of a large part of the citizens. And then we had a new president, and he said in his memorable New Year's speech that the country wasn't doing any good. That the earth is decaying. That the country is far worse off than the government thought. We're in the same situation today. Earth really doesn't do any good. And I don't see the future in health care. And that's the area I'm really interested in. I care as a doctor, I care as one who cares about patients. I'm very interested. [[14.50 hours]] Four exchanges of health ministers in six months. Yes, we've heard the criticism of Bachelor Šnajdr. This government pulled out a stronger trump, pulled out Professor Arenberger. A snail could learn from him. He would have been his pupil, because history in health care is completely uninteresting against what he has shown. Yes, the government added to the elderly. Yes, the government added several hundred crowns at the end of the year before last. But she didn't tell them what to expect anymore. She didn't tell them they couldn't get along, she didn't tell them that the hospital was about to collapse, she didn't tell them that they were gonna crack the ICUs in the seams, she didn't tell them that healthcare for other citizens would stop working, that the screening programs would collapse, that the waiting times for hip joints would be extended for several years, and that she still had no plan to do anything about it. I repeatedly point out, please, to the Health Committee: what are we going to do about it, let's make a deal. And what's the answer? [[Unintelligible notes from the diaper.]] Right. Silence. That's the answer. What's the plan? None. Okay, I was hoping to find that strategy in the plans of health insurance companies that they prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. What's in the plans? That there will be no money for central treatment, that health care payments will be reduced. Is that the long-term plan for Czech citizens? Is that the bright future the government is offering them? I think it's a very, very sad business card. I have always tried to debate constructively here, I have always tried to support the proposals of those Members who have submitted them, and they have been reasonable. And I'm not ashamed to name Professor Vyzula, I'm not ashamed to name my colleague Patrik Nacher, we agreed on a number of things, and we supported a number of things that were for the benefit of the citizens. But as a business card is the advantage of functioning not his as some self-proclaimed pash, which decides on the basis of some of his obscure recommendations, thumb down, thumb up, but is the business card as the last doctor, the last sister at his clinic, whether patients are satisfied, should be the business card of the Prime Minister, how the government works. Not me, me, yay, me. But what we heard here in the Prime Minister's speech. Me, me, yay, me. Nothing else. What's the reality of me, me? Four replaced health ministers at the time of the crisis. They didn't replace the opposition. They didn't recall the opposition. The Prime Minister swapped those! He chose top experts, thoughtfully, strategically, to make it the best benefit of our citizens. And what's the reality? Everyone can see that. Everyone experienced it day after day. All these reasons are why this Prime Minister and this government cannot have my trust. It's a shame. It's sad. But if I think about the future of this country, if I think about the future of my children, there's no other option here today. And I'm sure the future will be right for me, and I'm sure that after the election, there will be a government that will start moving this country in a good direction so that we can really get better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Let's keep going. Now Minister Zaorálek, with the last priority right before the debate is opened. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u33	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, imagine when I was 12 years old, my parents decided to go to Prague. That was my very first trip to Prague, I'm Ostravák. Until then, the furthest I could get to Radslavice near Přerov. And now all of a sudden, at the age of 12, we even took a train to Prague. That really was a great experience of my life. On that train, you can't imagine, I was still reading the last things about the history of Prague, at the age of 12, and when we arrived here at the tunnel, I was lying in that window, and for the first time I saw the capital of the country. So I really remember this tonight because it was a very impressive thing for me, and I feel like everyone in that compartment was having fun watching me, these strangers. Now imagine what else my parents had in mind. They, when we arrived in Prague, we took a tram, drove me to the Exhibition Centre, and there we visited Maroldův's panorama of the Battle of Lipan. And I confess to you that it reminds me of the skyline of the battle at Lipan, which I also remember today. This is where the battle was supposed to take place today, quite crucial to the government's trust and distrust. And do you know what the skyline looks like? There's the historical one, it's said, the betrayal of Jan Čapek z Sány, who, when the battle forces were assembled against each other, the Jan Čapek z Sány, his ride just suddenly retreated and retreated to Cologne. Petr Čornej writes that it was - not that it wasn't treason, that it was a cold-blooded professional profession. Which is quite convenient, you might say, even here. Even here, after the battle was sewn up in the morning, we witnessed a cold-blooded approach by professionals towards Cologne, or I don't know exactly where they retreated to. Which can be said to me that, as in the case of the Lipan battle, the battle is probably already going in a certain direction, let's just say this radical side here, which is talking about the truth and wanting to chop heads, so obviously, today the heads aren't going to chop. And I'm trying to understand why we're here today. Because distrust of the government is an institute. I suppose you can describe situations where it makes sense to give mistrust to the government. Let me think about it, I mean, since everyone's been talking so long. Distrust should be done to the government in the middle of a period when it is found that there are too many reservations about the government, there will be an alternative to it and it will be said "we want another government," there will be a vote of distrust, and there will be a change, and there will be some other formation that can be put together and replace the government. I dare say, not a constitutional lawyer, that the Constitution assumes that the government will switch after distrust has been expressed. When distrust is simply expressed, the Constitution says there is to be an exchange of government. So anyone who calls for distrust should consider it. And it's legitimate, everything's fine. Why is there a lack of confidence four months before the election? I'm asking. In my opinion, only if it makes sense, if there were any major scandalous new facts, it was found that the Minister was working with the Mafia or the Prime Minister, or there was just some new reality or something that would appear here today in this fight and it would be said: there is a new reality, with that it is not possible for this government to continue, and on this basis we will vote in distrust of the government and we must make a change. But I think that four months before the election, it should definitely be this crucial thing. And you see, here are the different principles of the speakers, but I invoke the principle of constitutionality, and I say that the constitutionality that must be protected so that this is not a tearing calendar, these things, so that constitutionality means that distrust is declared when an alternative is prepared. And it's so important that she's ready and real, because it's a very serious thing when that country gets unsure. [[15.00 hours]] Mr Bartoš here has said such a sentence that this government is no longer bringing anything new. Do you understand, then, is that the key reason that this government is no longer bringing anything new? Is that a reason for us to spend time here today by voting on government distrust? At the same time, President Bartoš said that the distrust of work is not over. That's an interesting thought. What does that mean? That if we were to get that mistrust, we'd pretend like nothing was going on, that nothing was going on? Or what it was meant to be? You know, my point is if the opposition, when she resorted to this, did she know what she was doing? What exactly does the opposition want today? Besides, of course he's throbbing the government. That's good, we hear that from all sides. But what's the goal of this exercise? Where was the exercise supposed to go? If the mistrust had been actually announced, what would have happened? Does anyone know? If no one knows, that's a pretty good gamble. So it's just like the government's gonna throw out here and something's gonna happen. I have heard such consideration by Mr Jurečka, who has been talking for a long time, that there should be some colorful government that everyone would also be involved in, or something like that. Is this like fun or just Mr. Jurečka's chimera? Or is anybody serious, or one of you can imagine that the president would take the role of forming a colorful government that you would get into... That's completely ridiculous. Is that the level of imagination that went with it? [[He responds to a comment from the opposition benches that they also initiated a government appeal once.]] Of course, you're referring to recalling the government when the government was called off as President of Topolánek. Absolutely, I'm aware of that, of course. And I'll even tell you right away, it was a mistake we made back then. Of course we made a mistake. And you know why? Because then our preferences went down, because we found out that if the government was going to come, then you'd pay for it, and then you'd lose the election. I even think it's because we showed you how it doesn't work. So you could learn a lesson from it and you could say that this just doesn't pay off. Why do you remind me of that? You should have been reminded of that. You guys should have remembered that what you've been doing has happened here twice. That mistrust has been declared... [[He's laughing. Let's hear it for members of the government coalition.]] Try to remind me of something like that, I'll explain it to you even better. It's just this is the perfect example of what we've done, how it just doesn't pay off. So answer my question, why are you repeating it when I can even see it, remember? I don't understand. Well, I'll explain it to you one more time. It doesn't pay off. So you went into an action that was unsuccessful in both ways. If mistrust had been declared, you would have actually gone through it like you showed me here, and if you hadn't succeeded, that's actually a defeat, too. Explain to me why the opposition is going into an operation in which they lose to both sides? I don't understand. I'd like you to explain what you're really up to and why you started it instead of chasing the government that you're doing well. Why are we supposed to be doing this all day on this hot day? I should probably be the government minister right now saying what I'm doing, how irreplaceable it is, and that if there's a mistrust, it's all gonna fall apart. But I don't know if anyone cares. 'Cause I feel like this vote of distrust isn't about the government at all. I have a feeling it's about opposition. She's the main topic. Isn't that right, it's all about you? That the main problem is that unfortunately people take care of their jobs and take care of their health and you need to get their attention. Well, there's got to be a couple of super radical opinions here, and it's actually about which one of you is going to have a prima tonight. Isn't that more than the criticism of the government? You see, it's so really that I have to explain something, or it doesn't really matter what I do as a minister or my colleagues, it doesn't really matter. Because it's actually something else. The point is, you guys are gonna be doing a few performances here to see who's gonna have the strongest words. So, actually, everyone suspects. We're ahead of the election, and that's probably the point of the exercise. Then tell me that's not true. That's what I suspect. That's what I'm saying. Well, you know, there's one thing I'm sorry about, and that's that we're not actually out of the crisis yet. I'm gonna tell you a couple of problems that seem pretty serious to me, and I almost wish instead of you guys rushing in on how the government messed up if we thought about what we were gonna do about it. Like the fact that we put together a pandemic law here with you because you didn't want to approve an emergency, so you forced us to put together a pandemic law. And now, after the last statements of the Supreme Administrative Court, we just find that the pandemic law is not enough. Now imagine what happens when the pandemic comes back in September, which we can't rule 100% out. Well, it's not so much fun tonight to play some exercises around here. We should respond to this, and we should be able to talk about it. When you said we couldn't use an emergency, and it was claimed that the pandemic law would replace it, and now it looks like we don't, we have more serious problems. We're having trouble inoculating people, convincing them it's worth it. And we should almost do that together rather than drag ourselves in here and prove who has stronger expressions. We should agree that there is some kind of procedure that would be good to keep in that country. We should try to make people trust him, and we should try to prepare ourselves for what if God did not return in the fall. This may be more serious than all the choices. We don't want to do this again, do we? Now I've heard, read, a statement from the Supreme Administrative Court that says we don't have the right to close those elementary schools either. You know, you can say that a hundred times around here that we're incompetent. But how were we supposed to know that when the government dropped it in April of last year, it was just a year from now that the Supreme Administrative Court would decide that he meant otherwise? It's hard enough for me to wait today, or compare yourself to the way the Supreme Administrative Court is blowing up what... I understand that lawyers may have thought safe, but it doesn't seem enough. But I repeat, it's not just an empty disputation. The point is, if we don't come up with something, we might suddenly be defenseless in September. And we should be talking about this. We're not good. I know it looks better now, thank God, and I'm so happy for it, but we're not good. Or we will fail as if we were before those elections, but then God save the inhabitants of this land. That's why I feel like it doesn't matter what's going on here today. And that's why it bothers me that it's just barren when it feels like it's going nowhere. That instead of looking for a deal on things that are important, we're listening here instead, of course, to a whole series of things that we know more or less. I don't deny government mistakes, I don't deny imperfection, I know you're right about a lot of things. But the point is, is there any point in this exercise, when really here is the role of a state, which at this point is still extremely important in both economic and health protection. And it just seems to me that this kind of exercise that doesn't have a purpose that doesn't have a goal, it just doesn't make everything very clear. Even the citizen doesn't get fat. Or if you feel like he's happy about the meeting tonight, you're wrong. 'Cause it just seems like the main problem to me is what someone here needs to think about today. The government's failures? I'd be talking about failing opposition today. Today is about the problem of opposition and serious failure of opposition. Think about it. The opposition has a great and important role to play in the parliamentary system. And it is extremely important how the opposition plays this role. And more importantly, at a time when such a crisis is at hand. It really depends on what you do. If you're meeting on Karl's bridge and you're gonna throw some throws and shit again. The important thing is what you say in the House. When you force us to relax at one point, and when we release, you beat us on the head for releasing. You know, it's not possible to let this place out like this. And today is full of geysers that we've heard here many times. And you know I'm a politician who will always talk to anyone who comes. And there's more in this government that I'm sure they're ready to have a conversation with you. Today is such a time that we should be aware of what is yet to come. That is why I say that even the opposition should consider its failures and learn from them before it is too late.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. We are still not in the debate, so it is not possible to respond directly. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček applied with priority rights. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will not speak for long, but I also consider it my duty to say a few words to this meeting today. And maybe I'll follow up on Luboš Zaorálek, who was here looking for the reason why we're meeting today and in this format. For me, the reason is simple. I tell him, look, Mom, I'm on TV. Because that's the only reason I know. The opposition here beats the government for a year for doing everything wrong. She just kind of didn't have the courage or the strength to shoot down that government that year. They blame us for autumn, they blame us for loosening up. They're kind of forgetting how it was, who was here for the notoriety breakers, who forced the government to open up quickly, so that people can buy for vánoce, who made the emergency fetish here, and how it was done here, who pushed us into the pandemic law just so that experts on their side would file various lawsuits against the Supreme Administrative Courts against decisions made under the pandemic law. Now it turns out that if we really need to intervene against the epidemic, if God forbid she comes back, there'll just be nothing else left to do, that we'll have to call for an emergency again. And I can already see the rumble in the House. But it's just that the opposition hasn't found the courage or the power to take down the government the whole time we've been here. And she wasn't even able to make a deal. We know the meeting here was born in severe pain. There's been 50 signatures here for days, maybe weeks. Suddenly they weren't, because one coalition wanted extraordinary elections, the other coalition wanted this meeting. They couldn't make a deal. And when the deal was made, it was discovered that there were some Vrbětice, that the government was throwing out Russian diplomats. And yet we can't call off the government. We have to wait for him to finish the job, and then we'll try to call it off. So you let us push the epidemic through the measures we had to bloody fight here every 14 days by voting on an emergency. Thanks to these epidemic measures, God forbid it's going down slowly. And I hope he doesn't come back. You let us solve the dream of the entire Czech security community and compare the states of diplomats in Moscow and here. Well, now that we're done, you've come up with the idea of shooting us down. Interesting timing. But I'm saying again, that's the only reason. The reason, of course, is that there's an election in four months, and it's good for the campaign. And more or less this morning's meeting, when it was discovered that the voices would not be here, I suggested that it would be most honest if we started here so that all those who didn't want to vote for the government's distrust turn off so that some 78 or 80 votes would appear on the board that were left behind, and then it would be obvious that the whole day is just a rhetorical exercise, and it's more likely to be in the square or in the campaign, but not in the House. I remember when I was President of the Chamber of Deputies, so the journalists criticized me for having 270 points on the agenda. If I'm not mistaken, there's about 500 of them now. And instead of telling each other what we all know about each other here anyway, without any hope of this meeting becoming anything, because the opposition just doesn't have the votes, we could make a few laws for the good of our citizens, and we could shrink that huge package a little bit. So it's a waste of time today. I'm not going to calculate the government's achievements here either. I'm not gonna tell you why we did this or that. Because it's just the debates and the election debates and the electoral calculators and I don't know what everything we're gonna do, we're gonna have too much of a campaign. But today just is and will be a rhetorical exercise of the opposition. And when Lubos here Luboš talking about mistakes, I'd add one more. It may interest someone by 19.15, then the hockey starts and no one will care anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. I would like to point out that this hall was a historical and theatre hall and that Thursdays are intended for government interpellation, so it would probably not solve the laws anyway. If no one else claims priority rights... [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] Member on behalf. The MP's getting ahead of himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just very briefly. The reason we didn't call for a vote of distrust at the time of the peak pandemic was precisely the pandemic. We have clearly said that we will not make matters difficult for the government at a time when there are simply completely different global problems. And I'd also like to take a hard look at the fact that we weren't helping. I can tell KDU-ČSL that we came up with 120 concrete proposals. Some were ignored at first, then accepted by the government coalition. Some have been ignored to this day, and we may all regret it today. So I'd really like to look back on the fact that we were throwing sticks at each other. The Prime Minister talked about it today. It's completely incorrect. We demanded, we begged, we asked for a meeting, we asked for cooperation. After all, the pandemic law was largely from our workshop, and it was precisely for the government to have an effective tool in combating pandemics, but for the situation not to be abused. And, as you can see, the pandemic law basically worked. Measures are simply meant to be explained, not done across the board and not just because it's that simple. Measures are to be made to help protect them and not just like that. That's why we did this. And I'm really against the fact that we've been throwing sticks at the government and splitting up the company. No. We sewed the drapes. We delivered them. We were loyal because we knew we were in a difficult situation. But we will not and could not close our eyes to clear government errors, and we think that some of them were completely intentional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. At this point, I am finally launching a debate in which Mrs Černochová is the first to join, then 18 other colleagues. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll start from the end in response to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček - look, mom, we're on TV. I think the TV viewers will appreciate that they have found out that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček is still alive and in politics, because after the scandal with the trip to Moscow he committed, he actually disappeared completely from the TV screens. So I think that "look, Mom, I'm on TV" really fell on Mr. Hamáček's fertile soil. I would also like to respond to the comments made by Minister Zaorálek. Secretary of Zaorálek, just for a little recap. Prime Minister Paroubek's government, respectively. Before she knocked down Topolánkův's government, Mr. future Prime Minister Paroubek was losing Topolánkův's government five times in total. Between 2006 and 2010, the government's vote on distrust was called up five times. In 2010 to 2013, it was five times as well. Now we're discussing the government's mistrust for the third time. So don't tell us there's nothing to talk about. There's something to talk And none of us who signed up under government distrust, virtually. under the call of this meeting, so we do not waste this Constitutional Institute, unlike you, who did it, virtually. your colleagues have been doing this every six months. To Secretary Schillerová. I am once again fascinated by the fact that Minister Schillerová repeats the same lies as last time. I called the government here during the last vote of distrust because they're bragging about other people's feathers. If the Minister here says that she has eliminated gambling from the Czech Republic, I would like to remind her that it was me and Mr Jan Farský who proposed a change in the lottery law here in 2011 that allowed the municipalities to regulate gambling on their territory. I don't know where the Minister was in 2011, but she certainly wasn't in the Chamber of Deputies. And to her evil saliva, that perhaps we want to perform here so that we can be in the media. So, Minister Schillerová, better to be in serious news than to be a pimple on Instagram. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] [[15.20 hours]] I'm sorry the Secretary of Defense isn't Metnar because now I'm going to talk to him and the Prime Minister. I have been defending myself here in the Chamber of Deputies for ten years, for the last four years as chairman of the Committee on Defence. One of my principles in this area is to be outspoken, because defence as well as security must be outspoken. Bad military care in a moment of crisis will catch up with us all, from the left, from the right. All the while, my colleagues and I have tried to help, we have traveled around the state and private businesses of our defence industry, so that we know what is bothering them. If legislation needed to be amended, we were actively involved and we supported the Ministry of Defence's actions through resolutions, including ensuring a sufficient budget. While I must commend my cooperation with my colleagues and I would also like to thank them for this way, some of the government's actions, virtually. The ministries go against not only the sense, but also the committee's recommendations, and unfortunately it turns out that they were wrong, which is painfully felt by the military, especially in the field of acquisitions. And that is one of the reasons why the current government does not have our confidence, because with the end of the parliamentary term coming up, it is becoming increasingly apparent that a number of things that have been planned and promised in defence will, unfortunately, not be respected. In my speech, I want to focus on three areas where I see major problems. Acquisitions and support of our defence industry, budget and organizational structure of the Ministry of Defence. Acquisitions are the long-term pain of the Ministry of Defence, yet it is a key area that determines whether we have a modern army or a pre-depper army. Unfortunately, ours is still firmly anchored in the last century. The YES movement has been controlled by the Ministry of Defence for eight years. Eight years. That's a long time to show off, don't you think? Part of these years have been wasted. Mr. Metnar has become Mrs. Columbová in the last year. We all know about his existence, but he's nowhere to be found. Last week, the committee and I were at the all-Soldier tests of the new BVP, where three suppliers presented themselves, potential suppliers of this largest acquisition over the last few decades. What do you think? Well, he wasn't there! A new law on public procurement was adopted to enable the Ministry of Defence to buy and speed up the modernization of the military, at least that was assured by the then Minister of Defence Stropnický. The opposite is true. A harder approach to defence contracts has been chosen than required by the relevant European Union directives, and we are constantly faced with the requirements for amendment. It's kind of winged: the law is wrong, we have to change it. When we say, "Do you have the changes written, Minister?" Can you present them to us as a committee? - Ticho. We shot ourselves in the leg and the result is an effort to buy outside the law, which is to speed up modernization, but it doesn't work. Key projects are picking up on delays, and it's become a factor that, as soon as we get three months on the defense committee, we'll get information that something's going down, that quarter of a year, that half a year, that half a year, that year two. We are ahead of the elections and we have three key modernization projects that should have been signed by a long time ago: NATO caliber gun, SHORAD anti-air system, and new infantry combat vehicles, which I have already discussed. Moreover, the works and SHORAD are likely to cost billions of crowns! What can I say? Minister, you can't manage an office and an army as key areas as acquisitions! Absent, Minister. Officials do what they want, projects are delayed, money is transferred from year to year and from project to project. Take a look at Poland, Slovakia, Hungary as you can. They buy while we talk and dream for years. And finally, a civil servant, a professional, your clerk... I'm afraid the Minister is afraid he left just before my performance, otherwise I can't explain it... Your clerk can't handle the G-to-G contract properly, the government. So the Ministry will be fined with half a billion crowns. Half a billion crowns! These will be taken by the military when we fight for every crown for military investment and when increasing the military budget in front of the public does not defend itself easily at the time of the covideo pandemic. When a person asks who is responsible and how he is punished, he gets the answer that the Ministry has done the right thing and will be tried. So whoever robbed the army of half a billion can be at peace. Well, I certainly wouldn't be at peace with the Minister's position. We all agree on the importance of supporting the domestic defence industry. I am glad that the Ministry's approach is changing gradually, but it is still inadequate and unfortunately has been wasted for many years. Lots of years at the time of the boom, when the money was there. My colleagues and I from the committee are going around the entire election period, talking to representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Defence and Security Industry. We hear the same thing all the time: practical support is small, instead of cooperation in development and its financing is chosen to purchase a finished product abroad, where the transfer of know-how is minimal. Thanks to the increasing budget, the share of expenditure on research, development and innovation in the Ministry of Defence is falling. That's a mistake. It should be exactly the opposite. There should be more money in development, and the military should work more closely with private development companies, because what we are able to produce here will also have in the event of crises. That's the key. And the pandemic of coronavirus may have taught us all enough about it. It is completely nonsense that the company itself will pay billions for the development of a new aircraft and, in an effort to apply it to the Army of the Czech Republic, it will hit the Ministry of Defence on the wall of silence. Look abroad as well as to European countries, how they support domestic businesses and the development of technologies, how they also support financial exports to interest countries. They know what's at home counts. You, despite the declaration, have been treating the domestic industry, Minister, in Maces, as the numbers show. You do not manage as a founder or managing your own state-owned enterprises, whose results are very bad and are in loss, except for honest exceptions. And if we let these businesses go bankrupt, who will support our state in the event of a crisis? Who's gonna make vans for the army? There is no denying - and please register this, that I have said this - that the defense budget has been growing in recent years. We're all happy for it, I appreciate it, but I have to say what's wrong. The bad thing is that years of abundance have not been reflected in the growth of the defense budget It is beautiful to see the comparison within the North Atlantic Alliance, where, despite increasing the budget, we are still among the last. We should have used growth, like the surrounding countries, to accelerate the pace of modernization. We, however, walked on the spot, talked and dreamed. The second thing is to reduce predictability, which is essential for acquisition and modernisation. The budget grew not only slower than it should have, but last year, 10 billion were withdrawn, which were gradually and humiliatingly, under duress, returned to the military. It delayed the implementation of the projects, it is very clear. [[15.30 hours]] A few days ago, the Ministry of Finance presented a draft budget for individual chapters for 2022, and the Ministry of Defence is expected to receive approximately 4.5 billion less than planned in previous budget projections. I consider this completely scandalous with regard to the declaration of the Minister of Defence and the Prime Minister. This is not how modernization can be done and planned. It's a big mistake. We all know that buying large technology needs to have certainty and stability of funding in the order of several years, just as the military needs it for their plans. These documents don't change every month. KVACR are documents that are for a long period of time. They really need to know what funds they can expect in the future. And in this context, we must not forget that, last year, the Ministry of Defence contributed almost 3 billion to the solution to the covid crisis, and it was in fact the only resort to which the budget was cut due to coronavirus. You're creating chaos in the modernization plans, and you're not, unfortunately, saying the positive things you've done. It turns out that the only way to do so is to really regulate expenditures of 2% of GDP in defence. I have repeatedly filed a motion here, but his lack of support from the government is perhaps the best proof of what you mean by defense. Finally, I want to briefly mention the structure of the Ministry of Defence. The Civil Service Act was adopted and implemented under our governments. The result at the Ministry of Defence is merely the swelling of the number of Deputys. They're on a historical number that's never been there. That's wrong. The number of agendas hasn't grown. You didn't make the transition to state service, and it's another legislative fiasco. The Civil Service Act was intended to ensure a certain rigidity in order to avoid structural changes at all times. The opposite is true, and the Ministry of Defence is the best example of creating redundant sections just because it wants to make someone a deputy. Although there are steps for which I put my thumb up this government in the field of defence, unfortunately I have to say that errors in driving and delay are a positive one. In short, it is time for a change and it is time for this government to express distrust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Mr Brázdil is here with a factual remark, then Mr Růžička. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u41	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague, through Mr President, I do not think the Minister is afraid of you. And I'm not 100% afraid of you. And I would like to say that I can stand here, thank you, Government of the Czech Republic, for what you have done for the paramedics, the medical rescue service of the Czech Republic. She's not here, but thank you for her. Fourteen counties, not one county evaluated the work of these people, and you noticed it. Thank you so much. And as a paramedic, I think I speak for everyone. Everyone will thank you for noticing that they've done a decent, perfect job here. And you, although you didn't have to, thanked them for some value twice 120,000 gross. Thank you so much for that again. And I am sorry that the regions of this republic, which are the founders of the rescue services, have abandoned them. And once again, my colleague, through Mr President, I am a person who is not afraid, I have experienced so much that I am simply not afraid of you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I will point out that factual remarks should be directed towards a response to the previous speaker. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Růžička. The Minister has arrived and is reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u43	Mr President, colleagues, I would only briefly respond to my honourable colleague, Mrs Jana Černochová, through the President. Well, as a matter of fact, Madam Speaker has made a great assessment of this place. It is only a pity that she did not advise this in 2010 to Minister Vondra, because we would no longer have to be here in such a situation where the Ministry of Defence deals with the repair of the Pandurs, where the ODS made a fatal mistake not to arrange service and subsequent repairs to these Pandurs. The fact that Mr. Dalík led Mr. Topolánek to do business, and Mr. Dalík was convicted of it was an ode where corruption was involved in the purchase of pandurs. I appreciate the Minister's discretion in purchasing technology is that he is getting individual orders evaluated. And everything doesn't always work out perfectly well, because Dalík and ODS scams in Pandur shopping are a really scary case. I can rate it, I served until 2009, I think it was the Secretary of Defense singing Mrs. Parkanová from KDU-ČSL. In 2009, the soldiers didn't have oil, they couldn't practice, they couldn't drive. Then came Vondra, who created some White Book, where in 2010 they were supposed to be dealing with buying bevypeks, cannons and other techniques, which we now have to deal with in length. All this could have been done by now. I'd rather not talk about parachutes, my colleague, because someone would file criminal charges again, and I don't think it's the ODS, but it's a completely different party. I see my time is up. I'll check in again if I have to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for keeping time. I'm going to introduce the House with a note. Mr Richter apologizes to us between 13:00 and 4:00 for family reasons. And now the Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, as has been said, this is the resemblance of Mrs Columbová, as I have been marked. But know this, because working at the resort is not easy, as the chairman of the Defence Committee has also said, but I would like to tell you now the facts without some political undertone that really sounds here. But first, let me take a tour after all these years I've been there, in those five and thirty months, of what I've been and what I've been getting to know so I can tell you what the situation in the military and the defense department has been like. Let's go back to 2010, when the cabinet headed by the Prime Minister for the ODS investigated from less than 49 billion defense budget to 42 billion in 2014. At the time of Minister Vondra, money intended for investment was basically only used to pay Pandur Acar's instalments, then acquired, and nothing new except the Brenes, it is verified, was not purchased, nor for what. By 2014, the purchase of ammunition was completely dampened, purchases of 300 million were made annually, 1.5 billion a year since 2015. Trieste was also cared for by soldiers and with 2015 managed to solve the problem of lack of equipment of soldiers of all kinds. While between 2012 and 2013, for example, contracts worth 389 million were concluded in this area, more than 550 contracts with a total value of more than 7 billion, including those for the ballistic protection of soldiers, have been concluded since 2015. [[15.40 hours]] But now I want to look further at the current situation where I would like to say that, with the Alliance's assessment since 2013, the budget has risen by 100 percent to this year's NATO and has been poorly evaluated by my previous speakers or by the President. We have been evaluated in terms of budget growth for the past seven years as among the top ten and we are in seventh place. This government of the YES movement has fulfilled its promise, and this year from the announced 1.4 percent of GDP we currently have 1.46% of GDP in the budget. Thanks to the increasing budget and the modernisation and purchase of new equipment, it can continue. I am not hiding that pandemics and pandemic measures, yes, they have manifested themselves, but have manifested themselves everywhere - in Europe, in the world, and also in terms of subcontractors' chains. Yes, I'm not covering it up, and I'm telling it how it is. But I would also like to say the evaluation that was made here, so let's say after a month what it looked like. I have been at the resort for thirty-five months and we have concluded, which is in the register of contracts and easy to prove, 35,000 contracts for CZK 112 billion for defense. And that we don't support the domestic industry? 90 per cent of this amount and of these contracts are concluded with entities, with companies from the domestic defence industry. Well, that's just to tell you the facts here, and how it really looks. You all know how dynamic the security situation is at the moment. We're all aware of the situation that's still aggravated by the pandemic. But I can say that the Ministry of Defence's staff are doing a good job, the soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic are doing a great job and I really want to thank them on this occasion. Everything for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. We will continue the debate. Mr Hájek is now signed in, Mr Janda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u47	In yesterday's Hospodářské noviny the editor Honzejk called the opposition's proposal to call for a vote on distrust by the government of opposition horses. If you, dear opposition, are regular readers of the Hospodářské noviny and are objective, you will agree with me that Mr Honzejk is certainly not a fan of the ANO movement, the current government and the Prime Minister. My goal is certainly not to advertise Mr. Honzejk and the editor of Hospodářské noviny. However, I agree with his view that invoking a vote of distrust to the government four months before the election, the idea is unwise. It would make sense if it could change something for the better. This will not happen, however, because in the Czech Republic, we do not have the Institute of constructive distrust, as in Germany, where the opposition automatically comes with a new majority, and thus a new government, when distrust is expressed. The opposition certainly does not have such a scenario unless it returns to the time when Mr KDU-ČSL's former chairman, Mr Kalousek, agreed to open negotiations on the joint government with the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM in 2006. The opposition parties are trying to tell the public that this is an important symbolic act. That is certainly not the proposal. Let's get some pure wine. Parliamentary elections are approaching, the coalition of the SPOLU in the opening of the election campaign symbolically recognized the bell of hope, which was last ringed by Dominik Feri. The leaders of the pirát have taken pictures of STAN together at the Office of the Government, the election campaign is underway, and I therefore understand the opposition that they are trying to use today to address potential voters. For these reasons, we are today witnessing a bunch of opposition speeches, the common denominator of which is the criticism of the government and the Prime Minister. Parliamentary opposition, from my point of view, makes a disgustingly use of the COVID-19 pandemic period to criticize the current government and its actions. I admit that the government didn't make any decisions without mistakes, but anyone who ever drove and was responsible for something can understand that. The important thing is to learn from the mistakes, and that is what the Prime Minister and the government have done. Any objective citizen who takes off his party glasses has to agree with me that the fight against the pandemic is not without partial problems, but he can handle it. Of course, the greatest thanks for handling all the current waves belong to our paramedics, soldiers, firefighters, just all those who were on the front line. Honest thanks are also due to the regional leadership, which, at crucial moments, did not succumb to politics and the interest of protecting citizens, promoted party discipline. In my former mining profession, I was also head of accident disposal. Unfortunately, I experienced a number of mining accidents in which my mining colleagues died and risked other victims as well as mine rescuers. I personally drove accidents that affected the lives of 5,000 miners. The government and Prime Minister are dealing with a pandemic that affects the health and lives of more than ten million of our citizens. That is a huge responsibility that no government has encountered in our history. Except, of course, the milestones in our history when our freedom was decided. That is why I can fully empathize with the feelings of the Prime Minister and the entire government, who really do not have it easy and easy. The opposition had it, and it has a much simpler one. Unlike governments that have to make decisions and take political responsibility for their decisions, the opposition only criticizes from the comfort of the House benches and political secretariats. That really gets criticized. The opposition and its related media have been flying like vultures over Strakovka for over a year, waiting for any government error. Covido time is a turbulent time, and government regulations often need to be updated and changed, which sometimes brings the inaccuracies of their interpretation. A normal person will understand. Not the opposition. The one after these inaccuracies, it's just... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... In opposition to friendly servers, we can read again and again how incompetent the government is. The opposite, however, is true. It was not so long ago that the opposition strongly criticized the Prime Minister and the government for being unable to organise vaccinations. The Prime Minister took the vaccination under direct control. And what is the result today? Daily vaccination is up to 100,000. And vaccinations are already allowed for young people. For that, we must sincerely thank the government. From the mouth of the opposition, the government will certainly not receive this thanks. The vision of the Prime Minister's chair adds wings to the opposition, so I would be really foolish to think that the opposition will change its rhetoric. It won't. And today's debate only confirms me in this view. The solution to the COVID-19 pandemic is, of course, not just a problem for the Czech Republic. A number of other countries have been forced to take a number of unpopular measures. We can look at Slovakia, Poland, Hungary, Germany, Holland, France or Switzerland and many other countries where governments were forced to close shops, restaurants, hotels and, unfortunately, schools in connection with pandemics. Governments were forced to ban mass cultural and sporting events or even to declare curfew. But any saved human life that has been saved by these measures should reward us for these temporary measures. In the last few days, God has given us a significant incidence. I am neither a doctor nor an epidemiologist, but I'm sure many of you will agree with me that successful vaccinations have a significant effect on this decline. Our citizens' lives are slowly beginning to return to normal. We all believe that the operation of our institutions, offices and governments will return to normal regime. Mr Honzejk, in his article entitled "A few reasons why the vote on the distrust of the Government of the opposition horse," said, among other things - I quote: The idea that expressing distrust to a live government on ČT 24 will bring some new voters to the COO or pirát and starosta is about as naive as the evening of the poppy doll will change our youngest generation's life preferences. End of quote. Our people aren't stupid. Despite the systematic media massage of the opposition of close media, most people retain clear minds and common sense. Every election sets a mirror for the government. And I believe that today's exhibition of the opposition that sparked this vote of distrust to the government will not change the view of much of the electorate on the political scene. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. There are two factual points and then Mr Benešík with priority rights. However, first Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Černochová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u49	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Hájek through you. First of all, about the media, because it's quite smiling that you mentioned several times in your speech how the media is related to the opposition, and you tactfully withheld that the Prime Minister owns several media. That's one. And two, and that's much more serious. No, the government couldn't handle the epidemic. The government has allowed us to get under water, resulting in at least 30,000 deaths. That's what happened here! The numbers only go down because the Czech Republic is seared. And that is the result of your government, and that is why they deserve to be distrusted!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u50	Thank you and now, with the factual remark of Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u51	He's gone again. Minister Metnar. I'm responding to his de facto commentary. He said 35,000 contracts were concluded. I wonder if the Minister also includes contracts for the purchase of office, toilet paper and other paper, because I have quite different figures here. I would also like to call into question the 90 percent that will remain at home within the Czech industry from the amount mentioned by the Minister here, because I would like to hear the answer to how much the Minister has negotiated that he will remain in the domestic industry from the purchase order of American helicopters that this government has decided during the Minister's era. And you know, Minister, I'm a little tired of hearing that you're there for 350, 370 days. The YES movement has been in the Ministry of Defence for eight years. Eight years! So you can't keep defending yourself here forever that I was the one sitting there, so I did this, and my predecessors were incompetent. So I would very much like to hear your answer to how much money remains in the Czech industry from the purchase of American helicopters Viper and Venom. I say I am very glad that we bought this technique, that this technique will be in our aviation park, but I want to know what the Czech companies will get when you say that 90 percent stays at home. I have different numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u52	Thank you, and now with priority rights, Mr Benešík. Then Mr Růžička came forward with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will respond briefly for the KDU-ČSL club. Of course, Miroslav Kalousek was supposed to negotiate government support for communists in 2006, which is why he ended up President of the KDU-ČSL. Whereas the ANO movement is begging for that support. That's the big difference. The opposition only criticizes. I repeat here again, this is a lie. Maybe some opposition. I think we've been most helpful, and we're still, uh, extremely constructive. We have come up with our own proposals because we have realized the difficult situation our country is in and that it is simply a difficult situation for the government. For the government that took the situation down at the beginning. And it was the opposition that pointed out that the pandemic wouldn't be fun. Whoever told us it was funny was the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health. Please remember that! I refuse to say that we're taking advantage of situations. On the other hand, we were waiting for the situation not to be dramatic, and we had just come up with something called a constitutional principle. Just if the government loses the majority's trust in the House, it's supposed to come to the House on its own and ask for it so that we know who's supporting it. My God, this government, any government must have the support of the majority in the House. Otherwise, he's just not legit. Or it can only be temporary. This is how it is supposed to work in the Czech Republic. So please, let's pour some pure wine and not say here that the opposition has abused or abused. I'm just saying that we were, and we're the most responsible. And the 120 concrete proposals our AntiCovid team has come up with, and some have been accepted by the government, sooner or later, indicate that we have behaved and behaved most responsibly, but we are also responsible to the Constitution and constitutional principles of the Czech Republic. And even today, the Prime Minister said some interesting things. For example, household savings have risen by a record of 300 billion. He's right. But where were people supposed to spend the money when the economy was almost closed? That's logical. Just when you don't go to a restaurant and you limit shopping, you don't go to shows, you go to concerts, so it's clear that there were probably people who were able to save money under these circumstances. And when we suggested a long month ago that small businesses, bookstores, shoe stores, or dresses could be followed by all possible sanitary measures, minimize the risk of transmission of the disease to a minimum, the government wouldn't listen to us. In supermarkets, people's massacres, but small stores had to be closed because they posed a risk. It was exactly the opposite, and we have made life very difficult for these people. This is one of many examples. We've already heard information about how long our schools have been closed down. Of course, at some point teaching had to be limited and at some point it had to be closed. But did they really have to be closed for that long? We have come up with concrete suggestions on how to release this so that we do not deprive our children of the future. Unfortunately, we've been ignored. So that's about it. And then another thing - it resonated in the media when I looked at the servers - about the fact that Prime Minister Babiš here defends the Czech Republic against Islamization and migration. I'll read you the press release from 2015. It's a press release on iRozhlas.cz. "The refugees from Syria and other countries could occupy thousands of jobs that locals are not interested in, according to the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement in the Czech Republic. Babiš said so in Luxembourg after the meeting of the finance ministers of the countries of the European Union. We have 18,000 job vacancies for auxiliary workers. If our citizens do not want to occupy these positions, yes, why not, he said about the possibility of employing refugees in the Czech Republic. But first it is necessary to make a system in principle. But the smugglers won't make decisions because there are 30,000 of them, and today they decide which fugitive is coming, and those unfortunate people pay money for it, he emphasized. It would be good to hold the line." When the Prime Minister said today that he saw a problem in the fact that there would be 2,000 people from Afghanistan - I also see a problem - so that he didn't mind 18,000 people from Syria at the time? It's not enough just to drool your finger and try to see where the wind blows from, but to stick to some values and ideas. And long-term, if possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u54	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. With a factual remark, Mr Pavel Růžička. Mr. Jan Volný will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u55	I would still respond to Mrs Černochová through Mr President and add what she has not yet said. She didn't say that during the reign of Mirek Topolánek, CASA planes were bought and paid for. And now our government has managed to buy the same planes, much better equipped, and we've saved 900 million. So that's a great job for the DOD. So it's not all black and white. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Mr Jan Volný, Mr Pavel žáček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very short. All I want is for a fellow pirate to figure out how the government let more than 30,000 people die. Please, every person is a waste and I am very sorry and I have suffered very much every morning when I opened up the list and saw how many people died - but with the covid, my colleague! And compare what in Germany, what in Austria? Please, the methodology of reporting these victims, I'm incredibly sorry, it was just different in every country. It wasn't unified, and it was always pointed out that it was the victims who died with the covid. I've only had a few bitter reactions in my neighborhood over the past year and a half, where my friend's 85-year-old grandfather died of a heart attack that was long-term ill, and when he was in the hospital, when he was a few days, they found out that he had some hints of covid, but he was counted into the statistics. Whether it's right or wrong, I don't want to judge it, but say here that the government let 30,000 people die of covid, that it's no shame for you to operate on these numbers! It's sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Mr Pavel žáček, Mr Mikoláš Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor. There's a misconception here that the opposition should be part of a government coalition. That's just not true. The opposition has its tasks. No government is so self-critical, which is why the criticism must be made by the democratic nature of our system by the opposition. We've already talked about the servers associated with the opposition. On the other hand, the servers associated with, for example, the Prime Minister, the criticism of the opposition. [[♪ Stand ♪]] I would mention one thing and, of course, support Jana Černochová as Chair of the Defence Committee. There is such a working atmosphere that when a government MP comes in saying that he can't criticize something, he can't say something, and he asks the opposition, so in the context of solving the matter, the supra-party solution to the problem, we will comply. We'll ask the minister for him. That's how it works in an area that really should be extra-partisan, which should be addressed across, because that's the interest of the whole state. So I don't quite understand the criticism. And one last thing. Now the D.O.D.'s report has paid the half a billion, the fine that the UOHS gave him for buying those U.S. helicopters. So maybe the Minister can tell us something, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u61	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will respond to a fellow Freeman through you. First of all, I responded to a colleague named Hájek who said that the government had mastered the pandemic. I said, "No, the government didn't manage it, the government let the Czech Republic get soaked up, resulting in at least 30,000 people dying here. And as far as that number goes, it's actually going to be even higher, because the number of deaths against normal flights is even higher than the reported deaths that were diagnosed with covid. In fact, there will be even more of these victims, but we'll know from a distance when the Czech Statistical Office publishes the data. But it's totally undignified to bagulate. There'll be more than 30,000 dead. It is largely the result of the disastrous process of government in the pandemic, and to make it very disrespectful to those dead people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Mr Jakub Janda will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am asking myself two questions to begin with. How can anyone judge and responsible give this government confidence? And how can anyone keep this group in power, or rather a party that is a parade of lack of competence and excess of chaos? The argument that it's a few months till the election, and it's pointless, I don't buy it. There's always a point. And every other day with this government is a ruined day. A ruined day for this country, for all its inhabitants, for future generations. The expression of distrust is not just a floscule under which a common citizen cannot imagine anything. It is about whether our citizens still believe through us Members that the government can manage this state, whether we trust the government that it can manage this state. It's not important or something that should be reduced. On the contrary. It is proof that this government has the right to exist at all. There are countless reasons why the government should finally be able to let go of the helm. Some have already been heard, and some others will certainly sound. Just by chance: tragiccomedy at the Ministry of Health, case Vrbětice and above all unnecessary debt to the state, which will be carried away by us and especially our children. It shouldn't even fit in that it was this government that brought the Communists to power. A party that is a direct follower of the creators of the former totalitarian regime in our country, behind which the dead, murdered and robbed people stand. Why am I saying this and why am I mentioning it right now? Because it's been 71 years since he became one of the many cruel communist crimes that freezes me personally as a former athlete. 71 years ago, there was an arrest of hockey representatives and their subsequent conviction in the constructed processes. The defendants were from the upcoming emigration and treason. Only because of the communists has our state lost great athletes and sports performances that would go down in history. Only by their fault did these hockey players spend their best years in communist camps, where one of them, goaltender Bohumil Modrý, died. And today, after 71 years of this event, we're forced to listen to the local red comrades' dances, whether they say whether they hide under the bench or under the carpet, or whether they have a cold, or if they happen to be convinced by Babiš, the Faltýnek, that night, that morning. As a poet would say, I'm sad in this country. But back to specific things. One of the thousands of reasons why this government should leave is what happened at the National Sports Agency. Not yesterday, not a month ago, not at the beginning of the year, but practically since its establishment. The National Sports Agency is not just an office, but it is the highest sports authority that deals with one of the important areas of our lives. We have professional athletes, top athletes, even more amateur or enthusiasts, and last but not least children and youth. A huge mass of people for whom sport is not just a kind of chasing the ball, but a lifestyle, a full part of their life, a life credo and for many even livelihoods. However, during the Coronavirus crisis, the government completely neglected the emphasis on their exercise. I guess you don't have to have a pedagogical education to understand that on-line teaching doesn't work out on your own. And the National Sports Agency? Sure, she can't be a gym teacher, that's in the government's mind and the Ministry of Education. They didn't even show up at the agency. Respectfully, they did, but in a different way. Recently we were amazed to learn the results of the check, respectively. audit of the Agency's management. Opaque and probably overpriced purchases, non-existent or double contracts, or famous presentations made, CZK 12,000 per page. [[Nesroz.]] A bunch of fat things that keep your mind on. I appreciated Milan Hnilička as a great hockey goalie and gave him a chance in this difficult role, i.e. in building a new office, however he was from another political camp. At first, when the Sport Support Act was only being amended, I also drew attention to the risks that were and will be linked to the creation of the Agency. I drew attention to the unfortunate setting and too vague a position of the structure of the new office. For many of them, I also tabled amendments in the legislative process. I have tried to push for a much more specific definition of the duties and rights of the President of the Agency, as well as of his Vice-Presidents. I drew attention to the lack of scrutiny of Parliament and collective management, including supervision. In vain. The reaction was to describe my speeches as a speech by Fidel Castro and to reject by government MPs, and sometimes even ridicule, reprehensible, condescending, as it now appears. [[16.10 hours]] During the year the Agency started working, I criticised the process of delimiting workers. I warned Milan Hnilička about the management decisions regarding his Vice-Presidents. I pointed out on the Senate's round tables that the Agency does not have the necessary staff culture or regulations. All in vain and deaf. And then all we had to do was follow the consequences. The challenges that were already promised in August were not continuously published until autumn, some even in December. Their parameters certainly did not match their focus. Again, I will not forgive myself for how amateur challenges were designed for athletes with disabilities. I have interviewed the Prime Minister here several times about the whole financing of sport in the Czech Republic. At the end of the year, a new blow: the agency was unable to manage applications and hired an external company to do so. The procedure so terribly illogical that the bile had to move everyone who had ever dealt with the management of the sports club, where each crown turned. New events at the beginning of the year, in which Milan Hnilička surrounded some dubious parties, were really just a period of tragic story. The entire account for this error is based on preliminary estimates that appeared in the media, approximately CZK 10 million. Of course, for a government indebting this country to hundreds of billions, it can be petty. Not for me, it could have been small clubs for years. So I might have a feeling of satisfaction. But I feel no such thing because he suffered from sport, suffered his reputation, his presence, and unfortunately his future. It's a good thing there's been an exchange at the agency, but if the system of its functioning and supervision doesn't change, it can't be enough. If the Sports Support Act is not reopened, the situation will be vague, as it is up to now. Instead of the National Sports Agency drawing directions for modern sport management, it is drowning and drowning in basic matters. It is a cumbersome, fulfilling function mainly of a sports subsidy heater to associations. At the same time, we need something else, especially in order for a functional system of sport financing to work and sports concepts to be implemented. The Prime Minister is responsible for all this. That's the boss, that's the squad captain, he's responsible. And he has to deduce it, too. This brings me back to the purpose of this meeting and to the main subject of my speech. The chaos that the government has spread around, including the area of sport, is far beyond what we can tolerate. It's far beyond what we can close our eyes to, swearing or shouting about. As far as I'm concerned, the response must be clear. No cowardly laurels, no accents, no leaving the O.R. You have to say no to this government here, and I will. I don't trust this government. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause for Members of the ODS]] .
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. With priority rights, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in the hall is getting more and more rusty, we have no ministers left, no holder that sits here quite often, Minister Brabec. I propose that this negotiations be interrupted in the presence of half the Government of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u66	It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. Minister Brabec told me he went to get refreshments. [[Mrs Černochová off the microphone: She's not here, we can't act.]] I'm not questioning it. [[Minister Brabec enters the hall.]] The Minister is here now. I have begun to vote on this procedural proposal. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] I'll check you all out. There is a procedural proposal by Mrs Černochová to interrupt the discussion of this point to the presence of half of the ministers of the Czech Government. I have begun the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting order number 2, 83 Members registered, for 41. The motion was denied. We can move on. Will the Member speak in the debate - with a factual remark is Mr Ivan Adamec reporting? No. So Mr Jan Jakob will be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor. I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr President, I am very sorry that the Minister of Finance, to whom I wanted to talk in the first place, is not present, and I am also sorry that the Prime Minister is not here because I wanted to thank him for his opening speech. Because you may not have noticed, but he was special about one thing. Every time there was a discussion about the government's trust or distrust, every time the Prime Minister had a big, long speech here, he was intersected by the name of Kalousek. Today, this name fell only twice, and I listened carefully. And I think it's very good news, because the Prime Minister is obviously a strong personality, and he seems to have almost managed to deal with one of his nightmares. Unfortunately, otherwise the speech was not very special, it was still just me, me, me, so we learned once again that this country, this republic, does not belong to citizens, but belongs to our Prime Minister. I've been here in the House since January. I thought I knew what I was getting into, but I had no idea what the government would be like. I took my vows at the 79th meeting of the House, today it is the 106th meeting, in the meantime there were four proper meetings and 23 extraordinary ones, most of which were convened by government MPs. This situation has no parallels, but it's just a drawing: We're gonna make it here and we're gonna be able to organize our time. And that's why this government is working in chaos and what chaos is going on towards the citizens. As I said, I've been here less than six months, so I'm going to vote for the first time on trust or distrust of this government. However, this government never had my trust. And let me give you three reasons why I will vote in favour of a motion for distrust. [[16.20 hours]] Firstly, this government is a government of budgetary irresponsibility. At a time of growth, it is easy to manage and it is even easier to give away, but it is much more complicated in a time of crisis. And I, like the Minister of Finance, have also allowed myself to prepare a few graphs for the Prime Minister. And I can do it, I'll keep them myself. [[He's pointing.]] Unfortunately, I can't show them to her, but the numbers are known to her. Here's the state budget balance on this chart. [[He's pointing.]] Official Treasury numbers, then. This year, where you see the deep fall, along with last year, so is the approved balance of the budget. I could still add three more columns here. So for next year, the balance of 390 billion, for 2023 370 billion, and for 2024 the balance of 343 billion. I didn't take those numbers out of my finger again, which is from the government's official budget perspective. These are gigantic deficits. And unfortunately, there isn't even the slightest effort to make savings. If those deficits were spent fighting the pandemic, encouraging the growth of the economy, I might even understand it. But it is quite obvious, and there are SAO conclusions, once again I do not suck it out of my finger, that unfortunately only about half of these deficits are determined for this purpose. Unfortunately, it continues to deal, votes are bought, and the flood follows the principle of public finances. Here this graph - make no mistake, this is not an estimate of the future growth of our economy, unfortunately. [[shows again]] And the secretary also knows this chart well because we had it at our disposal when we approved the gigantic increase in the state budget. This graph represents the evolution of public sector debt over the next decades. I didn't take it out of my finger again. It's a graph that the National Budget Board has drawn up. Unfortunately, the government doesn't care about any of her recommendations. We're here at the beginning. [[He's pointing.]] That's what the secretary here was talking about, that we're not in a very bad place compared to the others. Anyway, here we are, and I'm sorry, the red line, it's after the deficit approval. [[shows again]] Here, two to three years from now - my colleague Nacher, then I will make it available. [[Member Nacher approaches and looks at the chart.]] We're about to run into a budget brake. Yes, if you stay with the government, you'll probably raise the brake, because there's nothing else you can do about it. The irresponsible and gigantic deficits lead to a gigantic debt that awaits us in a few decades. Twenty to thirty years from now, the pension system will collapse. Please tell the young people that they will have no pension because of your irresponsibleness in the management of this country. Investment is also linked to the budget. And there were a lot of numbers going down here about the construction of highways. And unfortunately, Minister Havlíček isn't here, and he said how well it started. But... But over the past seven years, it has stood on average, opened 15 kilometers of highways every year. If I take the same period of seven years of the previous government Garniture, it wasn't a fast race either. But on average, 20 kilometers of highways were opened, 25 percent more. I believe it will be better in the future. But now that you're holed up here, how fast you're building, you're building slower. [[Laughs of several Members.]] I think motorists and drivers aren't allowed like you on government benches. The second reason I won't support this government is because this government is one company's government, if you want one holding. Unfortunately, the aim of this government is primarily to maximize the profits of companies whose end-user benefits are the Prime Minister. Based on the data from the project Watcher of the State, it follows that after his entry into politics, the Prime Minister's companies collected at least CZK 8.8 billion from public budgets. There's a third graph to illustrate this. [[He's pointing.]] Here, this is where the Prime Minister entered politics. You see the increase. It is absolutely clear and indisputable. While Prime Minister's companies are unconditionally supported, the government is fighting for them with the European Union, so it curses others, and especially the smallest ones, they are forever controlled and the government honors the assumption that an entrepreneur is fundamentally evil and is trying to trick the state. That's outrageous. Unlike the government, I trust our people and our entrepreneurs, and we need to support them and not curse them. The third reason I will not support this government is because this government is the government of the lost future. So far, I've been talking about finance. This is of course extremely important. But money is still just money. Take the money to hell. But what I won't forgive is gambling with the life and future of our children. Don't worry, that's the last graph. [[He's pointing.]] And it shows the duration of school closure. The source is the data from UNESCO. Guess who's in charge? Czech Republic. We're the best. Of course, this will have huge consequences. And at this point, I would like to thank all the educators and all the parents you left behind. They did an incredible job. Thank them so much for that. But unfortunately, despite their extraordinary commitment and effort, it will mark a generation. These are not only consequences in knowledge and especially in practical skills, but unfortunately due to the long-term closure of children at home and their mental health. [[16.30 hours]] Psychologists for children and child psychiatrists were slow and slow before the onset of the pandemic. According to the Safety Line, the frequency of mental illness increased by 28 percent last year. This year, after the longer lock-up, it's going to be a lot more than that. Do you know how long children's psychiatrists have been waiting? Unfortunately, it's in the order of months. Do you realize what that could mean? It can often be too late. Probably unconsciously, but I'm sure you've created a new lost generation with your incompetence. Unfortunately, this critical impact of government chaos will not be fully reflected until many years later. Kids will deal with this for a long time. It'll take years. And after all these years, when they get out of it, they're gonna get hit by the debts you created. And when they're seniors, they'll have no retirement. Anyone who doesn't support the government's distrust speech today takes responsibility for all these consequences. We have two options for voting in this vote today. The first is to vote in favour of distrust. Anything else is a vote for this government. KSČM colleagues have decided to vote with their feet. And their chairman here can rhetorically explain what he wants, but it's a vote for this government. And unfortunately, I am very sorry about the ČSSD, the oldest democratic party in this country. I do not agree with the ČSSD much, but I am sorry that you - and the sweaters you had here - have already stripped them - will not help you - to erase social democracy from the political map. All of you who vote in whatever form for this government will vote in favour of the government of budgetary irresponsibility, you will vote in favour of the government of one company and, above all, you will vote in favour of the government of the lost future. Please deal with it in your conscience afterwards. [[There was a laugh coming from the left side of the hall.]] Some people don't have a problem with that right now, and they're laughing. But I'm so glad the election's coming up, and that's where the citizens are going to shut you down. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u68	So, with a factual remark, Mr Milan Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just a factual remark on about two statements from the previous speaker. The first thing he said here was how the highways were built in 2006 and so on. I was at the Department of Transport afterwards. I know how they were built. Yes, about 22 percent more, as you say. And imagine, almost always built by Viamont and almost none were paid out of European funds. You know why? Without competition, breach of budgetary discipline and so on. And out of the 38 billion that, as if they were coming back, a large part of it goes to the Department of Transport, to the construction of highways, to the Ministry that you and the previous coalitions, respectively. So that's the first point. Second point. You're saying how much funding has gone up. Did you look at the structure of the subsidies? Didn't direct payments grow per hectare to all of them? How much of this is investment? First you have to build something, fund it, and then you have some claim to pay for some part. So only if you have these numbers accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Jan Jakob, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to take the liberty of responding to the two gentlemen who have spoken before me. You know, the argument whether it's 22 percent or more or less is misleading, because we all know that no government minister will build a kilometer of highway or railroad in his term unless the construction is ready. I think it needs to be said that this preparation takes six years, maybe even longer. And it needs to be said that this isn't a valid parameter, because I'm just saying that we don't need to argue about this here. I understand my colleague Ferance. I don't know how the selection procedures took place at the Ministry of Transport at the time. I wasn't here, I wasn't in traffic, so I can't tell. But please, let's not argue for miles here, let's be glad they're coming over. I think that the bigger problem is somewhere else entirely, and I hope that we will deal more intensively with the future than has happened so far. 'Cause that's where I think there's a buried dog, and that's where you need to wash your strength. And I have this feeling that we're not doing it the way we're supposed to be doing right now. But that's the thing - I'll talk about it in my post. I don't want to hold up right now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u72	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Of course, I agree with my colleague Adamec. I wanted to respond to the bragging about the highways from the Minister's mouth. As for the numbers for the subsidies to Agrofert, I'm sorry, I forgot to mention the source. The sources were the annual reports of Agrofert and the structure of the subsidies. [[Unintelligible notes from the diaper.]] Yes. What difference does it make? It's such a gigantic conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u74	Jiří Mašek will be next in line in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u75	Mr President, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment here on the timing of this vote on the announcement of distrust to the government, because it seems a little crazy to me. The government expelled almost the entire Russian embassy, and then the opposition shot her for it. That's exactly what inch headlines in the Russian media would look like if you did. Congratulations, really. It's on your part, like you're GRU paid coworkers. You're acting like a seamstress in this, and I apologize to Josef Švejk. Why are you so unprecedentedly undermining this country's successful foreign policy is incomprehensible to me. However, I would like to comment here on the procedure of the Government in the field of health, for which I consider myself adequately competent. For years I have been director of the Rescue Service in Hradec Králové and to this day I work part-time as a practical physician, which is why this issue is more than close to me and I know how our decisions in the House really reflect in practice. The criticism of the government by the opposition and permanent ankle-kicking at all times and whenever possible is exactly what I want to talk about here. So, first things first. What we have done with ours, I think, by Adam Vojtěch's best health minister. eRecipe, the first very important swallow in the digitization of health care since the 1989 revolution. ereceptRecipe has been very helpful in dealing with the covid crisis along with the eneschopenka. The patient's shared drug record brings patients higher safety. Compensation of therapeutic cannabis, i.e. increased availability of therapeutic cannabis for patients suffering from chronic pain. That should impress the pirát, for example. Isn't it? New regulation of payment of medical devices for vouchers, i.e. much more paid medical aids, implementation of the European Anti-Fraud Regulation, increased protection of patients against counterfeit drugs, which is quite a key issue nowadays. The conclusion of contracts for the operation of air rescue services for eight years. Who remembers this from past periods, an almost unsolvable thing. [[16.40 hours]] And transparency and investigation? Joint purchases of hospitals and thus generated significant cost savings for health establishments. New rules for public contracts and return bonuses in hospitals. Once upon a time, it was also a big subject. Transparent decision-making on purchases of expensive equipment. That wasn't working for the previous governments at the hospitals either. Checks in directly managed organisations. Fair conciliation between providers and insurance companies across all segments of providers, repeatedly in succession. A significant reduction in the administration for paramedics. Subsidy for practitioners and dentists in remote areas. The birthing center at the hospital in Bulovka. The creation of three pilot specialised centres for rare diseases. Support for endangered rural pharmacies. What else? The approved payment decree, which respects the outcome of the conciliation procedure. There has been a record increase in payment of all segments of health care. According to the payment decree, CZK 340 billion goes to health care. So 29 billion extra and another 6 of the balance of health insurance companies. So it was 35 billion. Ten percent more total payment, then. More available dental care. This is the care of the so-called "insurer and child care." New performances related to primary care reform, such as seizures of dementia and prediabet. For outpatient specialists, remuneration for fulfilment of qualitative criteria, for physiotherapists Bonnification for treatment of more demanding insured people, for ambulances valorization of transport performances and the creation of indicators for measuring effective care. Wage increase in home care by up to CZK 10,000 and bonification for demanding patients. And we're moving on. Increase the number of accepted students of medical faculties. This is where I'd like to stop by. There is an 11-year plan to increase the capacity of medical faculties by 15 percent. It's on. Grant programmes for practitioners. They promote gradual and targeted increases in health remuneration. We heard the numbers here today. Primary care reform. A new system of residential places, the return of doctors after studies back to the regions. A questionnaire investigation into the satisfaction of non-medical health professionals has been carried out. Increase the competence of nurses and increase the prestige of their profession. A subsidy programme to support the emergence of kindergartens and children's groups in hospitals. Scholarships for students of health schools and medical faculties. And that's not all, let's keep going. We created the first ever concept of urgent care in the Czech Republic and discussed grant support for the creation of a network of 78 urgent revenues. This will create a state-owned network of emergency services in regional and district cities. For the first time, urgent care will have a clear structure and standards. There will be 15 large emergency devices and 78 urgent second-type revenues. It's a úhradový-as-you-go. Already for 2020, it has provided a significant financial injection for those CZK 2 billion. The aim of the new emergency care model is to systematically provide care for acute patients in all regions under 24-hour permanent availability seven days a week. There'll be emergency medical services for every emergency. Does anyone else feel that we didn't do enough at the time of our ancestors? And that the ministry for the minister's leadership was unsuccessful? You really can't tell me that. Then came the covid. Nobody, I repeat, nobody in the whole world ever thought anything like this could happen. But it did. A worldwide pandemic. Nobody had the recipe. Outside of our opposition, that is. She would have solved it quickly and perfectly. Okay, let's just explain this first and foremost a little bit about what happened after months. January 2020. During January, the disease has not yet affected the Czech Republic. However, the first precautionary measure has already been taken, in particular the tightening of passenger checks at Václav Havel Airport. At that time the Ministry was preparing for further measures, while the Czech Republic acted in accordance with the World Health Organization. There's no cause for alarm yet. Remember? At that time, Prime Minister Babiš was criticized of the opposition for not wanting to send medical supplies to China to help fight the epidemic. At the end of the day, 4.5 tons were sent. Then came the criticism that help was sent. You just can't please the opposition. February. At the end of February, it was generally assumed that the departure to ski resorts in northern Italy and Austria was smooth. From there, the Coronavirus began to spread to the Czech Republic and other countries. When we wanted to cut it down, the opposition screamed. Limiting freedom. Well, you know. From the Ministry sends a letter to the regions with a call for the regions to be supplied with medical supplies and protective equipment. And the result? Well, I don't want to comment much. We've all overslept - state, county and hospital. March. That's when it started. On 1 March the first three cases of COVID-19 in the Czech Republic were confirmed. A total of 3 257 cases were confirmed from 1 to 31 March. More than 50,000 people were then tested during March. What were the state's measures? For example, a World Cup event in a biathlon without spectators. It's a huge subject. The opposition has another theme for harsh criticism. Instead of being a little understanding, nothing again. For March, there was more than a characteristic lack of protective equipment for both health professionals and the entire population. They were just nowhere. The whole world tried to buy them at the same time. It was shopping for what it was and what it was for. And that's for one reason - to protect the paramedics and the more fearless groups. That's just the way it was. The quantities of protective equipment increased significantly only after deliveries from China. A hundred tons of material to the airport went to take over the Minister of Interior and the Prime Minister. It was a huge relief for the citizens. Once again, for the opposition, stick to the government. duben. On 7 April, the Chamber of Deputies approved an extension of the emergency situation to the Government until 30 April. On 24 April the Government issued a revised timetable for the release of business activities, which was shortened by two weeks compared to the previous version, with a final date of 25 May. Dislodgement in schools, school facilities and social care was started in stages until the end of June. May. At the turn of April and May, the number of recoverys from the covid began to permanently exceed the number of active cases. Since May were allowed mass events with attendance of up to 100 people. The Ministry kept working on the arrangements. June and July. At the beginning of summer 2020, the number of COVID-19 disease infected was increased again. Relaxing brought what was expected. Some even celebrated on Charles Bridge. The Ministry kept working on the arrangements. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš set up the Council of the Government on 27 July for Health Risks. August. In August it was announced that as of 1 September, the Czech Republic will be obliged to wear drapes in indoor spaces, means of public transport and internal mass events. The measures were expected to last until March 2021. This was a shout from opposition benches and some medical capacities! Limiting freedom, it's not necessary and so on. One part of the experts said so and the other part said so. By seeking opposition proposals, the media played a public and indelible role. So, in the end, milder rules were adopted. Thus, the drapes will be mandatory from September onwards at the offices and authorities of the administration, in health and social facilities and everywhere in public transport. It's glowing. At the beginning of September, the number of infected in the Czech Republic again exceeded the threshold of 5,000. And the statement that nothing happened in September because of the election? Big mistake. For example, September 9th was introduced in Prague the obligation of drapes in shops and shopping centres. From midnight to 6:00 in the morning, catering facilities, including bars and nightclubs, were closed. Was that really supposed to help us in the election? Nobody really thought about that at the time. Perhaps only our opposition again. Since September 10 people have had to wear drapes in the interior of buildings all over the Czech Republic. On September 17, health minister Adam Vojtěch announced that he would soon tighten up measures against the epidemic, that the obligation to wear drapes can return outside and that the capacity of internal events, for example, can be reduced from 100 to 50 people, and that social contacts can also be reduced by ensuring separations, such as in restaurants. This is just a demonstration of how we were supposedly doing nothing because of the elections that took place in October. [[16.50 hours]] Proceeding. Since September 21, distance instruction has been introduced at universities in Prague except for practical teaching. In Prague and Central Bohemia, it is an obligation to wear mouth protection and nose protection outside. And the result? On 30 September the government declared emergency status in the Czech Republic from 5 October for a period of 30 days. I mean, the claim that we dropped everything before the election and let it go is a lie like a tower. October. The Ministry of Health updated the coronavirus traffic light. For patients with COVID-19 and urgent care, 10,000 hospital beds were allocated. A system was created for sharing medical personnel and capacities for stabilized patients. President Zeman referred to wearing a mask as the only weapon at the time, which was true at the time. And since October 21, there has been an obligation to wear drapes if people are less than two metres apart. November. On 4 November there were 15 729 new cases of coronavirus, to which day most from the beginning of the pandemic. At the same time, the proportion of positive tests was almost 35 percent, which has been the highest since the start of the epidemic. Since November, restrictions on the number of people have been introduced in shops: one person had to have space of 15 m2. The regulation was once again part of the new PES antiepidemic system. Again followed by criticism of the opposition and subsequent throwing sticks underfoot. December. The total number of patients recovered from COVID-19 disease was 455 000 confirmed cases at the beginning of December. Then there was more than half a million. Following the Government's meeting on 10 December, it was announced that the emergency situation would be extended until 23 December. Once again, it's a huge criticism that we don't really need it. On 20 December the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic announced that with effect from 21 December the Czech Republic cancelled all flights from the United Kingdom to the country. The reason was the new strain of coronavirus that appeared here. The British mutation was approaching. I'm bohužel so. January 2021. As of January 15, 874 605 were officially registered in the Czech Republic and 14 029 deaths at that time. And as of 15 January, the registration and reservation website for vaccinations for seniors over the age of 80 was launched. Once again, we are gathered here in the Chamber of Deputies on account of the emergency situation until 14 February 2021. Again, according to the opposition, there was no need. And instead of being united, the famous stick throwing again. February. On 3 February, the number of confirmed cases in the Czech Republic exceeded symbolically a million infected. On 11 February the Chamber of Deputies did not symbolically prolong the emergency situation. Incomprehensible to me. Fortunately, on 14 February, the government extended the emergency situation at the request of the commanders. But it was at the request of the chieftains. It was because the government's responsibility for resolving the covid crisis in their regions fell on the authorities by not extending it in the House. And all of a sudden, it worked. Luckily. The reason for the further expansion of the virus was continued pandemic fatigue to the public and, in particular, the dominant representation of the rapidly spreading British mutation. March. In March, the government approved compulsory testing in companies with more than ten employees. On 22 March the partial lockdown announced by the government on 1 March was extended. Newly, though, it was possible to sport or go for a walk in the territory of the district. The restrictions on movement, also very critical, have proved to be effective within the district. This was demonstrated in the districts in Karlovy Vary and Králové Hradec Region, for example. duben. In April, on the basis of improved parameters, the government released some of the measures. At the same time, the emergency situation ended and with it the prohibition of travel between districts or curfew between 21 and 5 am and others. May. We're getting back to normal. Massive vaccination, among other things. In September 2020, the Ministry of Health and the State Institute of Health issued the first vaccination strategy for a professional discussion, another modified version just before the end of the year. So the strategy was discussed, among other things, at the edges. All the counties approved it. But then we learned from the media that the regions are wondering what is actually written in the strategy or what is missing there. Kind of weird. Where are we at the beginning of June? You could say it's great. The numbers of patients are dropping, both new occurrence and numbers in hospitals, in ICUs, on artificial ventilation, fortunately the numbers of dying. Let's not mess this up and proceed with caution. We've made mistakes in the past, let's learn from them. The goal of the strategy is to inoculate at least 70 percent of people. Nearly 4 million people are vaccinated at least once, i.e. 38 percent of the population and about 50 percent of those who can now be vaccinated, i.e. over 16 years of age. The vaccination of half a million people a week continues. The point is not to over-politicize and encourage interest in vaccination. It's the only way to beat this disease. After all, we know about other diseases that once decimated mankind. All of this now under the leadership of the ancient minister Vojtěch, who resigned at the time of the massive spread of the epidemic and returns at the time of its suppression. It is a symbolic return at a time when, on the one hand, it is necessary to control the burning epidemic, but on the other hand, to follow up on the successful years of office at the head of the resort and to implement the House prepared by health legislation until the end of this parliamentary term. In my opinion, Minister Vojtěch is a good solution for this task. On the basis of this brief assessment of the Government's health activities, I want to demonstrate inconclusiveness and I am not afraid to say the irresponsibleness of the opposition MEP's proposal to express distrust to the government. And here, a little in response to Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, I would like to use the citation of Professor Václav Hořejšý, the immunologist from the Institute of Molecular Genetics of the Academy of Sciences. And he said it exactly. I quote: "The opposition has tried, as it could, to throw sticks under the government, and its current cry is hypocritical. The opposition repeatedly demanded mitigation and interference with antiepidemic measures, blocking the government's use of emergency conditions. If the government acted according to the opposition's demands, there would be twice as many dead." It's just about the number of dead people. Unfortunately, these words to the opposition apply not only in relation to the coronavirus crisis and its solution, but also to the Vrbětice case as well as to today's demonstration of distrust by the government. A typical example is the statement by the President of the Pirates, an honored fellow Member and a candidate for opposition to Prime Minister Ivan Bartoš, for the N Diary of late April. I quote: "At a time when the Czech Republic banishes Russian diplomats, the expression of distrust to the government would be a bad sign for allies in the EU and in NATO." So Diary N wrote that the President of the Pirates considered the government's distrust to be irresponsible. For iToday, the President of the Pirates said at the end of April - I quote: "In view of the steps that our government has taken towards the Russian Federation in connection with the closure of the Vrbětice case, I am convinced that it is not in the interests of the Czech Republic to implement this step in the House field." And I ask: Mr Bartoš, who convinced you otherwise and to change your mind? Is this just because of voting preferences, or do you want to actively serve foreign propaganda? Today, Mr. Bartoš, here at this point, spoke on the subject: we must stop the crazy ride of predator Babiš. It evokes my question: and what kind of ride would our republic expect with you? Pirates know what a hell of a ride is. Thank you. We don't want to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. With factual remarks, there are four Members. First, Mr Marian Jurečka will appear and Mr Pavel žáček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u77	Thank you, Mr President. I am really going to respond to Mr Mašek's fellow Member here, who has just spoken. I felt like he was speaking as a member, for example. Taiwan's parliament, when it described how great the government did it. If we look at the results of the government's strategy, the numbers of the dead, and when I mentioned wan, let's make a comparison. 24.5 million people in Taiwan, 14 victims per covid by last week. Czech Republic 10,5 and we know the number, it's more than 30,000, unfortunately, and I think that everyone in our families has someone who unfortunately left before he had to. I'm not saying - and I'm going to argue with you here - that there were no moments when we didn't praise the government. Google it: the opposition appreciated the government's actions. You'll find a lot of moments when we said, that's a step that's right. But there's been a lot of moments in the last 13 months when we've asked the government: make that move, make it sooner. Let us remember July last year, this House's resolution on government and Minister Adam Vojtěch. Case OKD, Karvin. A demonstration that after the first wave, the testing, tracing system doesn't work. Autumn requests for more intensive testing. This escalated situation around the end of an emergency. After that, you started testing at the companies we asked you for two and a half months earlier. Testing in schools. Please don't tell me the opposition didn't do anything. A lot of people sewed drapes, I delivered several thousand drapes, I carried them for example. also to Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute in Brno, where volunteers sewed it. We did everything we could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Pavel Žáček, Mr Jan Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u79	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I have to respond to a completely absurd statement, as if the opposition were in GRU's pay, GRU, as our Czechoslovak Prime Minister says. [[to put it gé-er-u]] [[to say gru]] This government has been cooperating and living from the support of the KSČM, the largest Russian colony in our Parliament, which can be. I can mention the desperate effort of this two-one minister of this government to assign the completion of Dukovan to the Rus. I think it's completely absurd, and I certainly wouldn't have brought it here. I'll comment on that in my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u80	Mr Jan Volný, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I will just say at the start that I see criticism of the opposition as possible, it allows it to be done by the Constitution, doing simply the work of the opposition. But please don't lie, and if you're expressing yourself, let it be a competent person to the competent things. I would like to point out, through Mr President, Mr Jakob of the TOP 09, when he numbered the billions that Agrofert receives each year as a subsidy, and when Mr Feranec of the YES pointed out to him that it is important what subsidies they are, he said: it doesn't matter at all, it is so huge money and such a huge conflict of interest that it doesn't matter. - My colleague, it's obvious that you're using completely false and incompetent arguments. Please, it matters because out of the billions of 99.9999 % it is the money and the entitlement subsidy that every farmer receives on a cultivated hectare. And that money would have been given to agricultural holdings associated in Agrofert, even if the Prime Minister had not been thought of, but Ferda was an mravenec. So please be correct and don't lie here that it's absolutely irrelevant what subsidies they are. It's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u82	So another comment will be made by Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, and Mr Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Mašek, who mentioned me in his speech. He accused the opposition that if we were in charge, it would be even worse. Firstly, it must be reiterated that, according to available data, we are the third or fourth worst in the world, that it would be very difficult to achieve an even worse result than this government has achieved. But it's just on the edge. But what I wanted to say. Mr. Mašek was constantly operating here with the thesis, as it was necessary for all emergency conditions, as everything needed to be tightened up and that we would not be so strong, so we would kill people. That was basically his thesis. But the problem is, you've been treating citizens like subordinates the whole time. Even in a number of cases, your ministers said it didn't work because citizens don't follow something, etc. Instead, we had to treat people as partners and take meaningful measures that would be relatively easy and understandable to respect. As soon as you close the shop and leave the supermarkets open, don't be surprised that people will find your measures crazy. And those examples were a million when you authorized the sale of coffee, but you banned it from drinking, or vice versa, and you fixed it three times. It's just that there's been so much skandrian, everything's been announced day in advance, every system you've put in place, PES or Mr. Arenberger's system, you've canceled in three weeks without saying it. And then you're surprised that keeping those measures is low. It was simply necessary to treat citizens as equals and to show them some strategy and make sense of the measures. And now, after you're the third worst in the world, attacking opposition is pathetic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u84	Mr Marian Jurečka, Mr Jiří Mašek will be ready. All factual points. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. I was actually invited here by my colleague, Mr Volný, to perform because he responded here to Mr Jakob's colleague on the question of the subsidies. Because I think I wear a little bit of those numbers in my head, and if you look at Agrofert's annual report, for example. In 2017, the total revenues for the subsidies were CZK 1, 351 million and the investment was CZK 607 million, so about half of the volume of the subsidies were the investment subsidies, not the entitlement grants. So it's about half that amount, it's definitely not enough. I've said it x-times in many interviews: since 2002, when I started farming in college, I've never asked for a crown of investment subsidies in all this time. I've never done it, not even yet, and as long as I'm in politics, I'm not gonna do it. Because the politician, whether he wants to or doesn't want to, whatever he's dealing with, whether he's honest or dishonest, he's just in this imaginary conflict of interest and he has to avoid it because he decides on budgets, decides on priorities, decides on the composition of the monitoring committee, etc. and it just can't be explained here. So I think it would be fair for the Prime Minister to either say, "I'm either in business or I'm in politics - but these things together, if they decide on such huge amounts of investment subsidies, it's definitely not working out. So it's not a small amount, it's not a negligible amount, it's a very significant amount.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u86	Mr Jiří Mašek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u87	Thank you. I'll just respond to my colleague Ferjenčík, the deaths. It's hard for me to talk about it here. Of course, I understand that 30,000 maybe the death toll in this republic is a terrible number. But at the same time, I can tell you and I can assure you that in the Czech Republic there is much more testing than in some surrounding countries, and therefore also in the deceased, for example. at the death toll, because the death toll is a comparison of some same time period in five years before that time period this year, it may be a day, a week, a month, but it's a clear comparison, so we're far from the worst in the death toll. But we're in this reporting, because we're honest about it, for example. Polák show about 30 to 40 percent of this. It's about the testing. And all that, Mr. Ferjenčík, I wouldn't want to fence with the dead here, I'm a doctor and I fight and I've always fought for every human life. And I also consider that in the fight in the epidemic, which has not yet said perhaps the very last - and I very much wish that we could do all this in the fall. But I mean, let's keep the evaluation after it's really calculated, seriously compared, and let's not argue with unsubstantiated numbers here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I would simply ask you to address each other through the President to do what is necessary for the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak with a factual remark and Mr David Kasal will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I would like to ask my colleague Mašek, by your means, when he calls on us not to fight with any numbers, so that he does not say how many dead people would be here if the opposition were to rule. Because it's completely out of hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. Member David Kasal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will turn to Mr. Ferjenčík through you and touch the statistics. At first, all over the world, mortality was reported. And that counts - the number of sick and the number of dead. And because it was up to 10 percent in some states, big states, statistics began to be used to 100 thousand from a certain point of time, and the number changed very strongly. So look for politics elsewhere too, that's outside the Czech Republic. And this is the only indicator that also shows how the health system handled all three waves. You haven't seen anything like this here in Bologna, you haven't seen anything like this here in New York, because in New York, maybe there was an appendicitis. The paramedics did that, and they're very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak with a factual remark. I will read the apology, Mr Jan Richter apologizes today between 16 and 18 for family reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to my colleague Kasal. Unfortunately, that's not entirely true. What happened in Cheb really happened there was a multiple increase in mortality against other counties. To multiple increases. There really was an overload in the health system, and you didn't let those people into those hospitals in Germany just so you wouldn't mess up government PR. That was a scandalous government failure! And there really was a multiple increase in mortality in those regions where the pandemic went completely out of control and overloaded the health system. So it's not true that we would avoid it here. Unfortunately, that's exactly what happened in Chebsk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u94	Mr Tomáš Martínek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. I just want to ask you what you meant by recounting to 100,000, because if I look at the recount to a million inhabitants, we're still the fourth worst, even if I count to a million inhabitants. At this point, it's 2,809 deaths per million inhabitants. Only Peru, Hungary and Bosnia and Herzegovina are worse. I don't know exactly what that meant. Otherwise, according to experts, the 30,000 reported deaths, on the contrary, not all deaths are included. So even based on what the mortality rate was, it looks more like a higher number than it's officially reported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u97	I will respond to a colleague, through you, who has just spoken. I'll explain exactly. Because I'm not talking about the numbers of 100 grand or a million. I told you the number of deaths per number of patients with the disease. That's a completely different number and a completely different number. And at the beginning, the situation around the world was clearly monitored. Then they came up with these numbers. I'll explain later. As for this Cheb, Mr Ferjenčík through Mr President, you did not address me that way before, so the problem of crossing the border line was so great from a bureaucratic point of view, take the transfer to Poland too, it was the same thing. And you're wrong about people lying there in the hallways dying. That's how it was in Bologna, you could have gone there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher will speak in the debate. Mrs Zuzana Majerová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u99	Good afternoon. Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Members, it is our turn as our fellow Members come, so they are all tired both here in the hall and certainly also the viewers on television, but frankly I take it as such a celebration of democracy, this here. I'm gonna surprise you, and I don't mean that ironically, simply suggesting a distrust speech to the government is a sacred right of the opposition, it can do that. When he feels that way, he's supposed to do it. It's okay, it's her supreme right, and there's no limit to the opposition in this. At the same time, I'm asking myself a question - and I'm always looking for some kind of elementary logic, in this case, I'm missing a plan B that's going to follow. Some sense, that's what I miss, too, because in this case, a lot of things can't be done before the election, and some effect. I am referring, for example, to a proposal for some other programming or thematic priority. I don't think it's either today. And I'm not evaluating the quality of the government right now, but now the process of why this point is here today. Why is there a common distrust of the government? I see three basic points. Either the opposition has its majority and wants to build up its government, which will do better, which will be smarter, wiser, will know how to do it. I don't know if that's the situation. I didn't hear there was a new aspirant for the Prime Minister. I didn't hear any names. If you have those names, I'd ask if I could see them. The second reason is to initiate early elections. That's legitimate, too. It happens sometimes, and it probably wouldn't be new. Let's look at Italy. However, this is not even the case, because at this point, in principle, I think it is not even theoretically possible. And if, theoretically, that were to happen, you would have made it to Guinessův' record book, because to provoke early elections a few weeks before the proper elections, I don't think that happened anywhere, so not even to initiate early elections. Then I think about coming up with some of my serious content issues, such as the introduction of the euro. Maybe. This isn't the case either, because the coalitions that have been formed before the elections will not agree on these fundamental things, such as the introduction of the euro or the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, even within that coalition. After all, we had a few votes here on these fundamental things, and the members of those two coalitions differed in the way they voted. I'll remind you of the super gross wage, I'll remind you of the exercise of territoriality, the euro - we have different opinions about it, marriages for everyone, and so on. That means it's not even that. Notabene's plan B also applies that it would be good to know, therefore, that when distrust is expressed to the government, what will be the next steps of the President of the Republic, who then has it in his hands. One part of the opposition says he doesn't want to take risks, the other part: let's voice distrust to the government regardless. There is no consensus in this view either, because you do not know at this time, or it is not foreseen what the President of the Republic will do. And what if the President of the Republic appointed someone to be criticized even more than Andrej Babiš? What's the point? I would have asked at that moment. If you don't know what the next step will be. [[17.20 hours]] It's fair, and I admit that I said those things in TV debates where I confronted opposition representatives, and they said -- they actually admitted it -- that it's neither, but it's a symbol. That it's a symbol that the government gets distrust and takes control of demise. So, actually, that's what it's supposed to be. There is no plan B, there will be no early elections, there will be no new government and there will be a government in demise. And that's going to be a symbol. If that were true, I would ask you, colleagues, why didn't you sign up for the request that lies here, I suspect, since March, don't take my word for it, from the SPD. After all, you could have called it a long time ago, and even the theoretical one would have opened up now, before the practical possibility of the early elections. I have an idea what it is, what it is. Because even the opposition is divided into the right and the wrong, so signing up for the wrong is probably not media gratitude. So, as you expected, you did it yourself -- all right -- you didn't sign up for another opposition party, but then it shook up again between you, because the other part of the coalition said, let's just dissolve the Chamber of Deputies. Only after the expulsion of Russian diplomats did you agree on this, that was 31 May, and so today we have this point. That means, for me, you can say it, I don't think you like it, and I'm not gonna be like Jan Jakob convincing you here what to think, what to do with ČSSD and the like - I don't dare tell you how the TOP 09 would turn out if it wasn't in the coalition - but there isn't even a symbol for me. So my hypothesis is that it's good - and I don't take it from you, I say, I consider it part of democracy, parliamentary democracy. For me, it's just that there are these issues of criticism that can be kept in that public space for a while. Anti-Babish is enough to form coalitions, yes, it makes you blind nicely, because the topics are clearly not - the big topics so you don't catch me at the word, not the individual ones. It's not big topics, but it's not enough to keep an eye out until the election. There were two big topics, and they just melted away. It was the covid and now, fortunately, how it improves very significantly, that the numbers are now the smallest in the world and we are releasing the fastest, and I will not repeat it because my colleague Jiří Mašek described it beautifully here a month after a month. And so the subject is no longer interesting. You can't build on that as if it's a campaign critic at all costs. And speaking of criticism at all costs, here I'll remind you there's another way to do opposition work. I'm here in the coalition, but in Prague, I'm in opposition. And I remember very well, and you can verify that we, as the opposition, were offering an active cooperation coalition, we were offering to have the council and other committee meetings run in a completely different format, precisely because covid, because there are important things, solutions to save health and lives, that we did not interfere with the criticism at all costs in order to open up topics that were secondary at that time, however important for the Praguens in general - transport, housing and so on. Ask me about it. We offered to go in half the format where we put the votes forward, because there's a vote not from here, but there's always half of all the representatives. So the opposition work can be done in such a way that when there is an emergency situation, and the emergency situation was, it doesn't have to be a completely dynamite criticism of catching a word at all costs. Then there was the theme of Vrbětic. That's what we all felt was ready for, as if in quotes, the pro-Russian government wouldn't dare banish those diplomats in that number as we wish. And all of a sudden, all the Democrats' dreams have come true in the last 20 years, and we've evened out the number of diplomats here. And all of a sudden, the subject is gone. He's gone. Because there's nothing to criticize. So it discovered what? There's an article in relation to Secretary Hamáček. I would like to illustrate how politics can be done. When this policy is done based on media output. I renamed the coalition in Prague that it was a coalition of newspaper headlines, here it is, I'd say, the opposition's reaction to newspaper headlines. That's right, because an article came out on the List about Minister Hamáčka, and without anyone asking anyone, there was an extraordinary press conference instantly in response to the article - not in response to any events, to the article - a request for an extraordinary meeting of the House. In this spirit, if Václav Klaus was an older member of the government, we have it again. That was the article about him sending a billion dollars after the revolution. If you look here, the article is changing, changing, changing, changing the headlines and everything. I wonder how that would go. That would be an extraordinary meeting here, and eventually it would be discovered that the article is actually completely different, it changes perex, etc. You can check it out. So I don't think that's the way to react for me. That means taking one article, building it on it and doing the politics. By the way, until today, what was in that text is simply not confirmed. It's not. And I'm not defending all of Minister Hamáček's performances. Absolutely. So one more time. This point is legitimate, it's okay, I just miss the B that's gonna follow. It is quite easy to instigate and pronounce distrust to the government, then it will take about an hour to vote, but when it comes to what happens next. I just don't think the responsible opposition can handle the government's demise, we're driving like it's not falling apart, and we've got the stamp on the symbol we wanted to put here. That may be so, but I don't think it's enough. It's not enough for me. And now, to end up positive, and it wasn't just about the opposition, because I'm a positive-minded person, so I'd make such a bite out of it, brief. I could have it for an hour and a half that this government has succeeded in protecting consumers, so it's something we've been through. And the MP doesn't have to worry, I'll make it short. You see, I don't read it, I'm going down the street, so don't worry, it'll be the last few minutes. So we have approved several amendments to the insolvency law to - and I must say here that, in cooperation with opposition Members, it is not a minus, but if the government had not cooperated and we had not gone across here, we would again be criticized that something was going on, so I take it as positive that it was often in cooperation or even in activity very distinctive with some opposition Members. But the important thing is who shot it, the subject, because the problem with the executions, the insolvencys, they've been here for 20 years. So, twice the amended insolvency law. I'm not gonna say all the changes that cultivate the market by execution or by execution. We've increased the unforgivable amount repeatedly. Children's executions have been canceled. I'm not gonna say... Often in cooperation with the opposition. I see Marek the Výborný, who walks around nervously, so I'm gonna point it out this way, fair and square. [[17.30 hours]] The institute of a protected account has been established. Those last two things could have been here ten, 15 years ago, they're here at this moment. An amendment to the Electronic Communications Act has been adopted. Perhaps to facilitate the transition of clients to mobile operators. To cancel the fines. It turned into magazine scumbags. Now we're discussing an amendment to the Energy Act that deals with energy scumbags. From the area of consumer protection, I would recall the topic of taxi drivers that we discussed here. Guides, real estate brokers and, last but not least, dishonest exchange offices that bothered us very much here in Prague. And that was the introduction of mine. Cancel options. These are all things that went to consumer protection. Yes, it could have been even better, that's true. You can see here that I'm not cheering either, I'm not jumping two meters. For example, I miss the institute of mass lawsuits. But then, unfortunately, the covid came into it. It's just, in the last year, we've been having extraordinary meetings, it's been moving on and on and on and on and on and on. And you know, like, you know, I'm a pain in the ass here, and it's been pushing for six months. So some things just didn't make it, and they're waiting for the next term. As well as strengthening the position of out-of-court authorities. So I think that in the area of consumer protection, in the area of enforcement, insolvency, it's done a lot, and I think that in this and in the future, the period of this government in this area will remember that it was a big shift. Big shift for me. That was a big shift. This means that if we go to the individual topics and maybe other colleagues in other areas apply, we'll find that it's not news headlines, because no one cares about the non-controversial topics, it doesn't conflict, but it really helps people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u100	Thank you, too. And we have factual remarks here, so Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková will wait a little longer. Mr Marek Výborný, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear government, colleagues, I must say that I have had enough after all these hours. From the beginning, from the moment that Andrej Babiš appeared here, we are hearing now from our colleague Nacher about how the opposition behaves inconstructively, how it cannot come up with any suggestions, etc. So I would really ask you to stop training what the opposition is supposed to do constructively or inconclusively. Again, let me remind you: tens, perhaps hundreds of concrete proposals that we brought here at the time of the covid, when we went where we needed to go - helping families, parents, children in schools - solving specific problems that burned all citizens of the Czech Republic at the time. So don't lie here! All of you! Babish starting, Nacher quit! [[He speaks strongly, loudly.]] Don't lie here that we haven't come up with any constructive proposals. Really, I'm sick of this place. [[Several Members from the benches on the left are pounding into the tables.]] I think it's good to do these things honestly. And to my colleague Nacher, through Mr President, you have the Ministry of Finance for eight years. You've had the Justice Department for eight years. Then why couldn't you solve the execution? Why haven't you been able to solve insolvency today? Why must Mr Nacher and Mr Výborný come along with proposals that will at least make things right? And it was a light run on a pitchfork. We have here an amendment to the insolvency law, which had to be discussed during this parliamentary term. Who blocked it? The ANO movement's MP's club. So I'd be careful if we were here to tell what went wrong or failed in this field. And the last thing, absolutely factual, because it's repeated here. To my colleague Nacher: Don't fight here with the early elections! You all know very well that these were never really possible, because the effectiveness of the new electoral law is from 1 July, and 90 days before the proper elections under the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it is not possible to make early elections. So the only possible term was between 1 July and 7 July. So it's not that it didn't go at all, absolutely, of course not. [[Attention on time.]] But it really was out of the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for keeping time and for reaching out to me in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Miloslav Janulík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna respond to my colleague Nacher. First of all, he may have been confused because it was no problem for us to agree on a joint agenda with our partners from the Mayors. You can find it at www.piratiastarostove.cz/program. And we agreed without any problems both on the territoriality of executions and on the entry into ERM II, which is not the euro, but it is a step towards reducing the cost of government debt management, and on a lot of other things, so there really was no problem. Otherwise, as regards our activity during the epidemic, for example, my colleague Martínek was involved in delaying the repayment term for mortgages and other loans in the time of coronavirus. And we continued to work, for example. In order to ensure that the compensation bonus applies to contractors, so that the compensation bonus is not excluded for people who have been teaching at the same time as a small-time job and are otherwise businessmen. We contributed to delaying the EET for a longer period of time, as did the retail industry. We were discussing, for example, the issue of opening up farmers' markets. Those particular initiatives, and now I'm just talking about things that, at least somehow, have succeeded. Otherwise, unfortunately, most of them succeeded despite the YES movement. But there were a lot of initiatives. Some of them went well, most of the time, unfortunately, you kept it quiet. Sometimes the government presented it as their own proposal. But it's really not true that we don't cooperate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. Mr Miloslav Janulík, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u105	Thank you for the floor. There's no need to call a saint. I'm just a foreman, you guys are really great, but it's not a nomen omen. This subliminal dehoness you're using here is a popular method of Czech television that people only call themselves by their last name. So I would like to ask you, really, through the President, a little decency. And I'd just add to what you said here that it's great that you have great ideas. But that's what you have to do, colleague, to win the election! When you win this election, you're gonna realize your ideas. Because you didn't win them, you're in opposition, so they're just not real or they're not real. So when you win, please make your ideas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. And Mr Patrik Nacher, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u107	Always, colleagues, it is certain that when one of the government MPs comes out, there are five factual ones. I didn't have enough to take notes, so I don't know if I'm gonna answer everything. First, I will remind you that in the previous government - that is for a colleague of Marek Výborný - there was also KDU-ČSL. Just so we understand each other. Since we're here, who's been in charge for how long? I'm not gonna remind you, I'm not gonna return the same coin, I don't want to do it, who approved it here 20 years ago. The execution order. But it doesn't matter. Otherwise, to my colleague Ferjenčík through Mr President. I wasn't talking about your pirát Society, STAN. I mean, you guys are good for each other. I wasn't talking. You can watch it. First of all, I have spoken in general, but I have come across colleagues from the SPOL, who, the two subjects, have different views on the euro and, for example, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. That means the basic position documents or the routing. That's what I'm for. So I'm the word pirát, STAN, I didn't say. If I say it, I'm sorry about that, because you guys are really good together. It's programmed for you, and that's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u108	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Vít Kaňkovský is also registered. I don't see him here, so with priority rights, President Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u109	It's a shame we're not moving on, but I'm happy to have fun here. Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, honourable Members, I am now slightly confused. Through the President, Mr Nacher urged cooperation, and through the President, Mr Janulík, on the contrary, said that when we are in the opposition, no matter what ideas we want, let us go, because basically when we win the elections, our ideas... Perhaps you should first, friends of the coalition, agree on what you mean by that, whether we are working together, or should we hide our ideas when we win the election. And I am extremely pleased, and I am truly glad that the coalition YES, the ČSSD with the support of the communists is united in its position on the euro - I hope that this is the position of the communists - and also of the Istanbul Convention. I am extremely pleased with the unity in the coalition. I am glad that he is united in other attitudes. We'll see in the next votes. If I had argued in the same way through Mr President as Mr Nacher, I would have used some material which is supposed to have been circulating here for several months and concerning the Government's demise, it is exactly the same as why Mr Nacher did not send through Mr President, he did not sign a bill to compensate the victims of 1969. It's simple. Because I didn't find enough time and patience to sign it. If I came to him and asked him because he's a decent man and I respect him, I'm convinced he'd sign it. Never, never! I wouldn't dare tell him he didn't sign a document just because he wasn't asked to. And as Chairman of the TOP 09 Club, no one has ever offered me to put my signature under this similar meeting as ours. I wasn't asked to do that. If any movement, any party initiated something like this, then I would expect the party chairman or club chairman to come to me and say, do you want to add signatures to this call, under this extraordinary meeting? That's how it works here. As far as cooperation is concerned, I really find it very incorrect to my person to challenge cooperation. I've really tried and I'm trying, and I'd expect the Minister of Health to confirm that, to cooperate. I'm trying, I'm trying to be correct. The AntiCovid team has repeatedly offered cooperation to ministers - health ministers. And it's not my fault that before we were able to meet at the meeting, the Prime Minister called them off. It's not my fault! We met with Minister Blatný, who lasted longer than his predecessors. Speaking of which, when things started to work out, boom, and Minister Arenberger showed up. I hope, and now, publicly, so that the audience can hear it, so that you colleagues can hear it, so that you, dear, dear and dear ministers, can hear it. I offer the cooperation of AntiCovid to the team. If this government continues, I am ready and the entire AntiCovid team is ready to cooperate. But I don't know the Prime Minister's summer and autumn schedule as regards the occupation of the Ministry of Health. And it's possible that in two weeks, three weeks, we'll have a new Minister of Health again. And it's not gonna be my fault that this cooperation isn't gonna work. So please, please, let's not do things that are unnecessarily irritating to technical and other comments. Let's move on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u110	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Several times. Of course you have to win the election so you can implement your program. I repeat here for the KDU-ČSL and for the coalition of the COO, that we were aware and we are aware of the emergency situation. That is why we have not politicised, which is why we have tried to offer our expertise and cooperation to the government. We were approached by entrepreneurs, families, simply by people who were affected or had some know-how that just wanted us to move on, but unfortunately it's not the House that decided on measures, but the government. And we tried to offer cooperation to the government as opposition. So I'd like to moderate the arrogant statements about winning the election a little bit. Yes, but we were aware of the emergency situation and did not just want to warm up party soup. At least admit it. Look at the way we've been acting. Maximum constructively and openly. And the fact that we're still hearing about how we've abused the situation today, I'm really, really sorry, but it's a lie!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u112	Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u113	[[Notes from the diaper.]] Thank you for the floor. I think that, Mr Vice-President, we should all behave both in the hall and here at the counter in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please don't yell at me. By your means, Mr President, to my colleague, Mr Janulík. We take your advice as a coalition to heart, and we really win the election. The second thing about my colleague, Nacher, is that I respond really. When the Vice-President, my colleague, spoke here about why we did not call for the vote earlier, it was precisely because we, as a coalition of the COO, clearly said that we were also aware of the responsibility for the situation that was in the Czech Republic. That is, in a situation where there was an emergency, we clearly said that in this situation this would be irresponsible. But in a situation where the government obviously does not have confidence, which the Communists have already announced, so in this situation today, when the whole scandal with Russian agents on the Czech territory is resolved, it is honest that every MP here should stand up and say whether this government today has his trust or does not have his trust. I am always a supporter of honest policy, and this is honest, towards the voters, towards the citizens of the Czech Republic to say: it has or does not. And that will also be the result of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u114	Thank you. Mrs Zuzana Majerová. Yes, that's right, you've come to the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u115	[[He's talking without a drape.]] Thank you. Good afternoon, or rather early evening. I, through Mr President, would like to comment on the position of the Tricolore on the subject of today, so I would like to comment on Patrik Nacher and on the fact that he is positive. I'm also very positive and very humorous, but every time I come into this house, I get over it really fast, the humor and the positive mood too. So it's just that you're not the one who's positive. And one of those things is that we've been here since God's morning, and I'm really talking at 17.47. So that really proves something that we're dealing with topics here that - and if citizens are watching us, they have to say that this is really unbearable. Because they're thinking about what they're gonna pay rent from next month, and how it's gonna be with their kids, and we're doing this theater here. However, I will return to the subject of this meeting. trikolóra's view on this government is and has always been completely consistent. In our opinion, the koronavirový crisis was not managed by the government, alibistically hiding behind a group of unelected, completely one-sided pseudo-professionals, its measures were and are still confusing, illogical and outgunned. Their side effect is the collapse of the entire economy in our country, the astronomical debt and the lost generation of our children, the personnel summits at the Ministry of Health are just such a color and pure despair. Add to that the government's diplomatic amateurism that has been going on in the last month and a half, there is virtually no reason why we should support this government. Members of the Tricolore will therefore vote in favour of distrust of the government. But at the same time, it must be said that, contrary to the opposition parties to the Brussels Five, and in contrast to their actions, including the fact that the vote on distrust calls for the government just four months before the elections, we consider it highly hypocritical. Our reason is as I said, not as they say. Because it was these parties that wasted the opportunity to voice distrust to the government when it was most recent. Instead, the authorities from these parties have been collaborating with the government since February in the illegal setting up of the emergency situation, and members of the opposition parties, even when collaborating on the adoption of a totalitarian pandemic law, which only followed the emergency situation. [[17.50 hours]] Throughout this crisis, tricolore was the only authentic opposition defending and defending freedom, refusing to establish a lockdown, emergency conditions, and entire covid dictatorship, shutting down schools, companies and healthy people. Instead of being sick, instead of caring for those who needed help, we destroyed those who did not need any help and never asked for it. Therefore, this government does not have and did not have our trust, and we will not support it in voting that others have raised. Unlike the opposition, however, the decision of the President of the Republic, if mistrust were to be expressed, we are not afraid, because either the government will rule in demise, I think that nothing worse than what is now is possible, even though I have been wrong many times, or it will be so-called. an official government that, after all, has always been supported and more or less criticized among the citizens of this country. So this is the position of the Tricolor. We cannot speak to the government for confidence, but for very different reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u116	Madam, I would like to remind you that the obligation to wear a drape in enclosed spaces applies entirely to everyone. I'd like to ask you to put it on. If you don't do that, I'll give you a reprimand. A fine - not a fine, a reminder. And Mrs Hyťhová, too. Please. I will ask for the disinfection of the place because this is what we do with Mr Volný, we must be fair and we must do this for everyone. [[Members from the post shall report. I thought the tests were negative.]] I didn't make it up, I'm sorry. I didn't make it up, but unfortunately, this is how we set it up. So I'd like to disinfect the gym so we can continue to see if anyone can hear me in the lobby. [[It's a delay.]] If you don't, I'll put out a five-minute break. [[Objection.]] Unfortunately, I'm--I'm coming, ma'am, so it's okay. [[Disinfection of the speaker's desk.]] Thank you. Next in the debate will be Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u117	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on this point, I would like to speak out of distrust of the Government of Andrej Babiš, on the one hand, as a member of the coal commission, on the other hand, as a Member who has long been dealing with the issues of Czech energy. First of all, let me comment on the Government's response to the outcome of the coal commission's negotiations. At the end of last year, the coal commission presented the results of its annual work to the government, recommended that coal be shut down in 2038 if there is sufficient compensation for these coal resources in our energy sector. With this conclusion and the reasons that led to it, the government ministers had been familiar with this conclusion for six months. If the coal commission states in its reasoning that coal resources will be set aside if there is sufficient compensation for them, it clearly shows concern about whether the compensation will actually be available in 2038. That is why it is at least strange that the government has now ordered the coal commission to elaborate and evaluate in more detail the conditions, instruments and effects of the former end-use of coal in the Czech Republic. The question is why the government is so vague. The problem is that a group of ministers appeared in the government partly behind ČSSD, partly for YES, who propose a much earlier date for our departure from coal, namely 2033. So the government seems to be frightened by the aggressive behaviour of environmental activists who irresponsiblely enforce this term. If that is the case, it should just lay down a mandate. And if they're also hearing arguments about the fact that the price of emission allowances isn't worth using coal anymore, it's even worse. After all, emission allowances are nothing more than an artificial element created by the European Union precisely to make fossil fuels more expensive. So if we are not yet able to replace fossil resources safely, it means replacing them with stable resources, let the government defend Czech interests, and if there is nothing else, let the Czech Republic consider membership of the EU ETS, i.e. in the allowance system, or whether it seeks its fundamental revision. I'm just asking: where does this green enthusiasm come from in the Czech government? Have there been any new sources that could replace coal power plants? They didn't. The only thing that has started so far is the feverish preparation of projects for which both Czech and Brussels subsidies can be obtained. These are primarily intended to support the construction of renewable resources. But, as the statistics from Germany show, which already has higher power in renewable sources than in conventional ones, renewable resources are still not able to provide enough electricity and not to mention heat production. For example, in the period from 20 April to 21 May of this year, renewables covered German consumption only in one single day. In domestic conditions, according to the statistics of ČEPS, i.e. the Czech transmission system, it is necessary to install 400 per cent of wind output, i.e. four times more, and even 500 per cent in the case of photovoltaics, i.e. five times more. It is an equally serious problem, and that is another reason for my performance, I consider so-called. Green vision of Čez, introduced by ČEZ on 20 May. This is a very serious document that has not been discussed so far. First of all, ČEZ de facto broke up the state energy concept, and it was said to have happened without the knowledge of the Minister and experts at the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and, secondly, brought confusion and disruption to the idea of the future of our energy. CEZ material has the name Vision 2030: pure energy of tomorrow. In it ČEZ introduced his intentions for the next ten years. It plans to reduce CO2 emissions by 2030 in accordance with the Paris Agreement, to reduce the share of electricity production from coal by 36% by 2025 and by 68 % by 2030, and to build a new renewable energy capacity of 1,5 GW by 2025 and 6 GW by 2030. He plans to build a new nuclear block in Dukovany - but there is no term here - and the construction of small modular reactors with a total output of over 1 GW after 2040. It promises decarbonisation and decentralization of Czech heating, which means it is about to strike a major blow to the heating system, the mass supply to which 1.5 million households are connected. He wants to build gas capacity instead. In order not to be enough, Minister Brabec comes up with the fact that from the funds of the Modernization Fund, which the Minister Havlíček mentioned this morning, 14 GW photovoltaic sources will be built. That sounds nice, but expert calculations show that this photovoltaic shrink will not bring stability to our system, that there will still be gigawatts of electrical power missing after 2030. [[18.00 hours]] My colleagues brought pictures here, and I have a picture here too. [[He's pointing.]] Green is the core, black is already reduced coal, the yellow spikes, so that's in those sunny times of the day solar energy, and the white surfaces, that's just the unfulfilled power, what we're going to miss right now. So watch it. If we want to replace coal with renewable resources, with 45 percent of electricity production so far, we must consider that this will eliminate electricity self-sufficiency, unless, of course, those coal resources are replaced by stable electricity sources, of course, preferably nuclear sources. And there's one more important thing. In order for electricity to be available as we are used to, i.e. constantly, it is necessary to build battery storage. Because only then could the Republic draw electricity when it doesn't shine or blow. This year's May shows that a week or two days without sunshine may be necessary even this month. But battery storage represents the enormous costs that politicians essentially hide, and environmental activists ignore them. It would cost more than 255 billion to secure battery capacity to cover the entire Republic's hourly consumption. More than 6 trillion crowns would then cost to secure battery capacity and supply the Republic for one day. And in order to talk about some energy security, batteries would have to be able to absorb electricity for at least a week, maybe two weeks rather, but that would mean 40 or 80 trillion crowns. The appropriate calculation of the necessary costs is still missing in any calculations. Investing in the transition to renewable resources is thus coming from astronomical costs to the costs of an unimaginable one. And we must not forget the energy committee itself. If, in 2030, when coal power plants should be shut down, the same situation as this winter would occur, we would be the majority of some months without electricity. These are the facts that green politicians in their parties refuse to see. The resulting numbers won't change much either if we give up the ability to export electricity. Because now we sometimes export up to a quarter of the power, but sometimes, especially in winter, we export less than 10 percent of the electricity produced. So it's okay to have the power installed. We cannot count on any such reserves resulting from export bans in our future. So if we do not want to eliminate economic growth, we need to take a more prudent approach to replacing fossil resources. A politician who doesn't understand this should be excluded from deciding on energy in our republic. Prime Minister Babiš boasted in his speech this morning about fighting those Brussels green environmental activists. It's not true. The Prime Minister is only so strong at home, and when he comes to Brussels, his interest in protecting Czech national interests is falling to zero. At the last European Council, for example, he did not join the Polish Prime Minister Morawiecký and representatives of Hungary, Romania and Latvia in their efforts to challenge European climate objectives that may have a profound social impact. Morawiecki warned European leaders that, as a result of their climate plans, they would be richer and poorer. If the Prime Minister were here, I would have asked him where his determination to fight this green Brusel was then. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bauer is next in line for the debate. I do not know if Mr Antonín Staněk's apology was read from 17 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u119	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sum up the reasons which lead me to believe that today and here we should seek to distrust the government of Andrej Babiš. I just want to start by repeating what many of my previous speakers have said. This is the worst government since 1989. And if I had the wrong century and said, like, 1889, I feel like I'd be right, too. Babišův's government blew up state budgets, had the state apparatus swelled, and did not use the time of unprecedented economic growth to prepare for worse times. This government preferred the personal economic interests of its self-centered and chaotic prime minister over the interests of our country's people. You know, and I have personal experience with this, it's not so hard to rule in a time of calm and extraordinary economic growth. And that's what we've been through in the past few years. That's the way it goes when the sun is shining and the economy's working hard! But the true quality of government will only be reflected in the crisis. And we have warned you many times that it will not always be sunshine and that sooner or later some crisis will come to our country. The crisis has come. I admit that in the form of unexpected, Babišův's government failed. And I think it failed repeatedly. For me, the biggest disappointment is that Babišův's government has fundamentally shifted the line of what is considered normal in politics and public life. The train didn't go through it before, unfortunately today there is a speedster, basically every day there and backwards. And I think it's going to be very difficult to get that line back to normal. While premieres and ministers used to step aside for clumsy language, insults and insults are tolerated today. And I'm asking: Does it seem normal for the Prime Minister to comment on the Prime Minister's address in a form - and now I quote - "the Prime Minister made a mess and is an asshole"? Doesn't seem normal to me. And I ask the ministers present: does that seem normal to you in our country? Earlier, a minor case or suspicion was enough, and government politicians preferred to clear the fields so as not to harm the government as a whole. And today? Today, the fatal conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, subsidy fraud, and serious suspicions of corruption are changing. I couldn't imagine in 2013 that our country would be led by a man without a censure. Really, that's what I thought. A man who is suspected of working with the State Security. Today, today, it's seen as collateral damage on the Prime Minister's résumé. I had never imagined before that the ministers responsible for the security of our country would be laughing at being ridiculous. Today, the Minister of the Interior is the target of jokes, although he is dealing with one of the most serious security incidents in the Czech Republic's political development. And I have never really experienced such a crazy personnel policy, which the government unfortunately demonstrated even when people were dying in the Czech Republic. Instead of a stable management of the key health resort, ministers, advisors, hygienists took turns as ice hockey players. It was unimaginable for me that the government would spend millions on projects which it subsequently quietly and without a word of apology canceled. Let me give you a specific example, I'm talking about a covideo hospital in Letňany, which in the end has not been passed by a single patient. As far as the past is concerned, even in previous governments, and this must be acknowledged, there have been constitutional complaints about approved laws or government measures. It's nothing new under the sun, we all have our experience with it. But it never happened that the government, like on a running belt, would take the illegal and unconstitutional measures that we are now witnessing, even though it knew in advance that the courts would throw it off her desk again. This unfortunately only happens under the current rule of Andrej Babiš. [[18.10 hours]] But what bothers me most is that during the reign of Andrej Babiš, lies began to lie. I admit that a measure of deception and embellishment always belonged in politics, but Andrej Babiš promoted a lie to a standard. The lie became a common part of the political struggle and became overlooked as something normal. People have become accustomed to the Prime Minister clowning on social media every day and changing his views like socks. As the wind of political preferences blows, the Prime Minister's cloak is flying. But unfortunately, this is more serious than just our Prime Minister's folk statements. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, Babišův's government came up with an ambitious programme statement. I think you've all read it. And I don't remember a government whose real governance would pass so much with a government program. And I will give examples, for example, in the social field. The government has promised to implement pension reform and give hope to today's 30s and 40s, because, above all, the problems will come for them in the future. It was this government's priority of all priorities. However, it will not leave a single or single major adjustment to the pension system. Nevertheless, the Minister of this Government has the nerve to give talks about pension reform for pension reform. At the same time, the laws have not yet been passed by the government. This is the reality of our country. All this government has done is buy senior voters at the right time with one-time contributions to legal pensions. But I don't think the real problems of our seniors have been addressed very well. You may well all know that there are still jobs missing in the regions in the elderly' homes, in residential facilities, specialized care is lacking, for example for people with Alzheimerův's disease, and it is unclear how social services will be funded in the future, such as those on the ground that seniors normally use. It was the reform of social services that the government promised. Alleged reform was to ensure that social services could continue to develop and that people worked well in them. That's what it says in the programming statement. The financing of social services should have been balanced, multi-sourced, reliable and predictable. What's the reality? But the law in question never even entered the legislative process. The government has also promised to support families. In fact, however, in addition to a few cosmetic changes, life has complicated and further complicates families. At the moment, if you ask me how, perhaps the meaningless destruction of children's groups. And I suppose we'll discuss this tomorrow at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. A separate chapter is the promised reform of the batch system. Unfortunately, neither did she. And for example, there was nothing left of the once famous list of 15 points to deal with the situation in excluded localities. You didn't do anything with excluded locations. I'm glad I can be positive for one moment, I think it's appropriate for me to look back. Over the last few years, I would like to appreciate very good and fair cooperation with government Members on the floor of the Committee on Social Policy. This committee has developed a really specific amendment of laws to remedy the often desperate inaction and incompetence of this government, or the relevant Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm going back to the beginning. The opposition's attempt to voice distrust to the government is a normal, common thing. It would be abnormal for us to sit with our hands in our laps and wait. Whether or not Babišův's government holds the election with or without confidence, I hope he will have a weaker mandate thanks to today's vote. I will therefore vote in favour of this government's distrust. The less this government will do in the remaining period, the better it will be for our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. And next, Mr. Mr. Žáček will appear, Mr. Bojko will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u121	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't think I'm calling the Prime Minister by his real name, you're right. For greater emphasis on my arguments, I chose a somewhat more intimate label, which he used with his closest before November 1989. It has been two and a half years since we first voted on the distrust of Prime Minister Bureš' government. On 23 November 2018, I remind you that the immediate cause of the vote was the strange procedure of the police to investigate the case of the Chapi hnízdo and other events related to it, such as his son's journey to Crimea, recently being mediated again. In June 2019 we once again voted on distrust of the government. The problem of Prime Minister Bureš with a colossal conflict of interest has become ever deeper and it has not been possible to pretend that he does not exist to ignore him. And even today, it's impossible not to mention him. But it is by far not the only problem that undermines the government's confidence, plus when problems are layered and one falls over the other. There won't be a month before the government faces a case. Doubts accompany the entire period of Bureš and his reign. Doubts are often accompanied by the activity or inaction of various authorities of the state administration, unfortunately also the Police of the Czech Republic and prosecutors. At the time of the pandemic, we could watch virtually live, how inexpensive public finances are being handled, how overpriced medical aids are purchased, or how the government ignored the warning of an honored fellow professor of Svoboda and the storerooms of state material reserves with zero. On the contrary, today we see how these warehouses are packed products and products from companies that have been inserted into the trust fund and whose end benefit is none other than the Prime Minister himself. But, of course, there's more. There has been and there has been a violation of laws, under the pretext of combating COVID-19, fundamental rights and freedoms are being dishonored and ignored. The erosion of democratic principles and freedoms has reached many unimaginable dimensions during the time of this government. Some have a legitimate feeling that we are not only mentally, but really returning to a time of non-freedom. Not only does the government produce bad laws, but it is knowingly and shamelessly violated. During the pandemic, we have seen this countless times when the courts decide on the lawlessness of legislation, and ministers continue to issue illegal emergency measures. This is an unacceptable breakdown of a state that, instead of being there for citizens, stands against them. After all, not only the general public, but also the members of the government and the coalition MEPs do not often know what they actually approve and what they actually pay. [[Alread]] The legitimacy of the Communists themselves and their invitation to power are totally unacceptable to me. But, of course, it has some logic because of Burešův's communist agency history. What he missed in the political area in the late 1980s due to his deployment to North Africa is catching up with the vulgar standardisation practice of exercise of power today. A trail of communists can be seen in a number of steps, starting with, for example, an effort to discuss the return of supplies to the Bošehr nuclear power plant, through the reduction of money intended for the modernization of our army, and thus undermining our NATO alliance, openness to the People's Republic of China, to the long-term efforts of the government, especially Minister Havlíček, against the interests of national security of the Czech Republic and the position of the entire Czech security community to invite Rosatom into the Dukovany tender. Not to mention the presentation and defending of the interest of the Russian Federation after revealing the background of the explosions in Vrbetice. Still, I'm looking for, I'm looking into a memory of what the government could be praised for. But in vain. Hardly for bowing to the Chinese Communist regime and expensively redeemed masks. Perhaps for the initial response to Vrbětice, when the act of state terrorism of the Russian Federation was publicly revealed on our territory? Maybe, but if it wasn't for all that mushy. After all, the announcement of the duo Bureš - Hamáček began with the words that we regret the disruption of relations with Russia. This statement is very far from the self-confident position of the supreme representatives of the sovereign state of the European Union and of the NATO member countries, as well as the depreciating of the entire case and the disregard of the victim of two of our citizens by the formulation of an attack on goods. As a number of you, I had the opportunity to get acquainted with the evidence and the results of our investigation into our security forces and intelligence services. We all agree that they have done an unimaginablely vast amount of precise and professional work and, through the demonstration of the involvement of members of the armed forces of the Russian Federation from among the special forces of the GRU in the explosions in Vrbetice, they have de facto forced Burešův's pro-Russian and pro-Chenian Eastern policy to turn quite fundamentally by 180 degrees, regardless of President Miloš Zeman's position. However, I am still fascinated by the festival of dilettanteism and inability to ask effectively foreign partners in the European Union and NATO for coordinated action against the Russian Federation. Not to mention the international consequences of the upcoming trip of Vice Prime Minister Hamáček to Moscow and fairy tales of camouflage. [[18.20 hours]] The understanding of the Czech Government's policy and, to a large extent, its credibility are in ruins. No wonder our diplomacy's efforts ended in a fiasco. It's a good thing we have responsible and functioning security forces behind the termination of Russian residents. When I came before you in the past when discussing distrust with the government, I first evaluated the area of security and fulfilling the government's programming statement. The ratings were overwhelming, the results were undoubtedly trivial. However, there is no point in discussing them in detail here, as I did last time. On the one hand, because almost nothing has changed and remained with empty declarations, because dysfunctional or imperfect laws have often been proposed that have not contributed to better or greater security, and I cannot shake the feeling that it has lost meaning, when the arguments and facts for the Burešův government coalition are no longer there and have no relevance. We could have seen it yesterday, for example, when the Ministry and the Minister said something was unacceptable, and the government's MPs are raising their hands equally for nonsense. Cui bono? I have to make a note. I would also like to mention, at least, that there has been no fulfillment of the promise to strengthen the coordination of the security policy of the State. For example, it is still unclear who manages this agenda at the Office of the Government. And the Prime Minister Bureš and the government are clearly comfortable with this chaos. We can keep going. After a long meeting, an independent intelligence control authority was established, but it still exists only on paper. Only thanks to the helpfulness of us, the opposition, seems to be approaching the initial attempt to present the first candidates. We'll see. Without the fundamental contribution of the opposition, it would not even be possible to enforce an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which is necessary for adequate cyber defense against the growing attacks of hackers, especially from the state or non-state actors of the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China or North Korea, who do not stand to attack our critical infrastructure, such as hospitals and during the pandemic. Although a number of times, with the support of the opposition, there has been an increase in funds and tariff increases and the introduction of a stabilization surcharge for security forces, it is illusionary to think that they have improved and improved their functioning. Yes, security isn't free, but more money doesn't mean more security. After many years of Burešův's government with Social Democrats, the security forces are not in good shape. And there is no way to talk about their stabilization, let alone development. On the contrary, we have seen their abuse and their stupid waste of guarding and checking at the county borders during the pandemic. The impact of long-term Burešův' pressure on police authorities investigating his own cases, such as the Capi Nest, constant personnel changes in security forces, how it will affect their independence, the objectivity of further security work, we do not know yet. Won't we need some kind of illustration law to get rid of those corrupt opportunists who serve not our state, but Burešův's personal ambitions? I could stand before you and present dozens of other cases for which the government should not have used the trust of the Lower House of Parliament long ago, or it should be mistrusted. No one doubts, not even Bureš himself, that his government, after all these affairs and its management as a branch of Agrofert, would have kept nothing but remains to govern the so much needed public confidence. The destruction of parliamentary democracy, the breakdown of state institutions, the relativization of any values, the attempt to liquidate the political system of democratic capitalism, unacceptable oligarchization, nepotism and corruption, all with the government's support of the KSČM, and last but not least a compromised fraud and a liar at the head of the state, all of this must end, all of this must go away. And he'll be coming soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bojko will now be speaking in the debate, Mr Bendl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u123	Hello, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's speech, so I felt a little bit like I heard a story about a different world than we live in. The way he was sneaking around with the tax, the reduced taxes on beer. Well, as far as I can remember, we had three taxes. That the restaurants themselves didn't know how to charge it, and they were fined for it. How he fought in his boobs, how he wanted to stop the pirátostán that would have been here if the pirát ruled and accepted Muslim immigrants. There I would just remind him of his great warriors for Brussels, Mrs Jourová and Mrs Charanzová. Mrs. Jourová wants to destroy anyone who has a slightly different opinion than the right mainstream. Today, every message you write or share, some article from some really well-founded doctor, even if he's a Nobelův Prize winner, you'll get an immediate Facebook threat or their social networks saying there's some untruths that somebody found out. And there's just no other truth. So in this, I would slow the Prime Minister down a little bit, as he fights, and all his MPs, against immigration, and in Brussels, these two Members see it quite differently. As far as the Vrbětice case is concerned, it was beautifully called by the dog's willows. Yes, that's exactly what it was. Because no one even knew how many guns were stored there. It was so sloppy guarded that, as I heard, it could happen at any time. Apparently, thousands of weapons have been lost. Eventually, they appeared in the Islamic State. So clearly someone needed to get rid of some charges for me, so they just had it blown up. We blamed it on Russia. I don't know, maybe the Rus were there or weren't. Anyway, what really struck me was the Prime Minister begging for the support of Western countries, and somehow he didn't get it. Spoken like an ambassador that you have his support. But no one, no one in those Western countries, has expelled a single diplomat. 'Cause they figured they'd just lose it. That they're doing their business when we're imposing an embargo on Russia, and they're immediately taking over the markets and trading happily on. So where is the support for those Western countries, as the right side of the spectrum always says here: we belong to the West, we belong to the West. I don't want to belong anywhere, I want to belong here, in this free Czech Republic. Not to the West, not to the East. So I don't want to belong to the West, which is half Muslim already. Here we keep hearing how good we are and adding, adding, adding, raising salaries. Well, they picked up the salaries mostly for the civil servants, and they're raising pensions. That's all beautiful. But no one will ever tell those pensioners that, for example, when the pensions went up by 900, 720 crowns were a mandatorial expense that Donald or Mája Bee would have to give if they were in power. Plus, there was some 180, 200 crowns. So I don't really know any of the civil servants in my area who would say he's gonna vote for Babiš, he's probably ashamed. But I know seniors who will vote for him. So there are beautifully bought votes before the election. Here in this country, this government has nearly wiped out the middle class. I have friends who owned small pensions, pubs. They don't have anything today. Because they had an eseroga, they were self-employed, they had employees to make a deal, and by the time they got some help, they just lived off the savings. They haven't even opened up in that third wave, and several have already sold it, and I think most will end up in execution. So, yes, they got compensation for the huge ones who had hotels, had 40 employees, and that support did almost a million a month for them. So they said, we won't even open it because we don't need it. We've got electricity, rent, power, and we'll open it when the wellness is open and all. Because opening movies without spectators, theater without spectators... They opened the slopes for us, that was amazing. Our people were there on the grass for a swimsuit ride. So I expect you to open the outdoor pools in November. [[18.30 hours]] What was completely unacceptable to me, absolutely unacceptable. I hate supermarkets. I hate supermarkets, I'm used to going to a small store, to a butcher, to vegetables, to a bakery, to talk to the owner, to the vendors. Usually in the morning, it kicks a man incredibly hard, because those employees or owners from those small stores are always friendly, smiling. It's charging me a lot. That's why I was brutally struck when I learned from Minister Metnar on a TV show here on ČT24 that the biggest spread of the covid in those small stores was that. They don't spread in supermarkets. You've shut down all the small businesses. The supermarket wasn't the only one closed. Probably because the only Czech supermarket is Hruška, other than everything belongs to multinational foreign companies, to whom you have passed into your pockets like this. They wiped out small businessmen and left supermarkets open. That's where people used to push each other at the bakery, at the sausages, and I don't know where everywhere. But that's not where the covid spread. I wonder where it spread. Those orders were just meaningless, illegal and stupid. In fifteen cases, the government's nonsensical orders were swept away by either the municipal, Constitutional or Supreme Administrative Court. But what's going on? Nothing. So in Mr Arenberger's words: we know about this, but before it comes into force, we'll think of something else. So this is a violation of the Constitution, of the law. And it's totally fine. Now the last case was that schools and kindergartens were illegally closed. I've said it before, I've looked up to that Western democracy where ministers and politicians just leave after the slightest trouble, even if they take a picture of him with some mistress or have any indication of corruption, and go. But we had the Minister here for a few weeks, which... I can't even imagine it when I learned the last thing about his real estate being even 160, how someone's just able to conceive in his life. And then when you find out that he's actually in huge contact with the pharmaceutical lobby... I stopped making illusions about health care. The last time I said 200 people were convicted, there were 150 doctors. The Prime Minister was very upset about why I'm confusing corruption here. Well, because that's why we still have covid time here. Because in 2009, when the swine flu was on the loose, you wanted to vaccinate the entire nation, famous doctors. But those doctors weren't corrupt at the time. Back then, most of the medical staff rejected it, and the swine flu was over. Unfortunately, over the past ten years, most doctors have managed to corrupt the pharmaceutical lobby. I'm bohužel so. So in Mr. Arenberger's case, I just don't understand how someone gets that kind of property. More like I get it. But to forget to mention it in your property confession? He said it was just some mistake. Then we're talking about having a little box. A field of 240 hectares, it didn't even have the biggest bullet in Moravia. Now I've learned, I don't know if that's true, you might confirm that supposedly all district doctors are to receive a one-time allowance of CZK 75,000. Maybe the Minister will confirm it. It came in my e-mail. I'd rather say that these people who were on the front lines of the covid's department should get this, because our famous obsessors treated you so much that they didn't even want to see you there when you had the temperature. And the last time Mr. Svoboda laughed at me, he was falling behind my stomach. I know that from the experience of my friends that he called, he's got a fever, don't come in here, take your honey tea, your pills, and if it gets any worse and you can't breathe anymore, just call me quick. And this is what happened in some patients. They either healed without any symptoms, like they just had a mild flu, or they ended up on the arse. The Prime Minister was talking about Bamlanivimab, Regeneron, Isoprinosin, Ivermectin. I say clearly that we Members of the Free Block came up with Isoprinosin and Ivermectin. We got Professor Beran to the House. And those people started reacting to it, and Isoprinosin started buying. And we're getting feedback. We meet thousands of people, and some thank us for saving their lives because they got Isoprinosin, which wasn't available here, and even though a lot of doctors treated him, it's more like a little bit of work. And Ivermectin's the same. The Prime Minister recently said he was taking Isoprinosin for a month. I'm quite interested in why he took it when he's supposedly vaccinated. We spent a lot of tens of billions on tests, on respirators, on overpriced purchases. That has been said here several times today. But what? Everyone bought expensive. If everyone could manage it, we'd probably go bankrupt. And the last report, I think, is two weeks since I've registered it in the media, that actually clinics are based on post-covid treatment even for those who have had an easy course. So we're not gonna have room and funding to heal, investigate, operate again. I have two friends who have been waiting for over a year, one for the hip, the other for the knee. Who's been through this... I've been through this twice, I've got these hips changed, both of them, what pain it is, if you let it go to the fourth grade, you're really on opiates, and in a minute, those guys are gonna be addicts. But unfortunately, they probably won't be able to see it that soon. So we're starting clinics where we're going to treat people who've had an easy run. So I think it's kind of a superb show. I'm not saying someone didn't have the complications. I did. People died. But based on the hysteria that always happened, it seems to me that by 2019 we were immortal, probably not dying, not dying from neck fractures, pneumonia, that was a common diagnosis. My friend's grandmother died this way, too, getting pneumonia in the hospital. When I was in surgery, I was 70 percent sick at the hospital because you just get sick. You don't have movement, you lie down with sick patients and so on. So the situation was like this. But this has really stopped me from saying that we don't have any funds, insurance companies don't want to cover some things anymore, and we're gonna be paying tens of billions for some post-covide clinics. I'll say one thing about it. I never supported the government here. But at present, we Members of the Free Block - me and Lubomír Volný - will not support the drop. We want the Prime Minister and his people and the Social Democrats to eat it to the end. Because I'd hate for him to emerge so easily. And there could be an official government here who could do whatever she wanted, and Mr. Babiš is going to be driving around the Republic doing a peacock and a campaign campaign. We will express our position by leaving the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u124	I would like to ask Mr Bendl, who is enrolled in the debate. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, it's a point of fact. [[Mrs Černochová requests the disinfection of the speaker's counter.]] Can I have some disinfectant, please? [[Dissipation in progress.]] I have received information that the Member has not yet been warned by order measures since this morning, so I am doing so additionally. Ambassador Bojka, I'm giving you a warning. The rest of us wear respirators. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just very briefly. Sadly, after four years in this Chamber of Deputies, a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic does not distinguish between a European Commissioner and a European Member, plus a Member who likes and so often criticizes the European Union as an international institution. Perhaps it would be nice, through the President of the House of Vondráček, if you, Mr Bojka, had learned a little and found out what position Commissioner Věra Jourová has in the European Union and what position Mrs Dita Charanzová is in the European Union, so that you do not think that they are both Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u126	So Mr Bendl and Mr Adamec will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I have considered whether to speak at all today, because people who hold preferential rights today have quite widely characterised the reasons leading us to convene today's House meeting, but the Prime Minister has called for me. It reminded me a little of his conversion to me by a communication system that David Rath often used, that the best defense is an attack - before I explain, I'd rather blame everyone immediately for what they did or did not do - to shoot their troubles and attack and possibly criminalize anyone who wiped it out in any way. To the stork's nest. Tricked, Prime Minister, you're making a culprit. It's a system: we cheated, but the culprit is Bendl because he didn't figure anything out. It should be said and recalled that the set-up of the control system was not able to reveal the real owner in the past among the thousands of applicants, and despite a number of checks made by the Regional Authority during the time of Petr Bendl's administration and during the time of David Rath's administration, the European Commission, too, has failed to reveal the fact that the applicant's honest statement that he is not a small or medium-sized company does not correspond to the facts. It didn't show up until time. And I just hope - I really haven't said much about this lately, because this whole thing is being held by law enforcement authorities. I understand that maybe the Prime Minister's policy is just that, we're always pointing something at someone - I really enjoyed it with David Rath in the past: you point to someone, it's already sticking to him, there's always something there. And I just firmly believe that the Police of the Czech Republic will not succumb to any politics and that it will be a system that falls to whom, whether it has become a fraud or not, the one who may have done it would have to pay accordingly in accordance with the law. But I have to remind you that really 50 million on the stork's nest are tiny. Mr Volný here says how unfairly one of his fellow Members is attacking Mr Babiš and Agrofert, because 99,9999 % are claim subsidies. So I'll read you a list of non-interest subsidies and investment incentives that the Ministry of Agriculture doesn't manage - I could add that if anyone feels that there is little, but I will only read you a positive decision on these subsidies from the Ministry of Industry and Trade programme. I will start with the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. For the tapestry, I draw from the interpellation that I have submitted to Minister Havlíček, who is publicly available on the website of the Chamber of Deputies: Energy saving III. Challenge of Fatra, a. s., 690 thousand. Energy savings II. Call for Cerea, a. s., 2 028 thousand. Energy savings II. Challenge 2 561,000. Energy savingsII. Call for Cerea, a. s., $2,939,000. Energy savings II. Cerea, a. s., 2 797,000. Energy savings II. Call Cerea, a.s., 2,556,000. Energy savings II. Ethanol Energy, a. s., 72 039 thousand. Energy savings II. Challenge Primagra, a. s., 930,000. Energy savings II. Call Research Institute of Organic Synthesizers, a. s., 2 096 thousand. Potential I. challenge Research institute of organic synthesis 10 million. Innovation - Innovation project I. call Bakery Green meadow 100 million. Application I. Call with effective cooperation Research institute of organic synthesis 28 750 thousand crowns. Application I. Call with effective cooperation Research institute of organic synthesis 20 034 thousand. Innovation - Innovation project I. call FARMTEC, a. s., 3 990,000. Innovation - Innovation project I. call Research Institute of Organic Synthesizer 16 184,000. Energy savings I. Challenge Church sausages 5 716 thousand. Energy savings I. Challenge Church sausages, a. s., 1 316 thousand. Energy savings I. Fatra, a. s., 4 778 thousand. Energy savings I. call Agricultural supply and purchase Strakonice, a. s., 1 948 thousand. Energy savings I. challenge Primagra, a. s., 3 758 thousand. Energy savings I. challenge PENAM, a. s., 2 241,000. Energy savings I. challenge PENAM, a. s., 2 679 thousand. This is one of the three parts managed by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, non-profit aid. Data in force on 10 May 2021 - I quote from the document: below we provide an overview of the projects to companies from Agrofert Group, providing dedicated support from the TRIO programme for the period 2014 to 2021. The R&D support programme, called TRIO, was approved by the Government Resolution of 25 May 2015 No. 379. By order of the Government of 30. 4. 2018 No. The modified version of the TRIO programme has been approved. The TRIO programme is scheduled for 2016 to 2022. TRIO is a programme to support industrial research and experimental development focusing on the development of the potential of the Czech Republic in the field of key technologies. Recipient - again we are talking about the companies of Agrofert Group: Research Institute of Organic Synthesizers subsidy 8 988 thousand. SYNPO, a. s., Centre of Organic Chemistry, next participant, 4 555,000. Research institute of organic synthesis 3,750,000. ARDEPHARMA, a. s., 4 829 thousand. Research institute of organic synthesis 5,841,000. Research institute of organic synthesis 7,600,000. Synthesia, a. s., 9,474,000. Techniston, a. s., 1 981 thousand. doktor Staněk, společnost. s omezený ., a Research Institute of Organic Synthesizers 2 464 thousand. Research institute of organic synthesis, a. s., 6,958 thousand. The MIT also provides institutional support for the long-term conceptual development of the Research Organisation of the Centre of Organic Chemistry, s. r. o., for the period 2018 to 2022, which also belongs to the Agrofert Group. Center of Organic Chemistry, s. r. o., support for 2018 was 6,663 thousand. [[18.50 hours]] And now, at least, don't hold me up too much, because I could, of course, keep reading the list. But at least some investment incentives in the form of tax relief. This means we do not provide cash as the Czech Republic, but we call those companies if you have profit, you can deduct it from taxes. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. CS CABO, spol. s r.o. - Agrofert owns 48 percent - expansion of soot production for production of tyres and technical rubber 579,45 mil. Crowns. Fatra, a. s. - 100% owned by Agrofert - ceiling of public support 342,75 mil. Crowns. Lovochemie, a. s. - Agrofert, a s., 100 per cent - 591 mil. Crowns. Green meadow bakery - expansion of bakery products production - 81.6 mil. Crowns. PENAM, a. s. - Agrofert 100% owns - expansion of bakery products production - 155.5 mil. Crowns. Precheza, a. s. - extension of titanium white production - 289,4 mil. Crowns. PREOL, a. s. - extension of the production of extruded rape waste - 46,95 mil. Crowns. Now hold on: total tax discount of 2.48 billion. Crowns. Just imagine what the opposition would be doing here in the past, and I turn to those who have been here more than one parliamentary term if, for example, Prime Minister Topolánek or Prime Minister Petr Nečas, some of his companies, drew tax relief not 2.48 billion, but perhaps 5 million or million. He once beat Stanislav Gross, if you remember, because that's what culture was like. She's getting worse all the time. The question is, because the Prime Minister says he doesn't run these companies anymore, so if he's actually leaving today, the managers are so capable that suddenly there's such a difference in the moment he joined government positions, whether he's got it or not. I think it's a matter of the Prime Minister's conscience. I'm just saying he's in a conflict of interest, and he's in a huge conflict of interest. And he just can't get out of it because he didn't get rid of the management of the companies. If, and this is likely to happen, he will confirm that the final beneficiary of Agrofert Group's companies is the Prime Minister, then I think that it is simply to resign from the prime minister's office and it is to the government's downfall, because what the whole business sector in the situation in which the Czech Republic finds itself financially should say then. The Prime Minister says we're not returning anything. We are in a situation where many of these projects, which are criticised, have not yet been reimbursed by the European Union, but have been reimbursed by the Czech Republic. And I asked Minister Havlíček from where. Financial resources must be identified in the State budget, a kind of flow-rate, which must therefore be applied back and financed. I want to ask if the Czech Republic will pay to avoid the pressure of the European Union or who will actually pay for it. I know the situation is difficult, but I'm going back to the conflict of interest again. It's just not possible to do it this way. And apparently the Prime Minister didn't get rid of the conflict of interest, and he doesn't want to get rid of it. And I'm going to read one more thing here, which is actually from the government's wound, but not so much in the Prime Minister's wound, even though he said here several times that he's running things himself, that he's overseeing everything. And we all know that one of the huge problems was the lack of vaccines at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. So I'm going to answer the interview numbers that the Prime Minister answered, to be clear, because how many times do we say, well, we didn't use the offers the European Union gave us to order enough benefits because people were waiting for it, and maybe it didn't have to die so many people if there were enough, maybe we could have protected a lot more people because it was a game of time. And here we were presented that there are no vaccines and that the European Union is actually deceiving us, so I have to publish what the Prime Minister wrote to me. I quote this: below I provide an overview of the agreements agreed so far at European Union level, submitted orders by the Czech Republic, including preliminary bookings. The quantity offered is always stated, I note, and I stress the order level and its justification. AstraZeneca - maximum possible share, read 6 950,000 doses. The Czech Republic ordered 3 million doses. Order decision 4. 9. 2020. Explanation: The then Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch based on discussion with the then President of the Czech Society for Vaccines and Special Envoy of the Government, Professor Roman Prymula, followed the strategy at the time. Johnson & Johnson - the maximum possible proportion, that is, how many were offered, 4 790 186 doses exactly. The Czech Republic ordered 2 million doses. This is a vaccination for 2 million people. The decision on ordering on 14 October 2020 based on the decision of the then Minister of Health Roman Prymula, followed according to the then strategy of the resort diversification portfolio, provision of vaccines in volume for about 60 percent of the adult population and when the pandemic was in retreat. Pfizer/BioNTech - maximum possible rate of 4.625 million doses. The Czech Republic ordered 4 million doses. Order decision 27. 10. 2020. The Prime Minister adds: The former Minister of Health Roman Prymula decided to order 2 million benefits. However, this decision was negative after the exchange of the Minister of Health and Minister Jan Blatný decided to increase the order to 4 million The increase to a higher volume was no longer possible due to the relatively late notification of the requirement that unwanted vaccines were redistributed under the so-called bazaar. I quote, I didn't make that up, and I'm not even saying anything I've heard or heard from someone here, that's a letter and the Prime Minister's reply. And I could go on, I don't want to delay. In short, almost everywhere we ordered less than we could. And it's just a matter of every conscience because the vaccines weren't. And I think it was a great responsibility for the government to arrange for order and for the vaccines to be here at the time they were supposed to be. And they obviously could have been. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u128	Mr Adamec will now speak in the debate, Mr Holomčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u129	Mr President, fellow Members, Mr Minister - I see that my cast has changed behind me here - let me also say a few words about today's agenda of the meeting to express distrust for the government. I must say, I am an opposition MP, and I simply expressed my first distrust to the government, for the second time, and for the third time. Today, I heard in the media that the opposition is doing sabotage. Well, it's a strong statement from the Prime Minister, and I have to say, he's wrong. It's a standard situation in parliament, it's a standard situation in the municipal or regional council, when things change in those institutions. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has said that it will no longer support the government of Andrej Babiš. The fact that they left today and went on a trip shows that they didn't mean it so seriously, that although the contract was terminated, the support remained more or less. I have to say, I am so sorry that I resent the fact that there is talk here in Parliament and that we are actually discussing here. I understand that it may seem to the Prime Minister or some of you that it is long that we are stalling here, but I want to say that the opposition also wants our citizens to live well in our state, and we also want the development of the Czech Republic. Of course, these conditions are different, we respect the outcome of the elections, and I say again, things have changed. That's why it's perfectly normal that we've provoked a mistrust hearing with the government today. So there's no sabotage, please. It is simply a normal standard procedure of the opposition, both in Parliament and in other bodies, such as the Regional Council or municipal or municipal council. There's been a lot of praise here today, a lot of criticism. It's okay. The government presents its results, praises itself, criticizes the opposition. This has been the case lately, over the last few years, of the enormity that anyone in the world, which party did at the beginning of this century, and even at the end of the last century. It seems very unfair to me, because many of us weren't here at the time, the situation is completely different, and I think that we should just act normal, not blame ourselves, and that we should feel that we are not enemies, coalitions versus opposition, that we are political opponents. And that's different. I mean, how many times are we talking outside the House, discussing the problems we have here, and I have to say, it turns out that 50 percent of the bills that are being passed by the House here, we all actually approve. In regional or municipal councils, this is even a larger percentage. And it's clear that we just have different opinions on a number of things, and I'm sorry that it's become such a rule lately that when it lasts longer, it sounds from the coalition, that we're building. Well, if the coalition's discussing something, it's discussing it. If we're going to discuss something, we're going to reconstruct it. I don't think that's true, and that there's just talk in parliament and there's a need to accept it. Because I have seen parliaments on my foreign trips, where they haven't spoken, but those countries haven't been democratic. And when we spoke, one speaker and everyone applauded - something reminds me of here sometimes - but no one criticized, no one dared to say the word against. Even when you walked into the House of Parliament, your cell phone turned off by itself. And now let's look at some of the problems that I wanted to mention here. We talked about traffic today. I have already argued here that it is of no importance to assess who built the motorways or railways at what time, that since the preparation is very long and lasts for six years, it is better to discuss how these things are prepared, how much legislation is in and what needs to be improved so that transport in the Czech Republic moves significantly towards European standards. I have to say, it's a bit of a problem. The Ministry of Transport had a bit of bad luck to fill those ministries, or ministers, when there was a period when ministers took turns very often. And if you look at the situation that was here in our term of office, you'll find that there's actually been an exchange of ministers. And the last minister, Minister Kremlík, left very infamously about electronic faults, or highway signs, where they absolutely failed to tender for this news, and Prime Minister Babiš apparently, due to some personal emergency, simply commissioned the Minister of Industry and Trade to be a Minister of Transport at the same time. And I think it's a bit of a problem. And it is not the problem of the Minister of Industry, Trade and Transport at the present time, but it is the problem of the Prime Minister. Because I'll tell you something. The transport is so important and so complex and the Ministry of Industry and Trade is even more complex, and in the time of covidová and postcovidová, where where there are a lot of programs for entrepreneurs, there is a lot of work and it is not possible one day to plan motorways and the next day to prepare the construction of Dukovan. I really think that it is not possible and that it should be divided as we were just used to having the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Trade and Industry. As for things that I don't think are fulfilled and won't, it's a shift in the Prague Circuit that the state should invest. We all go to Prague and we know what the problem is to just get to Prague. We will all arrive at the border of the capital and then we are just wondering how long it takes us to get here to the center of Prague. Furthermore, it is a problem that is still being solved ad hoc, and that is the financing of the roads of the second and third classes. I think that this has to go into a completely different system regime, where these funds are just going to be in the budgetary determination of taxes, or some other system, but I prefer the budgetary determination of taxes, so that the regions count on it every year within the normal allocation of money from the budgetary determination of taxes. Then let me criticize the legislation here. We've made Law 416 here with the MP's initiative. I don't think that's entirely happy. I think these are important things. We've already amended it, but it's not enough. We're missing the Linen Construction Act. He's just not, and he's not. Construction law, I'll get back to it in a minute, that's a big problem too. Then I see a problem in organising construction and investment in line construction, and these are organisations called Road and Motorway Directorates. They're inefficient, they're slow, they're very bureaucratic, because they're afraid, and they can't really take any chances or take any initiative to get the construction going, to get the construction going. So everything isn't as pink as it looks at first sight. But I understand that the problems are there, but what was planned to be done is halfway there, and I think that maybe it's also because there isn't enough time, because the Minister is just a Minister of Industry and Trade. And I don't want to criticize him here because it's not his problem, he's been tasked with the Prime Minister. It is the problem of the Prime Minister and the problem of the Czech Government. And now let me share with you one more recent experience that has really surprised me. Perhaps you would think that as an opposition representative, I could be happy about it. I'll tell you I don't. And I'll tell you what's going on. We have approved, as has been said, one of the most important laws of the Czech Republic for this period, a new building law. Not to mention the way the legislative process that initiated it was being prepared, whose impulses were the pressures to become a state office, all of this will pass away. But it hasn't been that long since we voted on this bill at third reading, and what was my surprise when the MP club, the biggest MP club, which has a secretary for local development, just stopped listening to it. He just voted against her in a number of cases. And I'm saying this isn't good. Because who's the guarantor of that government statement and government program? Well, government and individual ministers. And when the Members just say that they don't, like I say, I'm not happy about it, because then there's something that wasn't supposed to happen at all, and the consequences can be quite unpleasant for all of us, because, as I say, the devil is always hidden in detail. And those amendments are not as innocent as they would have been at first sight. The same thing happened yesterday at the third reading, in the law on addictive substances, when the situation repeated again, this time with another minister. I'm really not happy about this! I'm not criticizing it. As an opposition MP, I could be very happy as you can't do it. But I really don't, because it's dangerous stuff. I can still understand if you don't agree with the coalition. But in order not to support part of its own minister's coalition in this way, it seems very dangerous to me. And something about the state of the ruling majority in this Parliament. [[19.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to keep you here. We've all had enough. It's a lovely summer night. However, it is not that simple a matter of distrust of the government. I must say that this government, given the problems that have been raised here, I will not repeat them. I'm not going to repeat what my colleagues here said, what our chairman here said. There's a lot of problems. I think the shift in politics is very obvious here. What would have happened ten years ago in this area would have automatically meant the collapse of governments. Today it's passing, today we're fighting for something that I don't think is defendable. And I think that we should all think about returning her good name to politics in the future and also making those who perform those functions aware that they are accountable to the Czech state and the Czech people. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I will vote in favour of the motion for distrust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u130	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with priority rights, Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Minister Jana Maláčová wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u131	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The opposition says we only add to the elderly. Besides not being true, it shows that they don't know how to live. And that they despise people. Because when we started, the pensions were about 10,000 on average. And I would like to see you, honourable Members, how you can live for this money. I'm just gonna recap for my resort who we've been helping. I will be Minister of Labour and Social Affairs for three years in July, and of that I spent more than a year dealing with the covid crisis. Nevertheless, we have managed to approve by common forces often more than 20 different laws that have helped families with children, employees, disabled, but also pensioners. Probably the most important thing is how we helped families with children. Higher parenting after 12 years. After 12 years, 300,000. And anyone with a baby knows how hard it is to handle a family, a job, and a living out of one salary. After 15 years, we managed to enforce a replacement maintenance. I know that this means nothing especially to the ODS, another unnecessary dose. But try to look around, look around your neighborhood and ask the singles how they live. Ask the singles what it's like when the other one doesn't pay you alimony and you can't call for justice. Of course, we should improve law enforcement, but we've been debating that for 30 years. And in the meantime, the kids graduated, some even graduated from college, despite the fact that no one helped them. And as of 1 July, the replacement maintenance will apply as in most developed countries. And I'm very proud of it. Because Slovakia, ladies and gentlemen, has had a substitute maintenance since 2007. So it will be 14 years later, 14 years later than Slovakia. We'll vote on the nursery tomorrow. There are different opinions about it, it arouses passions, but the goal of this law is that every family that needs a nursery can afford it. Because paying $8,000 a month isn't normal for me. And even though the state gives high funds to children's groups, they are still very expensive. I very much hope that together we can manage the available nursery. The second group, which is very important to me, are employees. We promised we'd cancel the quarantine period. That we'll reinstate the payment of the first three days of sick leave. And can you imagine how we could handle a pandemic without the card being canceled? After ten years of discussion, we introduced an electronic disability in seven months at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I have the same rhetorical question. Can you imagine if we could handle the pandemic without an electronic disability? I don't. The consequences would be much more fatal than they are now. When we joined the government as Social Democrats, the minimum wage was CZK 8,500. Today we have 15,200, and the government will decide at least one more wage. So I firmly hope that those who work will be able to make a living from their wages and that this will also apply to those who work for minimum wage. We increased wages and wages in social services by more than a third. Once again, those who stood in the first line during the pandemic are those who are the worst financially appreciated. That is why I am glad that social democracy, for example. last year she raised the financial valuation in social services by 10 percent. And next week, the Senate will approve the cursarbeit. A law that has been mentioned here for a long time, over 20 years. You know that Germany is 60 years old. And I firmly hope that the Czech Republic will be ready for the next economic crisis. I spent most of my time and effort as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs with so-called. Covido help. We've talked many times about the infirmary. Whether it's 80 or 70 percent. I wonder if when the schools are closed, the moms won't stay home, if we shouldn't motivate them to go to work, even when the schools are closed. And I am firmly convinced and very glad that it was right that we were providing the families with an infirmary at an above-standard rate throughout the time. The most successful government program in the last year and two months was the Antivirus program. That's not my opinion. This was said by the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry and Transport. And Antivirus saved over a million jobs. We have paid more than 4 million contributions to a million of these unique jobs for almost 70,000 companies. Unimaginable thing! If you sat with us at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in March last year and experienced how we first put together such a program in the history of the Czech Republic, you might even appreciate this incredible success even more so that it would work quickly so that companies could get the money immediately. Probably the most difficult thing to think about here was duct tape. I believe that in the third wave of the isola, it worked the most out of all the measures. On average, it helped us increase people's willingness to stay at home and not deliver more than ten percent of the disease. He's a big part of this, iso-lace, I'm talking about how we've handled the situation so well in the last few weeks. I must say that many of these things I have listed here have been much more than that, despite the YES movement. Despite the YES movement. I went to the government to help people help seniors, families with children, employees, handicapped. Not to defend my ministry. We also went to the government to stop the ODS coalition. That was one of our main motives. But also to prevent the SPD from gaining power. And when I look at what such engagements of the ODS and the ANO movement have caused, such a small tasting is, for example. the way super gross wages got cancelled. This is a thing that has extremely indebted us and will create unprecedented problems for us by the next few years. And that's exactly why we went to the government as Social Democrats. I must say, as a Social Democrat, I have also often considered leaving the government. It's the so-called thing. Red line. I've considered it very seriously. But at the same time, I admit that by the arrival of the covid, this has ended for me, and any departure from the government would be considered irresponsible. [[19.20 hours]] And I would also like to add that four months before the elections, I still consider the distribution of votes in the Chamber of Deputies and, with what the KSČM has said, this whole day wasted time. It's a waste of time. Social democracy or the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has ten unnegotiated laws in the House at the moment. I am not even talking about a fair pension reform. And we spent all day in a political circus instead of helping people and working for them. It's a huge shame, because we're not out of the crisis yet, we're not out of the pandemic. I think the risk of falling into the same sense that we won the pandemic is exactly the same as we did a year ago. So, if I were to sum this up, honourable Members, this was a waste of time and it would be a waste of time. I know that this is your parliamentary right, your constitutional right, but it is four months before the election, and I think that the voters in particular should hand out new cards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u132	Thank you. I have a factual point here - Mr Jurečka. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u133	Thank you, Mr President. I can't do it, I'm taking the liberty of reacting to some of the things the secretary here said a while ago. On the one hand, when she joined the government, the average pension in 2018 was CZK 12 391. The previous pension, so it was the result of the work of the previous coalition government, not hers. And if we look at, for example, where it went in 2019, in 2018, the amount of the pension against the net wage in the Czech Republic was 50,7%, in 2019 it was 51,5 %, but for the sake of interest, in 2015 it was more, it was 54,5 %. That means the real, real purchasing power of the pension was higher than it is today. Let's just measure it. Still don't let the absolute sums fall, but let's say the context. Madam Secretary said a lot of things here. Yes, some are true. Thanks to this House and thanks to us as a opposition, this has clearly been said here, to enforce some things. Anyway, I'm sorry about the things that maybe didn't work out. Yesterday, obstruction of social democracy, twice took a break. A law that would deal with clearly fixed teacher salaries for the future has set them up here by social democracies. This week we've been discussing the back of the Senate to help all the families where their parents are extremely concerned and caring for children who are autistic. Once again, social democracy and a personal letter from the Minister who fought against this. So, on the one hand, there's gonna be some nice things to say, what sounds good, but when you ask what the real situation is, if we know how these families live -- yes, we know we're very close to them, we have them in our families, but you killed these things!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u134	Thank you for keeping the time exactly. Mr Holomčík is enrolled in the debate, Mr Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u135	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, when I applied to the debate many hours ago, I wanted to talk about the National Recovery Plan. It is 180 billion that can help the Czech Republic to recover after covido in the coming years, and it is also a beautiful example of the fact that this government does not offer this country any future because it cannot. It is not - in fact, they are not able to keep the assignment from the point of view of participation and from the point of view of climate objectives, but above all, it is one big void. It's a drawer sweep, and it's a gluing of holes that we're sure to have a lot left over from this government, but there's no thought, no vision, no goal. And this is what I wanted to talk about. I wanted to ask or ask the Prime Minister some questions about the National Recovery Plan, but then I read some of his comments, whether here from the House or from social networks, and I realized that trying to have a substantive debate with the Prime Minister is completely unnecessary. I gotta say, that's pretty intense. Pirates and refugees. So let us remember that when Prime Minister Babiš was Minister of Finance in 2015, he explained in Luxembourg how easily we could accept 18,000 refugees. In the same year, the government voted to accept 1,500 refugees between 2015 and 2017. And I certainly don't want to open up the anti-immigration issue here, the moods here, but if you don't have arguments, put refugees there. The pirates will move your immigrants home! Do you really think the citizens of this country are complete fools? It really seems normal to you, to despise your own voters like that, when the chairman of your movement comes here to this counter and without any hint of shame, he just lies to those people through the TV cameras in the eyes. What a mess! That's absolutely unbelievably disgusting! And I'm an optimist. I'm trying to find something positive about everything. And I actually feel one positive thing about all of his lies and outbursts, and that's fear. If this goes on, we're gonna put out a sequel, or we're gonna release a sequel to a successful sci-fi comedy that I'm dreaming about when I'm sleeping, this time it's gonna be a psychological thriller called Who I'm afraid of when I'm awake. And it's gonna be all about us. I would just like to remind you that we are living in a time or at the moment when, according to current data, three quarters of this nation does not trust this government. And what does the Prime Minister have to say about this? With every single statement like that, what does he say to the public? He says, "Hey, guys, am I pissing you off yet?" You don't want me anymore? Do you want me to leave now? Then choose the pirát and the starosta because I'm afraid of them. And incredible campaign support. We wouldn't buy it for 200 million. Thanks for that!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. And I will ask Mr Svoboda for the debate, Mr Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u137	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The rest of the government, to the larger rest of the Members, I wish you a good evening. I finally decided after everything I heard here, and almost everything was said that I would stick to what I probably understood more than other things. The Prime Minister here accused us of being all amateur epidemiologists and getting into things we don't understand, so I'd just like to point out that the Communists didn't let me go to medical school general and I graduated from the Department of Hygiene, Hygiene and Epidemiology, so I have a state exam in this field. And maybe that's why, at the very beginning of last February, I actually warned this House about what is coming, what is the threat of this infection when analysing SARS infection, for example, and I asked how we are prepared for it, what equipment we have, what protective equipment we have, what we have in the pandemic-epidemic plan. And not only did I not get an answer, but this House laughed at me. Minister Vojtěch Adam blew me off with no such things on the table. And unfortunately, all that stuff happened. I repeatedly say that I would like to be wrong, but on the other hand, the fact that the facts that were actually known to epidemiologists, because this is all described in the textbooks from the old Haškovec, we've known all this for 50, 80 years, so it all came in handy and played a brave game. Somehow they got over it, and in the fall again I warned that there was some loosening going on, that the wearing of the robes and all these things were beginning to be forgotten. [[19.30 hours]] And Minister Adam, that was one of the few things where he actually respected certain guidelines that are clear in epidemiology, decided to wear drapes. I just have to say that the Prime Minister forbade him from talking to him about it, and he said that it was pointless, that the government headed by the Prime Minister decided that this thing was useless, so we tried it on the mountains in December, we tried it in queues at the buffets, we tried it on New Year's Silvestr, and after New Year's, we didn't have a second wave, we had a continuation of that wave of infections that was here once before. I called again because of my knowledge of what we're doing, what's the plan, how we're going to proceed, how we're preparing vaccinations, how we're buying it, if we're going to create vaccination centers, because there's no other option than to inoculate a huge number of people in the vaccination centers. It all fell under the table. Everyone was laughing again, and those things came up with a huge delay. The vaccination centre in Prague was opened about three Sundays ago with the presence of the Prime Minister, and it should have been working since January. The epidemiology says that if we know the infection and we know the way and the way to transfer, we have the only way to fight the infection. Find a cure for her or stop the transfer route. These are all things that are known. And what really scares me is that we're not doing anything again. It's exactly the same, my voice is now the voice of a caller in the desert. I say, what's the next plan? What are you gonna do? Where do you have any epidemiological principles that will be implemented in the nearest time? Where do you have any idea what you're gonna do? A random idea of whether or not we're gonna inoculate the kids. We'll probably have to. But we'd have to work on that by now. We would have to explain to these parents, tell them that this is necessary, because thanks to the approach that the government now has, thanks to the exchange of ministers, because of how badly she bought the vaccines -- my colleague Bendl has clearly demonstrated here that we have obtained about a third of what we could have, we still have a large spare of vaccines, and we still haven't worked out the situation, and we have no system of how we're going to proceed. People stop vaccinating just because they stop being afraid, because we tell them again that we did it, that we won. Some people don't wear that drape. I'm offering them, it's not so bad now, but I'm offering them, "Come to my hospital." Let's work on this super-heavy covid department, and I promise you, I will try to make sure that you can treat those lying, kneeling patients and not wear a mask. These are all things that must exist now, and the government must work on them. Intel on the population. Because these aren't things that can be handled by regulations. This requires consensus, it requires the consent of all people. That requires all of us to do it. And that's what you have to work on every day. This must be dealt with daily by the media, public television, but also by the government. Instead. To find out what the government did or didn't do to listen to it all day, we were supposed to be here on this day, and we were supposed to know what the next epidemic plan is, what the assembly is, what the steps are, what we're going to do, and how we're going to figure out that the next wave can come. I'm not scaring. The theory of the field, the epidemiology, that's what he says. He says a new wave comes once or twice after such great infections. The Spanish flu came in two years, the second wave was heavier than the first. I'm not saying something like this is going to happen, we have vaccinations available, but we have to be prepared for it. We have to have reserves to get a shot at the moment it starts. Because maybe the vaccination will have to be a little altered. We must deal as quickly as possible with how quickly the antibodies will fall and when we are in danger of starting again. The plan must be absolutely clear and must be constantly highlighted and said to people, because if they do not know, they will act as they did last December, and they will act as they do this summer. It's not their fault. That's the government's fault, that's the fault of those who are obliged and responsible for creating what's called an epidemic or pandemic plan, to create a group of people who will deal with it, which will understand it, which will not consist of various adventurers who will not deal with Ivermectin and other warts medications that aren't working at all on anything, even those warts in those pigs. And that's what actually tells me that this government can't be trusted, just because we need to say that the whole nation knows that there are mistakes, fundamental mistakes, and that we don't want to live with those mistakes. That we want them removed as quickly as possible, so that we can be absolutely clear about what is wrong. There's absolutely no need to say whether someone bought planes or time in 2013 for something more or less. The only concern we have now is how we deal with this situation. And we didn't do that, please, nicely. And that's why I don't trust this government. That is why I believe that speaking this distrust is important for us as for the opposition and for all the people in this country to find their own idea of how this life should go on here and how we will all make sure that we really live in a healthy society and not in a society that, by principle, is ill and which the government is making this disease very much worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u138	Well, have a nice evening, and a point of fact, Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Jiří Kohoutek will prepare to speak in the general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u139	Thank you. I would just like to point out here after Professor Svoboda has spoken so that we can remember what he said here on June 3rd at 7:36 p.m., at the time when the first third is played here, because unfortunately, it may be very likely that his words will come to pass, as did his words from January last year. And here today it did not come from anyone in the government, or from the Prime Minister, or from the Minister of Health, in what, after 14 months, this country is dealing with a covido, in which the government has taken measures to present and say: here we are instructed and here we know that we would not repeat these mistakes and that we could do it. There was no such thing here today from any of you, kind government. There is no clearly set up system of functioning smart quarantines, tracking, testing, there is no system of how it would proceed in case of further necessary reoccurrences. There is no use of the potential of technological solutions in hospitals, social care facilities, places with large concentrations of children and people. All these domestic companies offered it, science and research offered it. How the production capacity of protective equipment in the Czech Republic has changed. And a lot of other questions. [[19.40 hours]] And I would just like this government to be able to say really, if it's costing us billions of crowns here, this situation: we have learned from it. And not just for the coming months of this government, but for the future of any other government. Here's the lesson. It is managed to the level of overall management of state, regions, cities and municipalities, individual facilities and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u140	There. Thank you, too, for keeping the time precise. Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will now appear and Mr. Jaroslav Foldyna will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the SPD will never express confidence in this government in any vote and cannot express it today, especially for factual reasons. This government is just doing a bad policy. Her specific actions are not usually done in the interests of Czech citizens of the Czech Republic. This is seen in many areas of competence, including in the field of energy, which I am a member of the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies in very detail. The attitude of our government to the so-called "government" is essential, quite negative in this regard. energy policy of the European Union, first of all its consent to tightening up the so-called. climate commitments at the level of the institutions of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u142	I'll cut you off, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone have a TV on or a cell phone out loud? I have been brought to the attention of other Members here, so I would like it to be quieted in some way. [[I hear something, too.]] Yes, yes, yes. So please, you can continue. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u143	This means a sharp reduction in emissions directed at the words of the President of the European Commission to achieve climate neutrality in 2050, which will bring about the liquidation of a large part of the Czech industry and the threat to our energy self-sufficiency and security, as well as unprecedentedly indebt future generations of Čech, because they are projects in the order of up to trillions of crowns and basically everything is financed from credit from private foreign entities for which our state will guarantee. This process also means an obligation to increase the share of inefficient renewable energy sources in the overall energy mix of the Czech Republic. In addition, Minister Karel Havlíček stated that the total amount paid for this purpose from 2010 to 2030 will amount to approximately CZK 1 trillion, of which about 60 percent will go to the support of solar power plants. This alone is terrible and it is absolutely inexcusable what this government has committed us and our children and grandchildren to in Brussels. Lasting exorbitant support so called. Solar barons are also completely unacceptable to our SPD movement. We have called attention to this government many times, and we have tabled appropriate amendments to change the state budget under this heading, but the government is acting deaf and blind. And because she sometimes spoke timidly about limiting this senseless and oversized support, she did nothing. [[although]] By the way, the cost of achieving carbon neutrality in the Czech Republic will be almost twice as much compared to the old Western EU Member States, even because we are an industrial country with energy-based to a large extent on coal resources. [[Energy]] And unlike Polák, our government in the EU has not been able to negotiate the relevant exceptions that would take account of our situation when the whole crazy plan has no longer been underway, which would be the only right approach. It is also very eloquent to what our Czech Confederation of Industry and Transport says about European climate commitments, which is very concerned about this plan, with many risks, increased costs for a number of our economic sectors. Many sectors do not currently have available technologies to reduce their emissions even faster. The cost of tightening the emission reduction target in 2030 from 40 to 55 per cent was estimated by the European Commission at least EUR 94 billion, about CZK 2.5 trillion, per year for the whole EU. However, the costs for the Czech Republic will be quite higher due to the structure of its economy with a high share of industry, for example the first vice president of the Union and CEO of ČEZ Daniel Beneš. The Union of Industry and Transport also points out that the European Commission has not prepared a detailed study of the effects on Member States on climate targets. This increase also took place virtually without any necessary analyses, even taking into account the current very critical economic situation of European countries in relation to the impact of the Coronavirus on our economy. In these circumstances commit the Czech Republic to following these unrealistic and for us only harmful and dangerous environmental targets is gambling with the future. And the government that did this cannot have our trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u144	Mr Jaroslav Foldyna will now appear and prepare Mr Libor Hoppe. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Let me also say why I cannot support this government. It's not because of the coronavirus crisis, which I'm sure could have handled much better. I'm sure she went a lot harder to deal with, too. This is not even due to the conflict of interests of the Prime Minister, because Andrej Babiš was sent into politics by voters and it was clear at the size of Agrofert that there would always be some potential conflict of interest. Finally, due to Andrej Babiš and his possible conflict of interest, the House also adopted a special law. And he acted under the law. And by the way, this law has been created and enforced by the parties that today claim that this law is wrong, because Brusel also claims that it is. Neither a conflict of interest nor a solution to the coronation is a reason for me not to support this government. That's why it's different. During the reign of Andrej Babiš, the Czech Republic became a humiliated colony of EU bureaucrats and their minions. The foreign policy of this government has been disastrous all along. In my opinion, the worst is the existence of statehood in the Czech Republic. And it damaged the Czech Republic for years in advance because it showed us as a nation with its back. This is worse than any coronation and conflict of interest combined. During the reign of Andrej Babiš, but we come... and there has been the greatest attack on freedom of speech since November 1989. Ministry of the Interior of this government within the ČSSD, which was created and invented by prejudiced hatred (?). According to the Home Office, this prejudiced hatred can be hidden underneath anything. Pay whistleblowers who watch public space, report false opinions and eliminate whistleblowers. And the elimination of these informers will take years. This government supported an increase in power by unelected interest groups to such a size that, in the end, the Prime Minister himself listens to various reconstructions of the state and similar obscure associations, which are collectively referred to as political nonprofits. And that's more than he listens to his own constituents. These associations are already so bold and influential today that they allow themselves to determine what political decisions to be taken by some members of this House. This is an attack on the very essence of democracy, because the political-choice bond is replaced by the political-nonprofit bond. Even here, it will take years to correct. [[19.50 hours]] And hopefully the most important thing in the end. Freedom of speech. This fundamental freedom, guaranteed to every citizen by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, has now been maimed into a state where not only uncomfortable political views are being prosecuted, but even merely a statement of uncomfortable but proven fact. Something like that is deadly to society. Just recently, we were arguing about whether freedom of speech meant being free to lie. Today, after four years of this government, we would be happy only if freedom of speech meant at least freedom to tell the truth. And that's sad and dangerous at the same time. So if I do not support this government, it will not be for the activities of the Prime Minister and the ANO movement, but much more for their inaction, indecision and concessions to those who do not think so well about our country and our nation. And since such an agenda is promoted primarily by the coalition partner of the ANO movement, my distrust does not primarily belong to the ANO movement, but to its coalition partner. These were also the reasons why I left social democracy after 30 years. They're practically the same as what I said here. And in conclusion, let me just say one more thing. Economic damage can be repaired fairly easily. Correction, or better said, the healing of a broken soul, broken heart and bent back is much harder and much harder. But I firmly believe that the Czech nation is strong enough to do so. Although many, even some here in the House, wish the opposite. So here I have given the reasons why I will not support this government, and I hope you understand why I wanted to say this thing here. Thank you for your attention. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u146	Mr. Jan Chvojka, Chairman of the ČSSD Club, will speak with a factual remark. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u147	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, nice evening. I just really wanted to respond to a fellow speaker, Mr Foldyna, through you, Mr Vice-President. I'm unlucky or lucky that my colleague, Foldyna, sat with me for several years in my parliamentary faction and I know him and I love him. Unfortunately, our views were broken up at a certain time. But I'm sure I remember what he said about the conflict of interest law isn't true. I wanted the law of conflict of interest to be amended in the previous term, I put important amendments first as an MP, then I had this law as a minister of legislation. And the conflict of interest law is not considered as bad as it was approved in 2017. This is not how Czech politicians, apart from the policies of the YES movement, regard it as bad, nor does the European Union. The law responded to this, and it was nothing against Mr Babiš, how some media managed to sell to the public, but it responded in general to the fact that whoever it is, whether it is the Prime Minister, the Minister or someone else, should not be the one who decides whether to send subsidies or the person who accepts the subsidies, that the Prime Minister - there were also attempts to be a governor or mayor - should not own the media, because, of course, it is what deformifies political competition and the media market in some way. The fact that someone didn't understand the spirit of the law that they say: you can't own companies that take public contracts, for example, or participate in public contracts and receive subsidies, but you couldn't write into the law any more: but yours - shouldn't even be your brother or your mother or your sister or daughter in the company, so it's obviously already a law circumvention. [[Time warning]] But you couldn't put it that way in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u148	Mr Libor Hoppe will now appear and prepare Mr Jiří Kobza. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u149	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Government, many have already been said here, but once again and very briefly from the point of view of a man who is only briefly here in the House. I could have watched the entire period of this government more as an ordinary citizen. Especially recently, when she literally wiped out some of the privates with her decisions during the pandemic, she literally made fun of the citizens with her chaos and made fun of the decision. I'm not going to bring everything up here. Just why are the kids we're testing today and the teachers who are inoculated still wear drapes? Household savings, as the Prime Minister mentioned, are growing. But he didn't say it was all closed. That the D1 will be fixed this year, that's a miracle. It should have been repaired a long time ago. Small establishments also closed insanely. The fact that the markets were open and the shoes couldn't be bought in a small store was one big tragic comedy. I understand that it is necessary to take action during the pandemic. But I think with the help of some tests, these little shops and other establishments could have worked. I'm not saying that the car show was closed, too, where 100 people aren't coming into the car show. People are not stupid and they are directly affected by what the government does de facto daily. Dear friends YES, I do not mean you, MEPs YES, simply for you just in the future maybe such a comment. Think about changing the proposal that you would change your name to NO, because you voted mostly not in full and constructive opposition proposals. Yes, the government must be distrusted. Today, the Communists may have gone on a trip, so even if we say we don't have faith, I don't think it's gonna work. However, I would have one more thing, so light for the future. Maybe it wouldn't be wrong for us to pay for the government's carousel ticket with swans and go there until the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u150	Member Jiří Kobza will appear and Mrs Monika Jarošová will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u151	Thank you, Mr President. I wouldn't be here to discuss a whole wide range of things that make me disagree with what happens in the government and how the government acts. I would stick to one direction, namely the way in which the government, specifically in the case of foreign policy, is essentially wasting money that we do not have, which we have to borrow. The point is that our government, through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, provides relatively large resources for so-called foreign development and transformation cooperation, and in the next chapter, where contributions are made to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions, are almost CZK 2 billion. So, just to cut to the chase, I'm gonna try to be brief because the time has passed, it's hockey, and I'm gonna stick to the most material speech. So, for example, for the Council of Europe at the Václav Havel Award, it is dedicated to three quarters of a million. An action plan for Ukraine - a million, but God knows what's under it. Radio Free Europe is dedicated to 2 million, the Asian-European Foundation - 600,000. Trust fund for Africa - 222 million. A trust fund for Colombia - a quarter of a million. Antarctica Treaty - a million 200 grand. University of California, University of California - 7.5 million. OECD Action Plan for Sustainable Development Goals - a million 500 thousand. But then there are more interesting projects, such as: the development of the broccoli chain in the Armenian Lori region with the participation of women - a quarter of a million. Building a water system and drip irrigation plantation with organic figs in Bosnia and Herzegovina - half a million. Supporting the revival of craft fishing for molluscs and community tourism in Ecuador - almost half a million. Music for Ethiopia - 300,000. Czech School for Gambian Girls - a quarter of a million. Improving the skills of girls in agricultural areas in tailoring and embroidery on machines in India - less than 400,000. I don't understand why our citizens don't get this money. [[20.00 hours]] The point is that foreign development aid projects are actually carried out indirectly. This means that the Ministry does not directly implement them, but does it through most non-profit organizations. And it is understandable that the involvement of the intermediary in the efficiency of development aid, even if it is targeted and reasonable, is already making it extremely expensive. And trying to make sure that the aid to the countries that definitely need it and which, most of all, do not receive it, such as Jordan, is the money that the middlemen, the nonprofits, are taking a quite substantial share of it, and that the aid is very expensive. Moreover, development aid to work, to have some effect for us, so it has to be seamlessly linked to commercial relations, it is intended to enable them to familiarise themselves with Czech products in that country, I don't know, irrigation pumps, for example, and then to make the gift flowing into sales of spare parts, other entities and such. That is a remark I consider very important. It came from a meeting that I had with the Jordanian king two years ago, when he said he had a problem with getting some help, he only got a fraction of it. So when we see our government throwing money away on the one hand, on the other hand, it's money that it doesn't, because a growing deficit in the state budget means that we have to borrow the money somewhere so that we can give it away, so I find it inordinately generous and, of course, it's hard to identify ourselves with that. There's a lot of ways to save money. We can re-open sources of finance that could help us, which will be the form of taxing dividends from foreign companies that go abroad. We can start to think about how foreign companies that have taken investment incentives here that part of their profits should have to reinvest in further development here with us to ensure additional jobs and other jobs. But for our people, not for the foreign workers they bring here. In short, our government must not function as a Katz Feldkurate and spend money it borrows. We should think about how to save money, how to spend money wisely and carefully, and look for resources that are still unopened. So the way to raise taxes, as we see, for example, in the pirate program, is certainly not. But we can't manage by handing out money abroad for nonsense projects that we have to borrow for. These are my reservations only on this narrow segment, actually, which I chose for today's contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u152	Mr Marian Jurečka will now speak with a point of fact, and Mrs Monika Jarošová will be prepared. Please, Prime Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u153	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is sitting here. I'd expect him to get up now and tell you why development aid makes sense and that the money is invested meaningfully. He didn't do it, I'm going to do it. Because as Minister of the previous government of Bohuslav Sobotka, I had the opportunity to see useful projects of development assistance of the Czech Republic abroad. I don't know how many Mr. Kobza saw in real life, how many of those people who specifically do these projects in those countries, you had the opportunity to talk. I've had a chance to visit a lot of them. I spoke to people I knew personally, who had dedicated their lives to the work, they had been abroad for ten or twelve years. Take a look at the story of Tey Tihounová from Charity Czech Republic, who died in Zambia a year and a half ago. You're talking about these people here, that they're the ones who took something as middlemen somewhere and that they're somehow benefitting from it. Those are really people who are hearts. People who go to those countries to help restore agriculture so that these people can feed themselves. Build some basic things in the field of health care or social care or education. The reason for this money is that if we want to talk about migration and we want migration to be dealt with in the places where it comes from, there is a sense of development project. After all, there we help those people to make a living on their own, to have a safe place to live, to be educated, and not to come to Europe here, so that they can feed themselves, their families, their own needs in that place, whether in the east or in the south, wherever in Africa. That is the purpose of development aid. And the Czech Republic gives an amount that is rather lower than giving countries around us, including Poland or the Visegrad Four. But there's a point, there's a profound point, this money to invest in it. If we're doing it right. [[Attention on time.]] And I think we're doing it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u154	Mr Jiří, Mr Kobza, will take a real note. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u155	Thank you, Mr President. I'd just like to respond to Mr. Jurečka through you. Because I don't know how many development aid projects he's been working on. I've spent quite a lot of time in this. I was involved in these projects because I also worked with a non-profit organization in Africa for a time, where I spent a year and a half in the African countryside. So I really know something about it. And I've seen enough of these projects on my travels, which may not have been directly related to this help because I had another job. But I've been in contact with these people, and I've spoken not only to those who carry them out, but to those who get them. And especially in Jordan, it was very informative. So I'm based on a vast number of cases from my own experience and what I've seen and experienced and experienced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u156	One more point of fact. Member Václav Klaus. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not much of a performer anymore. But it's almost eight o'clock in the evening and spending time here that Mr. Jurečka is responding to Mr. Kobza's response to development aid when we're dealing with distrust of the government, I find it absolutely fantastic. So I'm just asking you to pull yourself together and let's get this thing going for the vote. If you guys are having so much fun talking to each other, go somewhere in the pub and talk about it, but I really can't take it anymore, this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u158	Member Monika Jarošová will now appear and Mr Martin Baxa will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u159	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are to decide whether this government is still enjoying the trust of this Chamber of Deputies. The SPD did not support this government in its creation, since it did not represent for us someone who could effectively and effectively defend the interests of this country, especially when social democracy is part of that government. How did the government, which closed schools in Europe for the longest time, and thus significantly disrupt their social inclusion, shut them down at home on computers, without the possibility of moving? What do you think of a government that produces one chaotic regulation after another, and that it is not enough that its ministers break themselves? How to call a government that changes health ministers more often than the seasons change thanks to the papalism of its members in critical times. Finally, what to call a government that has confused the fight against coronavirus for fighting, therefore, its own citizens, who have paralyzed endless lockdowns without significant results? [[20.10 hours]] But the pandemic was not the only one where this government failed and demonstrated its total incompetence. I'll mention one more that concerns all of us very much. And I mention him as a member of the agricultural committee. This is the government's approach to supporting its own farmers and not interested in preferring Czech agricultural production at the expense of the foreign one. The government preferred the interests of multinational chains and their suppliers over the interests of our growers and breeders. The SPD is aware of the importance of self-sufficiency in this sector for the stability and security of this state. That is why we are actively supporting this self-sufficiency and will continue to support it. The government, however, apparently under pressure from foreign suppliers and their lobbyists, concluded that the interests of the French, Spanish or German farmers are more important than those of our producers and that onions imported from somewhere in New Zealand are probably more tasty than the Czech ones. Even the high price and low quality of these products did not convince her otherwise. For these and many other reasons, such as the continued support of nonsense political non-profit organizations, the government will not gain my trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u160	Mr Martin Baxa will now appear and prepare as the last to be prepared by Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u161	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, allow me to highlight in my speech one important, essential thing which in itself is a key argument for me to make for distrust of the government of Andrej Babiš, in addition to all the reasons that have been raised here and which are indeed dozens. And believe me, as mayor of the fourth largest city in our country, from March 2020 until recently, I had to face all the consequences of government chaos, unpredictable measures, inability to explain clearly to citizens what is currently happening, including the fact that last spring we faced a very difficult shortage of protective equipment, simply that the major effects of this crisis have fallen on us, on the self-government, which the government of Andrej Babiš certainly failed to cope with. But I am going back to what is the reason for me, which I would particularly like to emphasise here, because it affects all the people in this country, and that is the situation in education. Colleagues, believe me, I remember exactly the 11th March 2020 when the government decided to close schools, a completely unprecedented step that was never in history, when almost every school system in our country was closed by day and when all those who are educational actors - pupils, parents, teachers, founders - were faced with a situation with which they had no experience, and were not prepared to deal with it in a way. It turned out that flexibility was a great advantage of Czech education in the spring. Teachers had to learn from day to day in the order of days, then for a few weeks to change to a completely different way of teaching, to distance teaching, to teaching without middle contact, to teaching which closed children in their homes and which actually forced teachers to find a way of learning that had been very unusual until then. At the time, we tolerated these measures, accepted them, because we all faced an unknown threat that we had no idea about, and we saw only those distant examples from the countries of Asia and then from Italy or some others, where the effects of the coronavirus pandemic were terrible. We were able to adapt to this very quickly - the schools, the teachers, the founders of these schools. But I must say that the state, as in other areas, began to gradually lose its breath and failed to respond well to the situation that occurred in the Czech schools. At the turn of April and May, when the situation improved significantly, the first serious effects of distance teaching, which we could have suspected would occur, began to appear in full nudity only after a great distance, i.e. that the differences in Czech education had deepened. As early as that spring, surveys found that around 10,000 pupils remained completely out of distance teaching, that hundreds of thousands of others have serious problems simply because they do not have quality techniques or that they do not have sufficient background and support to be well oriented in distance education. By the way, colleagues and colleagues, for example, those pupils in primary schools were almost one million. It means, it really touched everyone. As things improved, life gradually began to return to schools. Slower than we believe was needed. Even then, the government made serious mistakes. It is a need for a decision by the Minister of Education that the single entrance exams had only one term at the time. However, the situation was returning to normal. Holiday's here. And the experts warned that there was no victory over the covid. And that, in my opinion, is where, in these decisive summer months, we began to face a situation where the government closed its eyes to the problems that could come, including in education itself. And then when it all came down to that, thanks to all the stories that we know, by ignoring the signals that were, thanks to Prime Minister Babiš's desire to close our eyes to problems and paint reality pink, by not taking such basic measures as tracking, effective massive testing, we suddenly found ourselves in some déjà vu on October 12th, when the government then decided to close schools again, in a situation where sufficient conditions were simply not created to make the new cycle of closed periods of education much more favourable than the spring cycle. Ladies and gentlemen, what happened here in the 2020/2021 school year is completely inexcusable. It simply happened that the Czech Republic had almost the longest closed schools compared to Europe. And it is not a consequence that the situation in our country is so much worse, so much more dramatic, but simply that Andrej Babiš and his government have failed to respond to this situation as needed at the moment. Support for schools came very slowly. The government has decided to purchase computer technology for primary schools, for example, but not for secondary schools. There was much lack of support for teachers who had to face the difficulties of distance teaching for months to come. When we read the reports of the Czech School Inspectorate this spring, there was no reduction in the number of pupils who remained outside distance instruction. They did not think individually of the individual families, of each individual pupil who had these problems. And we began to respond flexibly as Czech education again to this bad situation, but the government failed to help those who needed help sufficiently effectively. And then we have already witnessed hard-to-believe missteps, such as the promise of the then Minister of Health Prymula: On November 2nd, schools will open up. Then all of a sudden the schools didn't open. We have witnessed various other promises from January this year that schools will open up, and so it did not. We have seen that, instead of taking forceful measures in education, which would bring about a faster opening, the period of unprecedented school closure continued to remain with those other and other flat-rate interventions and continued to extend. It was AntiCovid's SPOLU coalition team, which had already proposed clear and functional solutions at the beginning of February: testing, priority teacher vaccination, school equipment and protective equipment, and the possibility of children returning to schools more quickly. In the end, the government took over all of our actions, but with great delay, sluggishly. And after each of these slow decisions, there were more and more weeks when schools stayed closed. It's actually easy to say: schools stay closed, children stay home, education in front of computer screens, parents manage somehow. But I think that we will only see all the impacts that the schools have had in the long term and what serious consequences this has left in Czech education. [[20.20 hours]] Lack of support, late testing, too large-scale solutions, failure to find functional models eventually led to the fact that the children's return to schools has already been fulfilled, but we have the infamous primacy of the longest closed schools in our country. It is a huge problem, a huge boulder, which will only be very hard to move away from the educational paths of some pupils, who simply did not have the luck to have strong home-quality support, who in a country where compulsory school attendance applies and each pupil is entitled to quality education, stayed away and remained without sufficient help. And now we will see if this government will still prepare some effective tools for helping these children. But what's left, that year of closed schools, that school year 2020/2021, when the kids almost didn't get to school, isn't going to just go away. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is in itself simply because the closure of schools concerned such a large part of our population, such a large part of our society, is sufficient in itself to ensure that this government cannot have our trust because it has left irreparable damage or difficult to repair the damage to our children's education in our country by not helping them sufficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u162	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, chairman of the ODS Club, is now prepared with priority rights by the President of the Pirates Club, Jakub Michálek. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u163	Thank you for the floor. I feel like almost everyone who wanted to get off has already gotten off. Let me, at this point, propose the application of Section 59, in order for the House to decide that a Member may speak on this point not more than twice, with one appearance not exceeding 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u164	Okay. Then we'll have to vote. That means two or fifteen minutes, Mr. Chairman, did I hear you right? [[Member Stanjura agrees. Gong.]] I'm the one who got the bang. I'll check you out, sign up with your voting cards again. We will vote on the proposal by the President of the ODS to limit speaking time to twice 15 minutes. [[Members are coming to the ballroom. Gong.]] I will give some room, because the chairman of the ODS club has certainly surprised a number of Members. [[Gong. The President is waiting for the arrivals.]] I think we've been waiting for, like, a minute, I've gotten engaged a couple of times. Mrs Dražilová - spare card No. 23. So I'll repeat the proposal. The chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura proposes to limit speaking time to twice 15 minutes from now. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 120 Members registered, for 96, against 13. The motion was accepted. So we'll continue the debate. Jakub Michálek, chairman of the Pirates Club, is now acting with priority rights. Of course, you are not covered by the restriction because you have a priority right. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u165	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I know it's advanced time, but please give me a moment of attention. Some of you asked why we're here today. Well, I'll show you why we're here. [[It's showing a graph.]] This is the basic reason we're here today. If you compare the Czech Republic with the average European country, we are at twice the number of victims. The difference is 15,900 lives of people. It's equivalent to 10 million inhabitants. Pirates and starosta were completely loyal to this country, and the government's last distrust was voted on in 2019. Since then, during the pandemic crisis and during the diplomatic crisis, we have not called for a vote of mistrust because we are loyal to this country. We were actively involved in things that needed to be dealt with, e.g. on the pandemic law, which we tabled in January of this year and which was subsequently approved and thanks to which we had a significantly shorter period of time during which the emergency situation lasted. If we didn't come up with that pandemic law then we're probably prolonging the emergency until today. However, the number of infected people has decreased, and it is no longer possible to ignore what has been happening here, to move on by not evaluating it. The vote on trust is an act that also accounts for the previous period for citizens, as well as a clear sense of responsibility, because the vote will show by which the government is held in power and who is therefore claiming responsibility for the results of this government. We need to ask ourselves why we have the difference. And I think it would be serious for a government majority to explain to us why we have twice as bad results as the average of the European Union, why our prime minister has achieved twice as bad a result as the average prime minister of the European Union, and why so many people have paid for it in vain, why people have had to fear here for a year, were more likely to get hurt. [[shows the graph]] I'll remind you, we were active opposition, constructive. A year ago, almost a day ago, we approved here the resolution of 4 June 2020, the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies to prevent the second wave of the pandemic. [[shows the background]] And in that resolution, we approved, among other things, that the government prepare a testing strategy if the second wave comes. We have agreed there to update the Epidemiology - Mass Disease Type Plan and, in the case of the second wave, to allow the government to move forward, to finally meet the epidemiology commission, to complete the concept of smart quarantine and the pandemic alert system with clear follow-up steps. We all know what happened after that. These articles are over a year old: Andrej Babiš: don't be afraid of the second wave, the government will never put any restrictions on the surface again. [[shows again]] - čili in these comments, the Prime Minister reiterated that there is no need to create a special plan, as the opposition asks. The plan is that we watch it every day, smart quarantine watching it. I don't understand what the opposition wants from us, it's never gonna be a big deal... So this way. Even though we warned the government, the Prime Minister was making it easy, and even then, during the holidays, he paid for a Facebook ad that coronavirus was weakening, that it was no longer such a problem that we should focus on cancer, etc. Without in any way reducing the importance of combating other diseases, the easing that took place by the government was really inappropriate. [[20.30 hours]] What is important at this meeting today is that we learn not to repeat the mistake we made last time, that when the opposition pointed out the problem that the government was making light of it. And now we're in the same situation. Yes, we have an election coming up, and we know there's a problem with the virus mutating, and we should have the capacity and infrastructure ready in the fall, what's going to happen if new mutations come in here so we don't fall asleep on laurels. And if we were to learn from this, I think that would be one important thing to do. The 15,900 lives of people who died in addition to the European average are a terrible number. Some of us sitting here, sitting in the hall, lost our loved ones. We even lost a colleague. We were worried about colleagues from our MPs who belonged to vulnerable groups, and all 10 million people lived in restrictions. Some of these measures proved to be useless, others from wall to wall, and much of those measures were abolished by the courts for lawlessness. Some experts have escaped, others have been removed. The fear among the population, of course, had its reason, because from October to April, for example, our most vulnerable groups, our seniors 75+, had more than 60 percent of the deaths compared to the normal state, which is calculated from five years before, the so-called P-score. It's coming from an international human mortality database. From these data, they quote, among other things, the journals Science and Nature as well as the universities at Berkeley and Max Planck Institute. So these are definitely data we can trust. And there's really no other way of explaining that by reporting, there's no way of explaining that by car accidents, as Minister Blatný tried to do. In short, these people were two-thirds more likely to die for seven months, and that is totally unacceptable, and we must not let that happen. The reason for this is bad preparation. I think we all see it here in the Chamber of Deputies, when we look at the fact that the only thing the ruling coalition has done in Parliament to prevent some colleagues from following the government's measures of wearing drapes, the only thing we have done here is to build a plastic box like this. A completely out-of-control situation, an unenforceable right, and for those who take parliamentary salaries here, there are completely different rules than for citizens who receive fines on the street when they do not wear a drape against the regulation. When we look at the overall dates of comparison of the so-called excess mortality, we cannot accept the argument that only the Czech Republic has any more accurate reporting than our western neighbours Austria and Germany. It should be added that some other states have done similarly recklessly, such as Hungary, partly Poland. But when we look at the comparison with Austria, the excess mortality at the peaks is 60 per cent, or 60 per cent more people died in those times of crisis in Austria, while in the Czech Republic it was 110 per cent, or more than twice the excessive deaths. So the situation was actually twice as bad as it was in the surrounding Western states. And it is not at all possible to downplay this by having problems in Poland as well. Therefore, I find it totally unacceptable that such a serious matter is being downplayed here by some economic measures, that thanks to the growth of the economy, these groups have been added to the fact that wages have been growing here. That's all good, that's right, that's nice. It's great that the seniors are adding 300 crowns. But how, for God's sake, can the 300 crowns balance the burden that has been caused here by the great government that this man is in danger of health, is he even in danger of his own life? I don't want to accuse the government of buying voters in any way. This is, of course, absolute nonsense, because only a fool would sell his health and his future for 300 crowns. The list of things that Prime Minister Babiš has performed here, with which he has boasted, is very extensive, but he is missing the really important thing, why we have mistrust of the government here, and that is the unmanaged pandemic. It's the third worst result in the world we're talking about. And, of course, as he promoted his achievements at a time when our country was economically successful, he should take responsibility at a time when we have a crisis and when those results are objectively bad. But not only is the Prime Minister making excuses, but he's spreading bullshit because he's leaking into his shoes. So what we've heard here today, all these different insults, stickers, nonsense, bullshit about when he was making excuses, that the pirát are actually responsible for everything, and that the pirát here want to move migrants into people's apartments and the like, and now he's still sharing it on Twitter, it's totally unacceptable. We went into politics to make it polite. Some of us may have been offered an offer to study in America or other states at prestigious universities, and instead we said: we want to do something for our country so that we do not have to be ashamed of our policies so that the young generation can help cultivate Czech democracy. But instead, there's a huge bunch of swearing, labeling, nonsense, bullshit and so on. It basically reminds me of the way the Communist Party once opposed Charter 77. First of all, scaring people with nonsense about someone moving migrants into their apartment. That's what the Prime Minister said, that's what Prime Minister Babiš was referring to in his speech, and then he wrote it on Twitter. We can't have a disinformer at the head of the state. We don't have anything like that on the agenda. We're never gonna do that, so I'd like to ask the Prime Minister to stop spreading the alarm message. And since I don't see him here, I'd like to ask him to come out of his office and apologize for these charges. Two. Scaring people that there'll be tens of thousands of taxes on the house and the apartment, similar to other false reports. Absolutely a lie. The truth is that we have promised not to indebt this country and that we want good public services and pensions to remain in the Czech Republic. And we have pointed out that this is unsustainable after the ANO movement pushed through the tax package, which dropped CZK 100 billion in revenue. So the only thing we have in the real estate program is an increase in commercial real estate taxes, for those halls in Prague, for which taxes are significantly lower than in the rest of Europe. And three. What has been said and spread by some people here in the Chamber of Deputies, even though everyone knows it's not true, and it's haunting our seniors and seniors that someone will take their driver's license. What a stupid thing to do. On the contrary, the only thing that we have pushed through here in the Chamber of Deputies, and that we Pirates have participated in, is that the person who has the license will no longer have to carry it with him because he has ID and the license will be digitally linked to the ID, and the police will find it whenever they find it. So let us try to base our action on intergenerational solidarity. We, for example, have discussions between seniors and young people to exchange experiences and world views, but we do not support this way of scaring seniors and seniors by spreading total bullshit. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] When I was in the country, I met with, among other things, one 70-year-old wise aunt, and she said, "I don't read shit." A lot of things that go by e-mail and all that, a lot of things that spread around here like nonsense, and to which the Prime Minister basically contributes with his comments, these things disappear very quickly. It's just the foam of days. But the things that we're dealing with here, serious, like our experience with coronavirus, with the annual crisis, these are things that will last. And that's why we should focus on them and not distract them with this kind of smokescreen. [[20.40 hours]] I ask myself a question after a year that the seniors were basically locked up at home and were two-thirds more likely to get hurt: Are there really such people among us who want the atmosphere of fear to deepen? To scare these people completely, to fear in their own home? There can be nothing worse than these people who have been through such a difficult time, haunting other nonsense. So, please, let us not contribute our speeches, spread on social networks, and so on to making the election campaign a dirty election campaign. Let us strive for the decency in politics to base our statements on facts, on data, on figures, on things that can be verified, not on some bullshit. If it were the only way, if it were the only result of today's negotiations, that - first - we learn from what we did last year when the opposition, the pirát, the starosta and others warned about the threat of a second wave, we now point out that we are at risk of mutations and that we need to prepare for it. If the only result is that we learn from this and that, at the same time, we can manage as members of the legislature to come to the next elections with a decent campaign, proudly, without lies and disinformation, I think it would be a great result of today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u166	President Jakub Michálek's performance has triggered a number of requests for factual remarks, so I will read the order. First is Mrs Věra Procházková, then Radek Koten, Marian Bojko, Lubomír Volný. So, Mrs Procházková, please, you have two minutes. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u167	Thank you. Good evening, everyone. You know, I thought I wasn't gonna talk today, but when I heard my colleague, Mr Michálek, right at the beginning, I just didn't get it and I had to sign up. Life as it really was at that critical time before Christmas. Do you know where it started? Where was the worst? And where did it spread from? West to east. It was in Cheb. It was in the Karlovy Vary Region, and it was, imagine, exactly a week after Mr. Mayor Cheba, the local starosta, organized the Christmas markets. Why not, it was just before the election, it was necessary somehow to make the citizens more comfortable and, despite the government's recommendation that Christmas markets should not be done, and the Karlovy Vary mayor for YES respected the recommendation, so still the Christmas markets were happening. And in the media and everywhere, on social media, too, photographs show that people stood there at booths without masks, without respirators, drinking, hugging, including foreigners. And after a week of driving an ambulance, and I had it firsthand, it got crazy. Not only on New Year's Eve, but the second time I served, we started delivering those patients. [[Time.]] So what's the truth?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u168	Mr Radek Koten will now come forward and I will read one more order. Furthermore Marian Bojko, Lubomír Volný, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Petr Třešňák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u169	Good evening. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, it is an advanced time here, and I would just like to add, as far as I am concerned... [[Voices from the diaper: Louder!]] Out loud? Well, I'm gonna put it down a little bit. [[Mr Koten is editing the microphone.]] Anyway, as far as the support of this government is concerned, I resent a few things. It is mainly the failure of practical doctors, who should have taken precautions at the beginning of the pandemic so that those who receive covid should not be treated only on the phone, but to receive some medication from the doctor and recommendations on what to do. So they've been treated here on the phone, which means they've been recommended some paralen, some tea, and so be at home and don't carry on carrying that covid. I think that's quite a few, because the drugs that significantly affected the progress in the development of the covid were many, those doctors knew it from publicly available sources, but unfortunately the Ministry of Health didn't do anything about it. Unfortunately, there was no methodological instruction that would determine that practical doctors should use Isoprinosine at the beginning of the disease. And I think that the hospitalization of those people who went to the ICU would be significantly less. Unfortunately, this government failed at these moments, and I think that even the purchases that were under the emergency situation were not entirely kosher, which was proved by the SAO's analysis. [[Time.]] So I'd like those things to be resolved here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u170	Now Member Marian Bojko and will prepare Lubomír Volný. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to President Michálek, who has been flamingly speaking about how some Members here are violating the regulation and so on that there are some superhumans and do not have penalties for it. I would assure you that I have so many sanctions that a mailman who comes to our house and brings mail, throws it in a mailbox or hands it to his wife, so he thinks I'm the biggest pirate on the road that I drive so fast that I have so many tickets. My wife doesn't explain it to her, it doesn't matter. So I get fines like any citizen who violates government regulations, and I'm happy to break them. And the second thing I would explain to the audience here is how the media is constantly lying that Volný Members and Bojko are sitting in an aquarium. Let them come and see, they'll film who's sitting in that aquarium! So don't lie with the media. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u172	Mr. Lubomír Volný will now appear with priority... [[Voices from the diaper.]] Well, no, no. Real notes are not before priority rights. No. [[Member Bartošek objects off the microphone.]] No, factual remarks take precedence over priority rights. Unfortunately, that's in line... or it's in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. No, unfortunately... [[Fun in the hall.]] Yeah, sorry. No, I've already read those factual remarks, Mr. Chairman, over and over again. [[Vondráček]] It's just, fair and square... four ahead of time know they're on de facto. So please, Mr Volný, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u173	So, first of all... hey, Lubošek, daddy loves you. [[He's waving to the camera.]] [[He's sending a virtual kiss.]] Bye-bye. And then here, comrades of the Gottwald pirát: He also promised the people that they would not own their trades and that they would not nationalize. And as modern-day communists of the Bolshevik Stalinist type, of course, you're lying to your future victims that you won't steal from them. But you already have it planned, and that's exactly what you were learning at the universities in America. At the universities in America, Mr. Ferjenčík could say at the universities in England and so on. That's where you guys go to learn how to twist this freedom and democracy around your neck. As Kléma used to go to the Soviet Union to learn it, so today you go to the Bolshevik United States, where exactly those areas where people like you, pirát, zelený and the like of Antifa... Antifa and the like, you're already in control today, and those states aren't enough. There aren't enough of these states. And one of the basic features that those states have is that people who have real estate and can't not pay taxes are just being raped by the system to have to sponsor your junkie friends, those who helped you in that clinic to continue spreading the word pirate. So in the United States, it's common for people who have real estate to pay higher taxes today than when they used to pay mortgages, so they can sponsor what you want to put in here right now, those are those free-knuckles. So those drug addicts in the United States don't just get the space and all the equipment, but they just get everything. And it's the grandmothers and grandfathers that you steal from all their property because you're lying here today, like Klement Gottwald once did. And you'll end up just like them. Attempted mass murder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u174	Time! Mr Petr Třešňák will now make a point of fact. So please, your two minutes, you have the floor. If you ask me. [[disinfection of the greek]] [[The Member does not ask, but Mrs Cernochová at the rapporteur's table.]] You're asking, so please, ma'am. [[Quick disinfection of the counter and microphone. Some Members comment.]] You started some conversation with the lady here. There you go. It is in the Rules of Procedure that the Member shall speak to the microphone. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u175	Have a good night. I do not want to respond to the words of Mr Lubomír Volný. I believe that this will raise a number of other factual points. I only wanted to attend the previous speech by Mrs Procházková. Seduce the situation in Cheb to the Christmas markets in Cheb is really over the line. Especially when Christmas markets also took place in Karlovy Vary. Whether there were a little different measures than in Cheb, it is possible, but it is completely comparable to what took place in Cheb. And what happened then from January onwards and how the covide pandemic started there, and how the government was apathetic when the region asked for cross-border aid, that is another fact that has not already been mentioned. And as the ninth hour is approaching, I will use the actual name of the clubs that called this meeting to extend the meeting after 21st and 24th hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u176	Okay. I'll call the MPs. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. I'll do it again. We will vote on the proposal of the MPs who called this meeting to be held both after 21.00 and after 24.00. One vote. I think we're in enough quantity here... I can still see through the open door that someone's coming. So I'll repeat the proposal. The proposal of the five MPs who called this meeting to take place today after both 21st and 24th hours. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered by 126 Members, for 114, against 5. The motion was accepted. So Mr Milan Feranec will now speak on a factual point and prepare Mr Lubomír Volný on a factual point. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I respond to what Mr Michálek said, but it has been said today from many other opponents, when you were chasing the government, how inconsistent it was, how it did not implement the measures. During the pandemic, even though we acted in half the format, I may have been here one day always. And I don't remember a single case where the opposition came forward and said: Attention, government, you're loosening up too fast! You should tighten the measures! Tell me the only time you've ever said such a thing here! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u178	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak on the point of fact and prepare himself, still on the point of fact - ah, now it has come up. So factual comment Lubomír Volný, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Martin Kupka, order. So, MP Lubomír Volný, please, you have two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u179	I'd like to draw attention to those cowardly pirates who are threatening me with a physical attack now and screaming vulgarly at me that I'm ever ready to go out with them. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] And please, let's talk about pirates. The Zlin pirate was destroying the facades. One thing. The Prime Minister's girlfriend here made porn. The pirates have been in the House for eight months, and they're already stealing electricity. But he's learning fast from the more mature parties. The company of pirate politics supplies drapes and authorities where fellow party owners rule. The same porn actress is meeting secretly, I don't know if because of the first profession, or because she's cheating on the Vice-President here, or because she's arguing some kind of business, she's meeting with TomáTomáš Tenzer from a company that rents advertising stuff somewhere on the subway. So I think if the pirát brought anything to the House, they brought drugs, they brought the incredible arrogance of the young Bolsheviks, and they brought everything that symbolizes the arrogance of power. And they're still relatively young, and they haven't even tasted the power relatively yet. So let's be sure, and I'm telling all the people who can't follow me right now, but I'll send them the information that if the pirát ever sit in the government, it'll be like February 1948. They're gonna set up a gulag here. We'll all have 5G wifi in it, but no one else will ever get to power. Because that's what's gonna happen. It will turn out to be the Bolshevik gulag that will be introduced here by those who already tasted the power so perfectly that they couldn't forgive all the excesses they've committed. [[Time!]] I'm afraid that's what's gonna happen to the republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u180	Now a factual point - Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and will be prepared for Mr Martin Kupka's point of view. Please, you have the floor, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u181	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to respond to my colleague Feranc, who was asking about when we called for tightening up. So in September before the regional elections, we convened a press conference where we asked the government to finally start dealing with the situation, that it was out of control. That's exactly what we did. I'm sorry you didn't notice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u182	Once again, Mr Lubomír Volný is on the verdict. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u183	Look, I'm not here to defend Andrej Babiš against the pirát, because, of course, he's planning the exact same future for this country. Just a little bit slower and, as far as possible, if you can call it, the controlled genocide, more humane. But what could possibly be planned by someone who studied at a school that was directly paid to the Open Society Fund, founded by an American investor and philanthropist George Soros, studied two years in the UK? So who do you think a man like that is gonna work for? For the Czech nation? For the Czech Republic? For the future of you and your children? Well, he's gonna work for the guy who paid for the two years of his studies and allowed him to perform here. That's just the way it is. [[21.00 hours]] However, as far as the shared economy and shared households and shared everything are concerned, we are, of course, led by YES. And it doesn't matter if someone calls the Euro Commissioner a MEP. It's about who she's nominated for, who she's kicking for. And they're both just there for yes. And instead of somehow calling them on the rug and not giving them another chance, you sent them there for the next term because it's working for you. And that, unfortunately, is the charm of politics, that it doesn't matter what the young Bolsheviks are planning here, it doesn't matter what kind of real Europolitics you're promoting, it doesn't matter where it's really going. The only thing that matters is the media image. And the important thing is that you're just gonna be here, you're gonna be here in the house, you're gonna have a good feeling that they're coming to you, and they're calling you, Mr. Ambassador, and you're gonna have all the benefits that have to do with it. But in fact, you guys are all shaky about going this way, because in this way people can be beautifully controlled, in this way you can be beautifully stolen, in this way you'll be absolutely impunity, just as they were impunity for every totalitarian thing in the past until some moment when someone else and more powerful decided to drop the totalitarianism, as they did in our country on November 17, 1989.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u184	Good evening. The President Ivan Bartoš will make a point of fact. Yes, and we're gonna clean up, disinfecting the pitch. [[Loud remarks from the diaper.]] Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u185	I koukat that the excited atmosphere probably related to hockey is reflected in the House meeting, so some Members here are already shouting at people who are going to the counter. I may have wanted to follow up briefly on my colleague Michálek and perhaps react indirectly to what Mr Volný is doing here. Jakub Michálek here was talking about how he's spreading from the prime minister's position to misinformation and literally bullshit, and listening to Mr. Volný, it feels like a chain misinformation e-mail to me. I am convinced that we are talking here about the trust of this government, in this government there is YES, the ČSSD, supported by the Communists. I guess that's what the debate should be about. I don't want to limit you to your factual points, I just don't think you should be dealing with bullshit here. And if you're right, or the rest of the House, in any matter of mutual decency, that's probably gonna give them a chance to decide in the election. After all, you're trying, and I think that your problem that you obviously have is going to be solved very easily.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u186	Thank you. A point of fact - Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u187	It's quite simple. Your MP here came up with a priority right and didn't talk about it, so I'm talking about what he was talking about. My tech's heading towards what he was talking about. And he lied here. He lied here because he said that you pirát who do it all over the world, wherever you get to power, you won't tax people, you won't raise the state apparatus, you won't restrict people to their rights, you won't censor and you won't steal their life's work and you won't support people who decide to parasite on society. But you're in that position. You're in a position to pretend to be humanities, something that's actually totally anti-human, even to those you want to help. You want to help addicts use their drugs in a dignified environment. That's amazing. And that's why in the United States, in many states, taxes are so high because people like you took over, and they want to give those drug addicts the luxury of a normal life at all costs. And exactly what you're saying here that you're not going to do, your colleagues are doing. Your colleagues in the United States, the pirát and Antifa, who you are an active member, are killing people on the streets, burning cars, shooting machine guns, and killing anyone who has a different opinion. This is exactly what happened in the United States during the U.S. President's election campaign. People like you, Mr. Bartoš, in masks, cowards, because you're a coward, with baseball bats with -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u188	It is necessary to address the middlemen of the President, Mr Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u189	- with skateboards and other guns killing people, just like you do the first chance you get.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u190	Time's up. I merely remind you that you really must address it through the President under the Rules of Procedure. Mr Jiří Běhounek, but before that, Mr Jiří Běhounek, please bear with me a little longer, we will again implement sanitary measures. [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Mr Jiří Běhounek, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u191	Good evening, everyone. Thank you, Mr President. And can I ask you a question? How does this exchange of views relate to the motion for distrust to the government of the Czech Republic?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u192	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová, then President Marian Jurečka - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u193	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly. Given the fantasies that Mr. Volný is spreading around here, it seems like he's got a pretty sad life, and if there's anything, in addition to denying the lies, he might also need a hug.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u194	President Marian Jurečka, Mrs Věra Kovářová will be prepared - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u195	I think that this debate in the House, whoever's elected as MP here, gets into the House by elevator to anyone, has some rules, and it's supposed to have a minimum level. And what my colleague Volný is doing here - I would like to ask the House's leadership and members of the mandate and immunity committee to do what was said here just a moment ago in terms of the charges against President Ivan Bartoš that this be discussed on the mandate and immunity committee, because I do not consider this normal. It just doesn't belong here. If anyone's a redneck, let them act like a redneck, but outside this Chamber of Deputies meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u196	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared - factual remarks continue. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u197	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to everyone that I am not on the subject. I would like to address my fellow Member Volný through Mr President. I was about to do it on Friday, unfortunately it didn't come to that. So, my dear fellow, unrespected. It's like this. What you brought here to the House is as follows. You're confusing the Chamber of Deputies with the pub. You're confusing the Chamber of Deputies with the tabloids. You threaten not to wear a drape with your colleague all other Members, which is outrageous, especially to health! What the pirát have brought is at least that they can behave, that they have some moral values, and I am talking, I think, about all the Members. And I'm sorry about what I'm about to say. Mr. Ambassador, you're a mess to me! You're just human manure to me! And I think, I say this with full knowledge of this strong statement, and I say it with full knowledge that I am not alone in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u198	Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u199	I think this House where it's always been drinking, drinking and drinking will be, and I've also seen you affected and fairly well, my colleague -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u200	Mr. Ambassador.....in my opinion, you're crossing... [[Lubomír Free: So she is already the pub.]] [[Member Lubomír Free: You did not warn the Member.]] ..the limits of decency... [[Member Lubomír Free: You did not warn the Member.]] ...and I am warning you in accordance with § 59 para. Four, I'm calling you to order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u201	So you didn't warn the lady, that's clearly discriminatory. Anyway, the point is, there's always been a drink here, there must have been a ban on drinking at the beginning of this term, and we all know that you've been drinking in your offices, so say here that I'm making it a pub, so it's kind of rude. You systematically resist alcohol tests, systematically resist drug tests, so your constituents don't know which one of you goes to work under the influence of alcohol and drugs. So that's about it. As far as political culture is concerned here in this House, it's only false. However, to get back to the question as to how it relates. It doesn't have anything to do with anything. Two things happened here. Here is where the pirate, through the President, made his election meeting here because he abused his right to priority rights. That's one thing that's happened. He just took advantage of the priority right, and he was doing an ad for the Pirate Party, and you can't stop him because he has the priority right. I am so glad that the people who are watching our live stream now, which is now resting all over Facebook, see it in practice as it is. That somebody's just gonna stand there, and they're putting their ads on their side with priority rights. That's one thing. That he's lying about it, that's normal. And then you all voted that one single MP would only speak twice 15 minutes because you're cowards. Because you're cowards. And in that case, I have no reason to spare any of you who voted in favour of it, in any way, because you're disrespectful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u202	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Again, I beg you to modify the pitch. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] The President of Vít Rakušan will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u203	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I actually swore that I would not enter into this panoptical debate, which Mr Volný has begun here, but I had a muted television, but yet, my colleague, when you say here, must stand up for my fellow Member from the Věra Kovářová MP. Until then, I wouldn't comment on Mr. Volný's outrageous remarks, because I think of him as a person who lives in another parallel reality, trying to attack to inspire fear and all sorts of other instincts in society, no matter what he does. He's been threatening us here for a long time, acting the way he's been acting. But, Mr Volný, through Mr President, do not put a colleague in your mouth, a woman from our parliamentary club. To insult a woman is beyond the brink of not only decent manners and how one should behave in the Chamber of Deputies, but it turns out that the person who doesn't have the manners is acting like a coward and rubbing himself against a woman here is you, Mr Volný. No one else. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u204	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u205	I stand for equality and am not a sexist, unlike you, my colleague, through Mr President. So it's equal to rights for me. And when a woman enters the ring, she's just a fighter, and in that case, she has to be prepared to face exactly the same consequences as any other fighter. Either she's a lioness and an eagle, or she'll just come in, stab her cowardly, run off and hide behind her own femininity. That just doesn't apply to me because I'm not a sexist, you know? And you're a sexist. In fact, you have now brutally humiliated your colleague, you have offended her, you have referred to her as someone less valuable, who is unable to defend himself against criticism from a man. That's disgusting. How can you think you're a liberal democrat? You shouldn't say such words about her inferiority compared to me at all. Shame on you! And the only thing I can say to a fellow pirate is that we are now circling the Republic and I am the hugs from different ladies, ladies, women had a few thousand, so I'm loaded with energy, and if you need one, I'm ready to hug you for free.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u206	Mr. Jan Bartošek will perform now, but once again, after we have done the treatment of the speaker's desk, the President will speak with a factual remark. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Bartošek to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u207	Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask all of you, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to fill the point that we have started today. This is a motion for distrust. The vote will somehow come to an end. Try to think of it as asking all of you, because the contributions just add oil to the fire, it doesn't have a real solution, it's not about discussion, it's about mutual insults. What's happening here is not a discussion, it's just an attack against each other. Let's finish this and preserve the Chamber of Deputies' dignity. This behavior does not belong in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u208	Thank you. There is no further factual point, Mr Lubomír Volný is next in the general debate, recalling the decision of the Chamber of Deputies to limit speaking time to twice 15 minutes. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u209	I am, in essence, grateful to the Chamber of Deputies for this decision. Stanjura's colleague only wanted $10,000 for it, so I'll give it to him later. And I think for the $10,000, that's a good commercial, that, in essence, I'm going to be the only MP here today, limited in time. Let's cut to the chase. My colleague Marian Bojko has already said for Free Block what our position will be or what our procedure will be. Our procedure will be that we will not participate in this clown shop, which we participate in involuntarily, in the vote for several reasons that I will now state. We never gave this government confidence, announced it, and one of the main reasons was that it was not just the government YES. As much as I am a critic of YES, I never wanted to add to the cheap anti-babishism with various nest storks and the abuse of his family to political goals. That was foreign to me and, in essence, I was ashamed of that part of the Chamber of Deputies here on this side, which did not hesitate to abuse the Prime Minister's child's illness for political purposes. [[shows the right]] That was really disgusting, it was disgusting, and it was reprehensible, primitive behavior when someone systematically abused the child's mental illness against his father. That is why Marian and I, when we were originally in the SPD, or as non-members, have never joined such cheap attacks on Mr Babiš, and we have always focused on corrupt ČSSD, a government party that long ago, let us remember, at least four, maybe five years ago, has no right to exist. If it wasn't for the judicial mafia in the Czech Republic, the Czech Social Democratic Party is already in execution, bankruptcy and no longer exists. Let us remember that she owed a quarter of a billion to Mr Altner, who, as soon as he won his dispute and the money was to be paid under all the laws of this country and was not paid, he passed away. I think that, unfortunately, this has not been adequately addressed by law enforcement authorities. [[21.20 hours]] And what followed by the government's ČSSD was again classic hyenism, which is comparable to how you attacked Mr. Babiš's children. Yes, really, ew, ew. So, for a change, the CSSD here immediately tried to twist Mr. Altner's heir and came to them with an incredibly rude offer. As this dispute is going on to this day, we do not know practically because the Mafia and the Mafia of ČSSD are so intertwined in every possible corner that probably none of you have heard of Mr Altner and his heirs either or forgot to remind the Czech Social Democratic Party of what is happening. And I really don't know. Maybe I'll find out there's been some sort of settlement because I just didn't notice it in the media. So the media is either silent and secretive, or something's happening, and it's been happening for the fifth year. And because the ČSSD includes people like Mr. Hamáček, who have already demonstrated in the past that the word morality means nothing to them, we have always been very critical of that government and have never expressed our confidence in it. However, it's a beautiful rule, it's said here several times, when... the boom period, and when you're still borrowing, you can really easily make people think that they can live on a higher standard of living than they really do. Because paying your electoral groups money off debts, many billions, actually means you're lying to these people the same way the pirát are lying about not putting up gulags here. They will. And those people who were getting the money today, whether they were civil servants or, unfortunately, even seniors who were so abused by Mr. Babiš, they're just gonna have to pay their children and their children's children's children. That's the way it was. It was always logical, but of course, because there is censorship that is mass. And really journalists in 99 percent of cases just write for money, they also have mortgages, so this information is very hard to get to people. And then came the covid. And along with the covid, there was a chance of real criticism, but a real criticism of government measures and real criticism of what the government is doing wrong. Because a lot of people started dying here. And instead of giving up some real criticism, everyone here seemed to agree, and all of a sudden, things were just practically irrelevant. Whether or not the replacement's gonna be like this. If this group gets this, or if these people get this. And common sense slipped out of it, both in the government and in the opposition. And we non-attached Members and ordinary citizens of the Czech Republic have wondered how this was possible. Why it's so wrong, why it just doesn't work. And that the government is doing it wrong. Okay, but why is the opposition so toothless? The opposition is so toothless, it hasn't used any means at its disposal to corner the government. What's interesting is that you know how to do it for an ordinary MP, here to bring up this Rules of Procedure and use it very quickly. [[shows]] You can even pull these Rules out and use them very quickly when you need to block the Czech Television Council's permission. You're able to find out at the same time that you can take a 12-hour break. This is able to find out at once that you can take turns here, even if it reduces your time to twice 15 minutes or twice 10 minutes, that the whole club can take turns here. And then they can tell you how long they want with that priority right. They can say whatever they want, they may not speak at all on the subject, as Mr Michálek does now, through the President. They can talk about whatever they want. Do ads here or read some magazines, books. Or tell us your feelings about hugging. You can do all of this. And this is where we approved a few extensions of emergency conditions. This is where the pandemic law was passed, this is where a lot of things were approved, these were illogical replacements. And you didn't do anything about it. You, the six clubs, are the government that you're about to express distrust, not once pushed into a corner. You haven't done anything to prolong emergency conditions once. There were no emergency situations in the Czech Republic if you wanted to. You pirát, ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN, you've all been involved in begging small and medium-sized businessmen. You all made it possible. And once again, you're completely at peace, because here is volný Lubomír standing alone behind the volný blok. He doesn't have millions behind his back, he doesn't get on TV, he doesn't get on the paper. And you know that because of your piercing resources, you're probably gonna pass that truth somehow. But I'm gonna enjoy every minute I can tell you the truth here. So you're just as responsible as the government is for the things I'm about to read. So let's do this. You're accusing Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojek of threatening you because he doesn't wear drapes. But in countries where no drapes have ever been worn and there have never been any measures, the dead are converted into 10 million, always up to a maximum of 50 percent. It's usually the half that doesn't exist, less than half. We're gonna read it again, you guys lying about us putting you in danger. You're endangering yourself and endangering your surroundings. And it is statistically proven because, as I said last time, the Czech Republic is one group and the control group is Sweden, Ukraine, Belarus. We'll do it again, as the government's measures killed. In the Czech Republic died of covid, with covid - we do not know that either, because the minister of this government revealed the beautiful secret that the victims of the car accident, when PCR were positive, so they led like dead on covid. But 30, 126 people have officially died. In Sweden as of 14 451. Well, those Swedish kids, I repeat, they were normally in school today. No tests, no drapes. They went to the clubs, they went to play hockey, they went swimming, they went to the movies. My parents are in a restaurant or a bar, no restrictions, no drapes. Maybe a coincidence. All right. But on your favorite Ukraine, in the equivalent of 10 million inhabitants, that's about 13,226 people. And there are no measures in Ukraine either. And once again, there was now a multiple blogger of the year that checked it on the spot, Mr. Ladislav Větvička. - Hey, Láďa, hi. Now I suspect he's in some other country somewhere. There are no precautions. Kids go to school, kids go to dances, kids go everywhere. And parents go everywhere. The pubs work, everything works. 13 226, it's not exactly an exact conversion. And Belarus, which has the only difference between Sweden and Ukraine, means that there has never been any campaign on television that has, on the contrary, frightened and frightened those citizens. All of you here defending the respirators, the drapes, and criticizing us, all of you are supporting the awakening of fear in these people, rather than boldly telling them that there are clear studies here that show that people who have had problems or died were dying with a low level of vitamin D, were dying with a low level of vitamin C. Then there are the medications that the ODS colleague here spoke of as meaningless medications, Isoprinosine and Ivermectin. And he was lying here, spreading disinformation that there were no studies on them. Well, there are. Just go to Ivermectin Info. There it is, that's where you'll find it all. These studies exist, and the drug is proven to be helping. And the professor here is lying. Like Isoprinosine, about which we have fought hard battles here with Marian and with Professor Beran, who wanted to keep this government secret. This government YES, the CSSD, but the entire opposition also wanted to keep Isoprinosin from the public. But since it's hard enough at a time when not everyone just wants to participate in this mass murder, this mass crime, we have some data here. And it's official data from the SÚKL. One 400 000 daily doses of Isoprinosin have been sold, which is 212 746 weekly doses. For everyone who's haunting people here - and again, you're scaring people. You scare people. Four cases of adverse events were officially reported at the SÚKL that were related to people who mixed their medications badly. Four. 212 746 weekly treatment doses, four suspected side effects that may have been caused by Isoprinosin. How many people are officially dead for vaccination? Does anyone know? Because no one died on Isoprinosine. [[21.30 hours]] And that's why I interviewed the Prime Minister, who just doesn't go to those interviews, we all know that, and I asked him if he received the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic from companies producing... [[He's looking into his background.]] No, these are tests, so I need to find something else in the material. We've got plenty of time, so it's okay. Dear Member, allow me to comment on your written interview on the Statistical Data of Isoprinosin. - This government and this prime minister, who ordered lawbreakers, ordered laws to be broken in at least 15 cases, including those laws on GDPR, police officers, soldiers, teachers, school directors and employees, because school directors had no right to close those schools on the basis of the government's zero rule. These school directors broke the law, the teachers broke the law, the police broke the law, so - and about GDPR forcing them to break the law even businessmen and entrepreneurs. So this government, which will publicly declare by the mouth of its Minister of Health that they know it is illegal, and they will do so anyway, so this government has refused to give me this information because: however, your proposed procedure would require the disclosure of personal data on the state of health of a significant number of HIS patients, which would further process them in order to produce your required statistics. Similarly, the Institute itself, as a system administrator, is not authorised to further process data in this way. This would result in the processing of personal data contrary to the purpose for which they were collected, that is to ensure electronic prescription and expenditure of medicinal products. Treatment of personal data of a specific category, health data, would constitute a breach of a number of fundamental principles in the processing of personal data. No offense. However, today, when a hygiene worker comes into a garden somewhere, or a police officer, and they want people to know that they've passed a test, they violate the exact same rules because they don't have the legal right to their medical status. And all of a sudden, it doesn't matter. [[President: Fifteen minutes have passed, Mr. Ambassador.]] I'm reporting again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u210	Yes, I'll register your application, but now it's Mr. Martin Kupka's turn. I will just ask the Member once again to wait a little while before we do the disinfectant again. [[Disinfecting the rhetorical counter and microphones.]] Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, Mr Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u211	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I have come to realize here the words of an actor I love very much, Jan Werich, who once said on the subject of stupidity that the worst collision in life is a collision with an asshole, because you will never convict an asshole from stupidity. That is why, in the end, I abstained from making all the factual remarks so that I would not only make further breakthroughs in what Jan Werich described. But back to the subject we've been talking about all morning. Why this government doesn't have my trust. Because it's the government of national decay. Because it's the government of national scarf, or "hey, guys." Because it's a government of demented satire. And finally, because it is the government of Miloš Zeman and the communists. I'll do the individual points. Why it is a government of national decay, that is what colleagues have been coming all day to talk about, and they have made concrete, clear arguments about how the government has contributed to the fact that the Czech Republic is currently in a really uninhibited situation with the greatest debt and at the same time with dysfunctional laws and a crippled apparatus. Why it's the government of national scarf. Well, for example, because it turns out that the government has always been, it is and will be the first thing that shows up on the outside: marketing, that the key things we learn from Sunday's Hey, people on Facebook, that many steps have affected not whether they are right, but whether they will be well written about and whether they will look good on Facebook and Instagram photos. Why it's a government of demented satire. Well, unfortunately, we all tried that in many measures that didn't make sense, it wasn't logical, so maybe at the end of the year we could buy coffee, but we couldn't drink it at the window. Then we couldn't use the lifts until May. And now the discotheques have finally opened, but they can't be danced in. Those are actually simple things. We have experienced far more serious misconceptions when everyone who feeds on satire said: so now we don't have a job here, you can't face it anymore, you can't beat it. Why it's the government of Miloš Zeman and the communists. Well, when it turns out that the Communists will hold the government again in the morning, they just proved that it was Andrej Babiš and this government that gave the communists so much weight and in regular cycles had to come to ask the Communists if it could continue and what it would look like. And, of course, none of us have seen any of us in all these meetings. She must have been very exciting. Why it's Miloš Zeman's government. Because Miloš Zeman only lets her go where he wants, and after all, many of the members of that government are primarily Miloš Zeman's ministers. Why don't I put my trust in this government, express my distrust? Well, because I just think it's important. I can't, and I can't wave at all the things we've been talking about today with my hand. And I think it's important that the House doesn't do it, because if the government has caused something, then unfortunately, it is also the fall of the authority of government in the Czech Republic. They say politicians are the worst when people start laughing at them. I think that a number of those steps and gestures, the exchange of ministers, the comments on the exchanges, the misconceptions that were taking place, were exactly mocking, the legitimate mockery, and they led to the fact that almost no one believes that government in the Czech public anymore. I believe that the government must rely on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. And that's one of the key principles. If we resign, next time we can bear that anyone will rule here, and no one will actually be allowed to ask what the Chamber of Deputies is saying, because there will always be some reason why it is impossible to express now why it would mean destabilization. But the one who brought destabilization to the Czech Republic is this government. These are all the reasons why I will vote for distrust today. And I consider this important not only as a signal, but also as a clear political step for defending fundamental political and democratic principles.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u212	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček is next and Mr Lubomír Volný is also registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u213	Thank you very much. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to set the record straight with some of the nonsense and lies that have been said here in the morning about several economic terms, dates, reflections. Nonsense number one is that the Prime Minister bragged about how his government was doing great, improving, reducing debt, and we have a great state of public finances. It's a lie, it's nonsense. And I'm not surprised the government's been lying here all day because nothing but lies can gain their trust here. Public debt to gross domestic product, i.e. debt, did not reduce Andrej Babiš's government. This share decreased the increasing volume of gross domestic product. Because the economy was going well in that precocid era, it was growing at a fairly decent rate, so the base, the gross domestic product, grew. It wasn't that Andrej Babiš was doing a great job, and that he would cut the expenses, cut the debt. No. Only the gross domestic product helped the debt ratio indicator gradually decrease. Public finances aren't healthy. They're only healthy at first sight. Because the government has gained and taken over public finances from its predecessors, government debt at a low level, it can still brag about it. [[21.40 hours]] And when we look at the trend that the government has set, the fact that the spending side of the budget has completely separated from the country's economic development, we find that the trend that will grow every year on the Czech Republic's debt is one of the highest ever within the European Union. This government has planned such crazy management over the coming years that we will become in that trend, in that rise in public debt, record-makers in the European Union. After all, when you look at the data and analyses of the OECD, the European Commission, so if long-term sustainability of public finances is measured, not the current static view of one debt indicator against the gross domestic product, we are once again finding that we are almost the worst in the whole of the European Union. This is because our public finances are prone to demographic change. And we are all well aware of the demographic trend that awaits the Czech Republic. Public finances of the Czech Republic are not prepared, or the pension and health system is not prepared for the demographic trend that awaits the Czech Republic, and this coalition government has done nothing about it in eight years. She didn't do anything about the penny, she didn't do anything about the stability of the health system, or to ensure that it is sustainable even in the coming years, when our population will age and when logically the cost of the health system will be higher. It is not only the huge deficits with which Minister Schillerová is coming and is planning them for the coming year, when the costs associated with the covid will no longer be so great. It is simply proof that public finances have become part of this government's election campaign, when they will want to bribe some of their voters for taxpayers' money. The financial market is punishing the government's inability to manage reasonably. When you look at how interest on government bonds has developed since the beginning of the year, you will find that once again our country is a record player in the increase in interest on which our state borrows. From 1.2 to 1.9 since the beginning of the year, we have reached the ten-year government bond. These are figures, but in reality this means more than CZK 10 billion in the state budget, which we will only have to pay for the government's debt service because this government is unable to save a penny and come up with some sensible consolidation plan after a complete disruption in public finances. Public finances are in complete disarray, the Minister is doing nothing, he's planning more and more deficits, and we're going to pay it by spending money on roads, highways, schools, kindergartens, so we're going to pay more government debt. If only the money were to be used to support the entrepreneurs who took the covid the most. I mean, especially small and medium-sized businessmen who were thrown overboard by the government. Ask them how much they got from the state of support for being shut down by the government and making it impossible for them to do business and livelihood. When you ask them, they tell you: we got about 30 percent of what those restrictions cost us, and the government didn't send us until three months later. You can all guess what it is for a small businessman who doesn't have reserves, that the government will send him money with a three-month delay. But to Agrofert, there are subsidies every day. But businessmen who actually fall on their mouths were locked up, and we're actually putting their families at risk, so the government sent them money this late. The tradesmen were a target for the government long before the covid. It is therefore not surprising that the government threw them overboard during the covid. We all remember how, with Andrej Babiš joining politics, they became a live target for the ANO movement. We all remember the rhetoric of thieves stealing from our state budget, and how it takes 24 hours online to monitor them through the EET. The only project the government has managed to implement so that it doesn't fall is, ladies and gentlemen, an EET that has entrepreneurs and businessmen to monitor. The fact that the benefit, as the SAO also says in its report, is dramatically small in relation to what EET cost, doesn't matter. In short, Agrofert succeeded, subsidies went well. However, businessmen were rather besieged and disposed of by the financial office. Let us remember how many times on the Committee on Budgets we have dealt with companies that have wrongly liquidated the Financial Administration. What happened to the Director of Financial Administration? He got a newsstand at the headquarters in České Budějovice. So did the effort of Andrej Babiš, who promised the voters that he would stop trading. Today we have - we were supposed to have - a trade fair for today's Minister of Health in Finland, we have a trade fair for the former Minister of Defence in Israel, and we could continue this way. The government couldn't do anything to help this country. Do you see any of the speedways that Andrej Babiš promised or dreamed of while he was sleeping? See those miles of highways? Seven and eleven kilometers will thus be built annually in the Czech Republic. Look at Poland, how they built highways. That's in a whole different order. Ladies and gentlemen, this government is harming the Czech Republic. Every day the government will rule is wrong for the Czech Republic. If we end this chaos and its suffering as quickly as possible, we will help not only this government, but above all this country. This government doesn't have my trust. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u214	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný is now registered, who is also enrolled in the debate. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u215	Through Mr President to my two previous speakers and to the audience. Now we're gonna explain what happened here. Here's where it happened that, so that Lubomír Volný wasn't the only one who was limited in time, so Mr Stanjura, who failed his plan to go home early, instructed his two fellow partyers to sign up for the debate so I couldn't say that I was the only one anywhere. However, the deep and intelligent voters will understand that this proposal was issued when I was the last. Well, the rest of you who believe the lies that Jan Skopeček has told through the President and through here - IHonza sorry - so unfortunately there is nothing to be done, they will probably believe them again. 'Cause you guys bailed on the businessmen. You ditched them. The business you needed to do, you did. You have prevented the Czech Television Council four times, because this is a business that is important to you. And you can arrange that, you can take 12 hours off. You can do that, you can do everything. But to stand up for the tradesmen and make them here in this House, here in this government that murdered your businessmen economically, and you've made their lives a living hell, you'd better talk to them again at that little shop. So the briefcase, that's just the way it is. You've co-murdered - along with this whole pseudoposition with the pirát - you've co-murdered all those businessmen. It's your fault and their economics and other blood is on your hands. And, Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President, do not prolong this. I originally had it for 45 minutes, and you made it into an hour and a half fun. But it's up to you. Do whatever you want. I've got plenty of time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u216	Well, Mr. Ambassador, you're the only one enrolled in the debate. No one's even checking in with priority rights. This means that you now have the opportunity to perform with your second performance of 15 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u217	We'll pick up where we left off. I mean that the government of this republic, which, in cooperation with the opposition - because it has never actively prevented it - refuses to publish data on how effective Isoprinosine is. There may be no study here anymore, because we have the data, it's available. The government, which ordered them to break the laws of even GDPR police officers, soldiers, teachers, school directors, employers, forced them to break the laws of GDPR, now the health workers, and constantly forcing police officers to break the laws, so she rushed the GDPR. [[21.50 hours]] That's why I kind of sent these data to the world. And from the people of the UHIS and from the SÚKL, the Institute of Health Information and Services and the State Institute of Drug Control, came first of all official information, I already told you. So when Professor Beran and the Free Block were popularized, who was the only one who allowed Professor Beran to perform in the House, the only one who took Professor Beran to a press conference - neither SPD nor KSČM did it, no one who would curse at times, only the Free Block did it, only Lubomír Volný and only Marian Bojko did it - so when we popularized him, instead of importing from Poland he sold 1,400,000 daily doses and 212 746 weekly medical packs. inu, even the SÚKL and the ÚZIS are full of people who don't want to murder people in this republic anymore as members of the Covido Mafia government and opposition. And we have data. During April 2020 to January 2021, 212 856 recipes - recipes - were published on Isoprinosine. These recipes were issued to 184,375 patients according to leaked data. The difference in number is simple. Someone had prescribed more packing. The number of 184,375 specific persons is therefore important for the analysis. Of the 184 375 patients who received Isoprinosine, according to data from UHIS leaked 147 620, they had a positive PCR test for COVID-19. Of the 147 620 patients according to IHIS and SÚKL data, who were positive for COVID-19 and also took Isoprinosine, 8 863 ended up in the hospital. That's about 6 percent of these positives. The number of deceased - out of 184 375 patients taking Isoprinosine in April 2020 to January 2021, 833 died in this period, about 0.5 percent of the group of users of Isoprinosine in 2020. This data clearly indicates that those using Isoprinosine were three to four times more likely to survive. Isoprinosine was to be studied, a nationwide study was to be made. And the mob that calls itself the government, and the mob that now sits in the entire House, systematically prevented it. And you didn't ask, dear colleagues, you didn't ask, you didn't ask. You didn't care that these people were dying. And you like most of the time, you in the opposition that these people died because you think you have a media stick on the government. You do. You're gonna be in the media, and you're gonna be telling those people. But you have their blood on your hands, too. Let's move on. What do we do for testing? The government rejected cheap tests from the Czech Republic, according to biologist Flegr. Babiš and Prymula fight back. I beg you, it's Radio. So it's just not something anyone could judge. And there's Mr. Prymula's official statement. Further addition to Mr Žďárský and his uncertified tests: unfortunately, he is not telling the truth. The quality of his tests was not convinced by the extensive panel of experts, which was called to the Ministry, and he did not respect the recommendations of the next procedure. And again, well, Prymula added that from the panel of experts, which took place at the Ministry of Health on 23 June, there was a record. [[Flicks his evidence]] Žďárský admitted that he was on the panel, but refused to deal with the field testing on COVID-19. He was supposed to present tests for cystic fibrosis at the meeting. There was no talk of covid in that sense at the meeting. I was wondering if any of you heard that footage from Mr. Prymula. However, it does not matter. The point is, according to Mr Prymula, the former Minister of Health of this government, these tests were not accepted because they were not certified. That is why this interpellation has arisen to the Prime Minister. [[He reads.]] To your question whether the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic received from companies producing tests by testing our children in schools, appropriate licenses on the eligibility of companies for the production of medical and diagnostic material, respectively. medical needs, i.e. a certificate of testing sticks, information on possible adverse effects of test bars and a valid insurance policy of the company that produced the test bars in the Czech Republic, including the amount of compensation, if the application of the test results in damage to the health of the tested ones, I state the following: the Ministry did not receive or receive such documents from the companies producing the tests, there is no regulation that would impose such an obligation on them. - pan Prymula, Minister of Health of the Government of the YES as a typical participant in this mafia-covid conspiracy, lied when he refused PCR tests, non-invasive PCR tests of the Czech inventor, and instead ordered aggressive PCR tests and aggressive tests, now I can't remember the name, from China. [[A clue from the O.R.]] Antigenic, thank you. [[Noise in the hall.]] To your question whether the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic has received confirmation of the quality of the above mentioned tests by the appropriate certification authority with the right of competence in the Czech Republic and the EU, I state the following - please answer Babiš: Not received. - The tests we're officially using to test our children have received no certification, because if such a... Mr President, please, I need to disband this discussion group here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u218	Ladies and gentlemen, please rest, so that each Member may have the same right to speak and the same conditions. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u219	- it has not received, since if such medical devices existed on the EU market, there would not be a need for the Ministry of Health to address their availability on the market in the form of a decision to authorise the placing on the market of funds for which the procedure under Section 4 (1) has not been implemented. 1 to 4 of Government Regulation No 56/2015 Sb. and the use of which is in the interest of health protection. In addition, I note that the Ministry has always assessed the technical documentation supported by the applicant for authorisation to place an antigen test on the market for the use of a lay person - a lay person - according to which it has been verified that antigen tests meet the essential requirements for in vitro diagnostic devices. - In other words, we refused, this Mafia government rejected Czech antigen tests for a few crowns to buy overpriced Chinese tests for which the Prime Minister's official statement has no certification whatsoever. And it's not the first time I've talked about it. And why do I say that? Because you're sitting here on the right, and you're in opposition and you're criticizing the government, so besides letting your constituents starve to death, you didn't stand up for our kids, and you let millions of kids be abused by tests that were on the ground somewhere in India or somewhere, and then they changed around here somewhere. And you knew because I told you. And now it's official. Free Block - Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojko were right. And he had to admit it to the Prime Minister of this country, whom you're supposed to call off. And you knew it from me. And your duty was to verify it and see if it was true. And you didn't do it because of the briefcases. Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic - certificate of quality of test sticks. The quality certificate is not issued for test sticks. - So our kids could really be poked in the nose, I don't know, with a match or anything, because the Department of Health doesn't care what our kids are tested for. [[2.00 hours]] Information about test bar manufacturers. Manufacturer information is required to appear on the packaging of each test set in question. - We've been dealing with drug falsifying. We created a system to forge drugs so that not a single box of fake drugs could be sold here. And something that's been sticking up our kids' noses for all of you, can be made by anyone at any time, and all that cares about the Ministry of Health - that's their official answer - the only thing that cares about the Ministry of Health is what's printed on that box at a time when everything is being faked. And it didn't bother you again - ODS, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, all the honest and better people here who are upset that I'm a redneck. Well, you guys bailed on your constituents and bailed on their kids. And you lied to them about being Christians. License of the manufacturer of test sticks - listen, because your children have been tested here by this. Manufacturers of test sticks shall not be obliged to document any form of licence to the administrative authorities. - That's what all of you, government and opposition MPs, signed on to. You all knew, we told you around here, and you laughed at us. You're all responsible. Well, you too, colleague... Let's move on. What else do we have here... That the government was implementing restrictions based on some kind of emotion, we all know that. Because I've only got two minutes to 53, so I can't read all these pages, when the government 15 times in a row, maybe 16 times today, knew it was breaking the laws of this country. This government illegally closed elementary schools with the help of the opposition. The fact that this government spread misinformation is true, because when this government wanted to scare people, even Minister Blatný, one of the many former health ministers, said that the patients were lying in the corridors of hospitals. Let's remember that. It wasn't true. Now that I'm being accused of threatening my colleagues here today, I would like to remind the ODS members of their lunch today, where six of them sat at one table without a drape, and I would like to remind myself of the health committee where they didn't follow - you were there at six - where they didn't follow the two-meter spacing. Well, let's remember, because you're all in on it, and you're just hypocritically saying that you're following something, that Prime Minister Babiš was just with a guy who has covid, and yet he didn't go into quarantine. Muffled information from Mrs. - I'll read it exactly, because I've got it here somewhere - Mrs. docent doktor Irena Koutná, ., that memory immunity protects at least a year after losing the covid, these are the things that she researched, it didn't shoot so much, because here everyone has to be vaccinated. Well, we're not gonna work with the antibodies, we're not gonna work with the immunity idol. I'm not gonna be able to do any more. However, 22. 6. I was led by the House, directly by Mr Vondráček, the interview I have recorded, promised a hearing of a petition of the Health Forum with the participation of petents of letters of doctors to the government, politicians and Parliament. And I'll give you all 22. 6. I invite you to this hearing because there will be all the things you have forbidden me to say today. That's where it sounds. And it either sounds live on Czech TV, or it sounds at the biggest streaming festival in the public. And if the President of the House, Mr. Vondráček, lied to me and that was hearing 22. The 6th will not be public, so get ready for not having a parliamentary holiday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u220	Mr Lubomír Zaorálek will now speak with a factual remark. [[He's not interested in getting off.]] Well, that's a mistake, this login. This is how the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. [[It's coming in, disinfectant!]] Sorry, thank you for the heads-up. I'm begging for disinfectant. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] I will use this time to inform you that, following the priority right of Minister Hamáček, Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak in the debate. Now it is Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček's turn, and then Mrs. Kovářová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u221	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not want to delay, but, given what has been said here on the Margo of Social Democracy, I have to say a few sentences, because when someone does not know where to go and the arguments run out, they hit social democracy on the head of Altner. I want to say that social democracy has succeeded with its appeal to the Supreme Court. The material returned to the court of first instance with the legal opinion of the Supreme Court, so the current situation is that social democracy owes nothing to Mr Altner's heirs. And if the Court of First Instance respects the Supreme Court's legal opinion, it is likely that Mr Altner's heirs will owe social democracy because we have paid several tens of millions of his claims for it. So much for the misinformation. And while we're talking about Mr. Volný's speech, I'm just gonna take one more comment on the margo hug. I don't know how many thousands of fans and fans hug Mr. Volný, but I know what happens when Mr. Volný hugs someone. When he and his colleagues invaded Kaufland, Cologne, and security called the police, Mr. Volný was hugging the intervening police officer so intensely that he bruised his hand. So that's what happens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u222	Thank you. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, will be speaking in the debate, the last one to be logged in at the moment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u223	Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to the Prime Minister's opening speech. In it was most often repeated word by me. I've made my point, I've arranged it. From the logic of this, the Prime Minister has come to the impression that he is Prime Minister of the Universe. And I would like to remind the Prime Minister of the logic of this statement what he really did. What did you really do, Prime Minister? You've arranged for health ministers to take turns in hard times of covid. You've arranged for our children to be in distance lessons for the longest time. You have arranged for our country to be most indebted in its modern history. You, too, have arranged for our country to fall into a debt trap. You've also arranged for us to miss your promised highways. You have also arranged for us to lack places in kindergarten and primary schools. You, Prime Minister, have arranged for people to be afraid of the future - hence the savings in the accounts you were talking about. You also almost made sure that the municipalities lost their income - fortunately, only thanks to the Senate and here the Chamber of Deputies lost only part of their income. You also arranged that the regions did not receive compensation for the loss of income from the compensation bonus because you simply do not like the management of Prague. Dear Prime Minister, you have also arranged for your government to have minimal support for citizens at present. And that is why, Prime Minister, I ask you, if you think well of our country, as you say, so please don't do anything else. And in conclusion, allow me to make a comment. They were captains, mayors, policemen, firemen, soldiers, and, above all, first-line paramedics, who really, despite the government, got us out of the worst. It wasn't you, Prime Minister, it wasn't your government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u224	Thank you. And I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I'm done with the debate, but Prime Minister Zbyněk Stanjura reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u225	We are approaching the vote and let me briefly evaluate the thirteen-hour meeting, or eleven-and-a-half, as we had an hour and a half of lunch. If I were to disprove all the lies, manipulations, half-truths and untruths that have been said here, we would be here until the morning. A lot of it was done by my colleagues who performed in front of me, so at least one. Almost always starts Andrej Babiš's self-respect with the question of pensions, today he had an innovative news that behind him the vice premier was waving charts like that. So I have a graph, too. [[He's showing clearly.]] I can't hand it over, it's not entirely fair, so I'll hold him myself. It won't show anything like it couldn't be seen on those charts that the Secretary of Finance waved. So I calculated the figures from the Ministry of Finance and the Czech Statistical Office, as it is with the pensions and what is the ratio of the average pension to the average wage. You could read the numbers. [[It's pointing to the graph again.]] In 2010, the average pension was 42 percent of the average wage. In 2013 the ratio of the average income to the average wage was 44 per cent. And then Andre Babiš joined the government, and after seven years, the average income to the average wage is 4 percent lower than in 2013, 2 percent lower than in 2010. Those are the facts that disprove the propaganda that sounded here this morning with the innovative element of the Vice Prime Minister for the presentation of the wrong numbers. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] It was really touching how MEPs themselves tried to tell us what to do, what to talk about, how to speak, what to say. Thank you very much. We really don't need it. On the other hand, I quite understand that today's debate was held by the primary of the ANO movement and the competition for candidate status. I noticed that many colleagues who failed in their regions were trying to please the boss at the last minute so he could take them up on the candidates. I understand, but save it for the YES meeting. It's much more appropriate. We heard whining about why now, why it wasn't before, why four months before the election, what's plan B. I've heard that question many times, and the answer is very simple. What plan B? Have you read the Constitution? Just once? It's all written there. Constitutional procedure. The Minister of Culture says: why do you call it if you don't have a majority? Well, total logic, we're in opposition because we have a majority. The Minister of Culture and his colleagues called for a vote on trust five times between 2010 and 2013. I forgot. It's been a long time, I understand. So what does the ústava say? At the moment the House gives its distrust to the government, the government will resign, the president will accept it, entrust it with its resignation. On top of that, in a normal democratic society - it is not written there, it is not a guide to the use of an electronic device, but the Constitution - it is assumed that the President will be invited gradually, at once or in parts, that is up to him, representatives of all political parties in the Chamber of Deputies and will seek solutions. One solution, for example, may be that it is four months before the elections, and there will be an agreement that the new majority will not be sought and the government will take over in demise. So what plan B, when the Constitution solved it for us a long time ago? At this point, I could repeat the main arguments why today to voice distrust to the government: broken public finances, ignorance of law, illegal closing of shops, pubs, kindergartens, schools, uncontrolled struggle with pandemics, chaotic aid programs, conflict of interest and so on, and so on, and so on. But I will ask all of us, but also citizens, a simple question: Will you give confidence to the government where Baron Prášil is prime minister? Will you give confidence to the government where the Home Secretary, who deals with security, goes on as Pat and Mat in the Vrbětice case? Will you give confidence to the government where the Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister are in the world of public budgets and the state budget like Alenka in Wonderland? Will you give the Minister to stop traffic and not build the Dukovany nuclear block, who presents himself as Ferda's mravenec, work of all kinds, trust? Where other members of the government are the Minister of Fast Double Clicks, the absent Minister of Defense, the Dumb Bobeš or the Minister of Justice, for whom the Czech proverb applies "shut up gold"? [[entertainment in the hall]] That's how this question stands today. Yes, by law, that's the noble formula: who's in favour of the proposal? Who's against the proposal? Ask yourself a question and honestly answer yourself whether you would like to work in a company where Baron Prášil, deputy for security Pat and Mat, deputy for finances Alenka in Wonderland, business director Ferda mravenec, works of all kinds. And if you answer honestly, you will vote for the proposal as well as we will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u226	Thank you. And with priority rights, Madam President Markéta Pekarová Adamová came forward. [[Dissenting voices from the left side of the hall.]] Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u227	Thank you for the floor. Save your applause till after. Ladies and gentlemen, it is interesting to hear the whole debate and actually keep your speech to the end, because it offers the opportunity to respond to many of the things that are going to be said here, to the self-righteousness that we have witnessed here in the Prime Minister's speech. He was such a juicy cocktail, whining and hurt, as well as an incredible demagogy and a huge amount of lies. For example, one of the main ones has already been disproved in the previous speech as regards the ratio between wages and pensions and its level. It is simply evidenceable facts, as well as a number of other specific things that have been said. After all, let us remember, whether it is from the mouth of any of us from the opposition, as Jana Maláčová thundered at her party's previous convention, that even for Kalousek, the pensions were higher. Remember? And if you don't, I'm sure you'll find it. It's to be traced. So it's not just our words, it's the words of those who are responsible for this state of affairs in this government. But what was definitely not said, and it would be worth telling citizens, even those seniors who are so often remembered by government officials, is how much Agrofert earned on subsidies. It's just worth the attention of how fast this was growing. [[It's showing a graph.]] Since 2011, when the YES movement was established, it has only been established until now. [[22.20 hours]] Let us look at the difference: 2011, a little over 500 million crowns a year, and we are only talking about Czech resources, not European ones. And now we have the year 2019 - this is the last figure I have at my disposal - and behold, CZK 2,000 million, CZK 2 billion. This is a remarkable increase, which I'm sure is worth Andrej Babiš's most lies, which he is able to utter here. You know, it sounds not only here from the counter, but in public space in recent weeks, the question of why even call for a vote of distrust to the government, especially when we are approaching the end of the term. And I am also discussing this with voters, with citizens of the Czech Republic. It's worth talking to and hearing how they see and feel. And that's why I want to tell you who I'm going to say mistrust to the government today, among other things. I will pronounce her as Mrs. Alena, who could not celebrate her son's recent graduation with her husband, the father of their common son, because he is no longer among us because he died at the beginning of this year on covid. I will pronounce it as Mr. Petr, whom I met this week on Monday, and whose 80 - year - old mother is waiting for the vaccine because she only wants to get it from her physician, whom she trusts, and she still hasn't. Yes, she could have been vaccinated for many months now, she's entitled to it. But she simply trusts the person she's been seeing for many years and who knows her health best. And look, the mistress hasn't been in the right state of health, and she's currently in hospital intensive care. There are still stories like that. Let's not feel like we're done. I will pronounce it as Mrs. Barbora, who, after the fifth generation, runs a tailor's shop, a quality business that has many satisfied customers and which now only lasts with the utmost effort, with the investment of every koruna of savings that her entire family has put together with the fact that they already have a house in which they live. And when you talk to her, she really has tears on her shoulders, because what she and her ancestors put into building the company, in a few months of your reign, your government's help that you like to brag about here, that's all for nothing. And she'll tell you what the reality of what she hears at the press conference is. And she'll tell you that she doesn't believe in her own ears when she hears that the government is helping what it can, because the reality of her experience, her life is completely opposite. I'm also going to treat her as Mr. Marek. I know him very well, and I know how it took him to build a thriving business here in the center of Prague, yes, dependent on tourists who haven't been here for over a year, almost at all, but who relied on the words of Minister Havlíček in December, who said here on press releases how 100 percent of the rent will be paid, how the help will really get to everyone and be massive, and then with sadness he watched when he read the conditions of the COVID - Rent program, where only 50 percent was. And then the lies that we've all been perceiving have simply been dealt with by the government as usual: for we said it would be 100%, well, we didn't say it's a 50-year period, and from now on it's a 50-year period, that's a hundred, fifty-plus-fifty is a hundred. And in that spirit, everyone who was waiting for help had to deal not only with the huge anger and anger and at the same time discussing what families would feed them, but also the fact that the neighborhood was telling them: what else would you like, you're already getting all this, this high support from our taxes. Those who didn't get themselves into that situation might have had that impression. And I don't blame them because they weren't in the situation of those who were honestly studying all those programs, the terms, filling out the forms, and now they're shivering so they don't come to see if they've done anything wrong and if they don't return anything. And by five, I will vote for mistrust for the doctor, Mrs Jana, who has served twelve or more services a month in the covido department, who, on the brink of these forces, along with her colleagues, has been saving what you have messed up. And such people who had children at home for distance teaching, children who did not look at schools among their classmates for months, their clubs and activities of interest, which were fat and did not have the opportunity to socialize and the like, and which have the effects that they would bear for many months, maybe even years, so they certainly don't see it as a gesture, as something that is doomed to failure in advance. They want to see who agrees with everything that's been going on here and what's going on. And who's responsible for that? You know, the rules of the game - I know that many of you, when you're smiling like that, are yelling because you can see that even the rules of decent behavior don't tell you anything - with honor in every situation. If I take it in sport - now we have a hockey championship, unfortunately for us it's over today, but still we're definitely happy for the performances of our athletes - I think we all realize that if they didn't play by the rules by the last minute, then we're just not gonna take this as a fair game. And our rules of play, according to which parliamentary democracy works, are laws, and one of them is the Constitution. It clearly states that the power of the government is to go out and lean on the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. And it doesn't matter if it happens two years before the election, one year before the election, one month before the election. It's supposed to be this way all the time. And I want to remind you that even if it does happen today, and we assume that the Communists' benches are empty here, that this will happen - so the government in this test with their ears scratched, because God knows what the calculus has been going on and what hands have been going on here in the last few days and weeks with the Communists, so it is necessary to say that those who are holding it continue to be communists who, just a few weeks ago, had full press conferences, full of mouths in the media and in the public, how they no longer want to have anything to do with this government, how they do not support it and are not part of it. So KSČM left around noon, I hope she didn't just stop, she'll go to North Korea, hers, let them stay there. But if they only left home or at the hostel, they simply did not delete the fact that they supported the government in this way, enabled it to continue to function, enabled Andrea Babiš and his government to do what they had done so far, and they were responsible for it. The only way they can make up for it is if they never come back. But I don't suppose so. For me and for TOP 09 and for those citizens that I could name here, hundreds, thousands, tens of thousands and more, this government has no confidence. He doesn't. Because she just didn't do enough to get it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u228	Thank you. Let's keep going. Now, let me just remind you that pursuant to Paragraph 85 (1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, a motion for distrust is put to the vote by name. [[Gong.]] A majority of all Members must be approved in order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government. I ask now designated verifiers, which are MEPs Jana Černochová and Member Stanislav Berkovec, to take their place at the rapporteur's table, which has already happened, and we will proceed according to Section 74 (4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw the name of the Member from which the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. [[22.30 hours]] [[Mrs Černochová bears the President's names for winning, Vice-President Pikal draws lots.]] I was the first to draw for Mr. Pavel Žáček. I ask all colleagues to settle in their seats and create a calm and dignified atmosphere in the hall. It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be drawn up by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. If we have enough peace in the hall - I do not feel it, I will once again ask all Members to settle in their seats. [[It's ringing for silence in the hall.]] Members are still coming, so I'll wait until we can't keep it quiet. Well, thank you. I ask that each winning Member speak its opinion loudly enough. so that I may repeat them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. Now I will summon you, and I beg you to speak. I recommend that the MP always get up when I speak, and once again I ask for peace in the hall! [[It's ringing again.]] We're really starting to vote, and I'd like to hear it. Thank you and I therefore ask Mr Žáček, who was the first to be drawn to say: For the proposal. We continue in order, as next is Mr Adamec: For the proposal. Thank you. Next up is Mrs Adámková: Against the proposal. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová: Not present. Mr Babiš: Against the proposal. [[Resurrection in the hall, applause.]] Mr Babka: Against the proposal. Mrs Balaštíková: Thank you for your warning. [[Mrs Cernochová points out that the President skipped Ms Babiš.]] Mrs Balaštíková: Against the proposal. Mrs Babišová: Against the proposal. Mrs Balcarová: [[Mrs Černochová informs that it was not understood by Mr Babka.]] Mr Babka, if I am not mistaken, has spoken out against the proposal. Once again, Mrs Balcarová: For the proposal. Mr Bartoň: For a proposal. Mr Bartoš: For a proposal. Mr Bartošek: For a proposal. Mr Bauer: Proposition. Mr Baxa: For a proposal. Mr Běhounek: Against the proposal. [[Very loud, followed by applause.]] Mr Beitl: For a proposal. Mr Bělica: Against the proposal. Mr Bělobrádek: For a proposal. Mr Benda: Proposition. Mr Bendl: For a proposal. Mr Benešík: For a proposal. Mr Berkovec: Against the proposal. Mr Birke: Against the proposal. Member Jiří Bláha: Excused. Mr Stanislav Blaha: For a proposal. Mr Blažek: For a proposal. Mrs Blažková: Against the proposal. Mr. Bojko: He is not in the hall. Mr Brabec: Against the proposal. Mr Brázdil: Against the proposal. Mrs Brzobohatá: Against the proposal. Mr Bžoch: Against the proposal. Mr Černohorský: For a proposal. Mrs Černochová: For the proposal. Mr. Černý: He is not in the hall. Mrs Červíčková: Against the proposal. Mr Čižinský: For a proposal. Mr Dolejš: He is not in the hall. Mr Dolínek: He is not present either. Mrs Dostálová: Against the proposal. Mrs Dražilová: Against the proposal. Mr Dvořák: For a proposal. Mr Elfmark: For a proposal. Mr Faltýnek: Against the proposal. [[Let's hear it.]] Mr Farhan: Against the proposal. Mr Farský: For a proposal. Mr Feranec: Against the proposal. Mr Ferjenčík: For a proposal. Mr Petr Fiala: For a proposal. Mr Radim Fiala: For a proposal. Mrs Fialová: Against the proposal. Mr Filip: He is not present. Mr. Foldyna: Proposition. Mr Fridrich: Against the proposal. Mrs Gajdůšková: Against the proposal. Mr Gazdík: For a proposal. Mrs Golasowská: For the proposal. Mr Grebeníček: He is not present. Mr Grospič: He is not present either. [[2.40 hours]] Mr Hájek: Against the proposal. [[Loud:]] [[Let's hear it.]] Mr Hamáček: Against the proposal. Mr Hanzel: He is not present. Mr Holík: For a proposal. Mr Holomčík: For a proposal. Mr Hoppe: For a proposal. Mr Hrnčíř: For a proposal. Mrs Hyťhová: For the proposal. Mr Chvojka: Against the proposal. Mr Jáč: Against the proposal. Mr Jakob: For a proposal. Mr Janda: Proposition. Mr Janulík: Against the proposal. Mrs Jarošová: For the proposal. Mr Jelínek: For a proposal. Mr Jiránek: For a proposal. Mr Juchelka: Against the proposal. Mr Juránek: For a proposal. Mr Jurečka: For a proposal. Mr Juříček: Against the proposal. Mrs Kalátová: Against the proposal. Mr Kalous: Against the proposal. Mr Kaňkovský: For a proposal. Mr Kasal: Against the proposal. Mr Klaus: Proposition. Mr Kobza: For a proposal. Mr Jiří Kohoutek: For a proposal. Mr Tomáš Kohoutek: Against the proposal. Mr Kolářík: For a proposal. Mr Kolovratník: Against the proposal. Mr Kopřiva: For a proposal. Mrs Kořanová: Against the proposal. Mr Koten: For a proposal. Mr Kott: Against the proposal. Mr Kováčik: He is not present. Mrs Kovářová: For the proposal. Mrs Kozlová: She is not present. Mr králíček: Against the proposal. Mr Krejza: For a proposal. Mrs Krutáková: For the proposal. Mr Kubíček: Against the proposal. Mr Kubík: Against the proposal. Mr Kupka: For a proposal. Mr Kytýr: Against the proposal. Mrs Langšádlová: For the proposal. Mrs Levová: She is not present. Mr Lipavský: For a proposal. Mr Luzar: He is not present. Mrs Majerová: For the proposal. Mrs malý: Against the proposal. Mr Mališ: Against the proposal. Mr Martínek: For a proposal. Mr Martinů: For a proposal. Mrs Maříková: For the proposal. Mr Mašek: Against the proposal. Mrs Matušovská: He is not present. Madam Matyášová: Against the proposal. Mrs Melková: Against the proposal. Mr Mihola: For a proposal. Mr Michálek: For a proposal. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová: Against the proposal. Mr Munzar: For a proposal. Mr Nacher: Against the proposal. Mr navrkat: For a proposal. Mrs Nevludová: For the proposal. Mr Novák: Against the proposal. Mrs Oborná: Against the proposal. Mr Okamura: For a proposal. Mr Okleštěk: Against the proposal. Mr Onderka: Against the proposal. Mr Ondráček: He is not present. Mrs Ožanová: Against the proposal. Mrs Pastuchová: Against the proposal. Mr Pávek: For a proposal. Mr Pawlas: He is not present. Mrs Pekarová Adamová: For the proposal. Mrs Pěnčíková: Not present. Mr Petrtýl: Against the proposal. Mr Pikal: I am in favour of the proposal. Mr. MP... Proposition. I have to do it again. Mr Plzák: Against the proposal. Mr. Mr. Posted: For a proposal. Mr Pojezný: He is not present. Mr Polanský: For a proposal. Mr Pošvář: For a proposal. Mr Pour: Against the proposal. Mr. Pražák: Against the proposal. Mr Profant: Proposition. Mrs Procházková: Against the proposal. Mrs Puntová: Against the proposal. Mr Pustějovskýějovský: Against the proposal. Mr Rais: Against the proposal. Mr. Rakušan: For a proposal. Mr Ratiborský: Against the proposal. Mr Richter: Against the proposal. Mrs Richterová: For the proposal. Mr Rozner: For a proposal. Rozvoral: For a proposal. Mrs Rutová: Against the proposal. Mr Růžička: He is not present. Mr Řehounek: Against the proposal. Mr Sadovský: Against the proposal. Mr Samaš: Against the proposal. Mr Schwarzenberg: Proposition. Mr Sklenák: Against the proposal. Mr Skopeček: For a proposal. Mrs Sommerová: For the proposal. Mr Antonín Staněk: Not present. Mr Pavel Staněk: He is not present either. Mr Stanjura: Proposition. Member Strýček: Against the proposal. Member of Parliament Svoboda: For a proposal. [[2.50 hours]] Mrs Šafránková: For the proposal. Mr šindelář: For a proposal. Mrs Šlechtová: She is not present. Mr Španěl: For the proposal. Mr Špičák: Against the proposal. Mr Štolpa: Against the proposal. Mr Třešňák: For a proposal. Mr Tureček: Against the proposal. Mr Vácha: For a proposal. Mrs Valachová: Against the proposal. Mr Válek: For a proposal. Mr Valenta: He is not present. Mrs Válková: It is not present either. Mr Venhoda: Against the proposal. Mr Veselý: Against the proposal. Mr Vích: For a proposal. Mr Vojtěch: Against the proposal. Mr Jan Volný: Against the proposal. [[Louder. Let's hear it.]] Mr Lubomír Volný: Not present. Mr Vondráček: Against the proposal. Mr Vondrák: He is not present. Mrs Vostrá: Not present. Mr Votava: He is not present either. Mr. Výborný: For a proposal. Mr Jaroslav Vy Vymazal: For the proposal. Mr Tomáš Vy Vymazal: For the proposal. Mr Vyzula: Against the proposal. Member Jan Zahradník: For a proposal. Mr Zaorálek: Against the proposal. Mr Zlesák: Against the proposal. We have already had Mr. Mr. Žáček. So it should all be. I ask whether all Members have been read, or whether there are any doubts about the course of the vote, such as that someone has arrived during the course and has not reached his turn. [[Interrogation off the microphone.]] I voted. And then please the verifiers to tell me what time they need. Ten minutes. In that case, I'm interrupting the House meeting for 10 minutes to 23.03 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, please rest in the hall, we will continue after a solemn pause. Verifiers are already ready, so I'm asking them to report the results.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u230	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Out of 200 Members and Members voted 171, 29 Members and Members were absent. 89 Members and Members have spoken in favour of the proposal. 82 Members and Members have spoken out against the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-03-ps2017-106-01-001-001.u231	Thank you. I therefore note that the Chamber of Deputies has not adopted the motion for a resolution. We have exhausted one point in this meeting. [[Let's hear it for the whole room.]] And I still got a report from Mr. Chairman... No? In that case, I don't have anything else to talk about right now. So thank you all for coming. Thank you to the verifiers, thank you to all those who have endured watching us until now, and this meeting is exhausted, so I'm ending it. We'll meet here tomorrow at 9 o'clock for a full 104th meeting. I wish you a pleasant rest of the night.
