ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u1	365. Government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws /house print 800/ - third reading Before I give the floor with priority rights to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to Andrea Babiš, I will ask the House for peace! We have a law before us at third reading, we will decide on serious matters. So I ask that there be a decent enough atmosphere for discussion. Just a moment, Prime Minister. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u2	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to instruct this Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec, to submit a House press of 800, in accordance with the provisions of Section 93 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for this communication. It's a matter for the government to defend the government's bill. We respect that. I thank the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabco, for taking the position at the rapporteur's table, and I also thank Mr Ratiborský, who represented the rapporteur of the Committee on Defence, Mr Bělica. We will now begin the hearing. I'll wait. If you are discussing topics other than Military Intelligence, please in the foyer! I know that the Senate's return has led many people to think about how to proceed, but I am convinced that a new point needs to be addressed. Thank you. So we are discussing a government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House press 800. I will ask the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec, under the authority of the government we have just heard, to present this press at the third reading. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, let me briefly mention in the third reading this press, a government bill amending the Military Intelligence Act, has been discussed on the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the resulting solutions in the form of amendments are the result of the joint work of all those involved, i.e. both the Ministry of Defence, Military Intelligence and individual representatives across the political spectrum, but also the professional public and the private sector. A significant shift is taking into account the position of the private sector as a partner in dealing with crisis situations. Military intelligence will cooperate directly with those who are already actively involved in protecting the Czech cyberspace. The detection of attacks itself will be carried out exclusively on the basis of pre-defined indicators and coordinated cooperation with other security forces and the private sector. Any interference with cyber attacks will only be made possible to Military Intelligence as an extreme solution to national self-defense if people's lives are threatened, for example because of the decommissioning of an IT system of a hospital or a power plant, and that will only be possible if it cannot be handled differently and it is necessary to act as quickly as possible. However, this will always be a coordinated approach with other elements of the national security system. New activities of Military Intelligence will be subject to control mechanisms to ensure compliance with legal constraints, such as the obligation to keep audit records on the operation of detection tools which will be fully accessible to the control authorities. In addition to internal control, this activity will be subject to a system of so-called three-stage control, namely by the government, the government as a whole may request information, for the second time in Parliament, a permanent commission to control the activities of Military Intelligence, and finally, thirdly, an independent control authority. It is not yet established, but it will be a second stage of parliamentary control. In addition to the above, the function of cyberdefense inspector will be a significant novelty for data management purposes. He will be appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, always after discussion in the Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. This person shall be independent in the performance of his/her duties and shall be bound only by the legal order in his/her decision. Its primary task will be to supervise data protection and information processed by Military Intelligence and related procedures in the performance of cyber defence, including respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. The main objective of the proposal is to be prepared for modern threats and thus prevent possible negative consequences, or to be able to respond adequately to threats that are unfortunately more than real these days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u5	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco for his opening words under the authority of the Government, and I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Ratiborsky, to justify, if necessary, the amendments that are in press 805, to present his report on the committee's discussion. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Guarantee Committee, the Defence Committee, adopted the following resolution at its 41st meeting on 3 February: "Defence Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after the discussion of the Government Bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws, House press number 800, after second reading in the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Chamber of Deputies vote in the third reading on proposals submitted to the draft law according to the House press 800/5 in the following order: First, vote on the proposals pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if presented at third reading. Secondly, Amendment D1 of Mr Kopřiva. Thirdly, Amendment D2 of Mr Kopřiva. In the event of adoption of D2 the proposals A24 and C2, points 5, 6 and 7 become unvoting. Fourthly, Amendment D3 of Mr Kopřiva. Fifth amendment D4 to Mr Kopřiva. In the event of adoption of D4 it becomes unvoting C2, point 4. Sixth amendment D5 to Mr Kopřiva. For the seventh amendment C2, points 1, 2 and 3, the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee. In the event of acceptance of C2 point 3, it shall become unvoting A21. For the eighth amendment C2, paragraph 4, the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, unvoteable if the D4 was adopted. For the ninth amendment C2, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, unvoteable if D2 was adopted. For the tenth amendments A1 to A38, the resolution of the Defence Committee. A21 is non-voting if C2 point 3 is accepted. A24 is non-voting if D2 is accepted. B2 and C1 are non-voting because they are identical to the resolution of the Standing Commission for the Control of Military Intelligence and the Constitutional and Legal Committee. For the 11th time on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I was expecting a different statement, but okay, we'll do it again. I am merely stating that the resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to you as a House press of 800/6. I welcome the Minister of Defence, Lubomír Metnar, among us, and I ask if he wants to add the words of Minister Richard Brabec before the debate is opened. He doesn't want to. So I open the debate and ask for the word of the first enrollment, Pavel Žáček. Radovan Vích will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the military intelligence service who have been communicating with us as representatives of the parliamentary parties, who have patiently explained, or have changed some of the contested provisions and points contained in the draft amendment to the Military Intelligence Act. Although I do not have to fully identify with some opinions, I appreciate and support their professional approach. The attempt to remedy the current unsatisfactory state, i.e. the absence of adequate defence against cyber attacks by state and non-state actors, is very important and crucial mainly for the future, because we will undoubtedly face an increasing number of attacks in cyberspace, including attacks against the elements of our critical infrastructure. Back to the bill amendment itself. A number of things were incorporated into the compromise form of a comprehensive amendment compared to the original draft by mutual agreement. There is general agreement not only across the political spectrum but also within the professional public that the Czech Republic needs this law to strengthen and supplement the security system of the Czech Republic. Under the auspices of the Association of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic together with representatives of associations and associations of ICT Union, CZ.NIC, NIX.CZ, Committee of Independent ICT Industry, Seznam.cz , AFCEA and the representatives of Military Intelligence themselves and the Ministry of Defence created a platform within which the original controversial text was modified. Finally, the bill was fine-tuned so much that the resulting material represents a modern and functional law enabling consistent defence of the Czech Republic in cyberspace. The amendment included, inter alia: - To incorporate less invasive detection options than the proposed placement of its own detection tools by Military Intelligence. A cooperation agreement cannot be agreed on the transmission of metadata to a greater extent than would be accessible to Military Intelligence in the case of the location of its own instruments; - To adjust the possibility of Military Intelligence to require synergies: in specific cases and for the time strictly necessary if it would be necessary to respond without delay and would otherwise be in danger of delay, using the instruments and measures already implemented by the entity; - To adjust the conditions for the operation of its own instruments of detection of Military Intelligence. Their deployment will take place only in the extreme case where it is not possible to provide detection under a cooperation agreement, or the conclusion of such an agreement in a particular case would not be possible. This will also require an important interest in the defence of the State, which means that the location of the detection tools must be crucial to the state's security. Compliance with these conditions will be part of the justification for the administrative decision on their location and will therefore also be the subject of possible degradation. The judicial review in administrative justice should then be a sufficient instrument to control the abuse of this institute. - The detection tools can't be used for active intervention. In the case of the deployment of detection tools by Military Intelligence, it must be strictly passive devices that can only record the legal range of metadata. It takes into account the status of the national CERT and its capabilities, which means Military Intelligence will be able to communicate directly with this entity, which also participates significantly in the protection of Czech cyberspace. - To modify the selection of the person of the cyberdefense inspector. It is intended to be a person appointed by experts outside the structure of Military Intelligence. The work of the inspector may be carried out both in military service and in employment, but will always be included in Military Intelligence. This is essential for the intention to exercise internal control and thus complement external independent control mechanisms. It will be possible to initiate initiatives to the Cyber Defence Inspector, with the conclusions of their assessment in the event of dissatisfaction of those persons with documents on the basis of which they will be able to call for the protection of their rights by judicial means. Last but not least, we are trying to fulfil the intention to establish an independent and expert control of intelligence services made up of trusted, security-tested and respected public bodies, so that we can guarantee deeper control of intelligence activities while protecting fundamental human rights and freedoms. Here, too, we subpoena the government's lack of work and offer it a helping hand in this particular case. Despite all these positive changes that I have said, I must state that it will continue to be necessary to analyse the implementation of this law on a continuous basis, to address potential questions, particularly in relation to the aforementioned protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms and related checks on the activities of Military Intelligence in this new segment of cyber defence. Sooner or later, we will also have to assess whether it was necessary to strengthen the powers of one particular intelligence service so significantly, or whether another model of cyber defense anchor could be chosen as is the case for some of our key allies. Finally, I would like to make a brief comment on the proposals made by my colleague from the Pirate Party. The proposals put forward by Mr Kopřiva go on in a sense, even denying the important criteria for the establishment of an independent control body and interfering with the very principles of the institution, on which emphasis has been placed in the context of a detailed discussion in the preparation of the law in the past. It is a rather startling misunderstanding of the role of Military Intelligence in cyber defence, where the proposed form of the law certainly does not allow for the active intervention of Military Intelligence at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, as one of the amendments would have implied. Of course, I do not know how these amendments are motivated, whether they are ignorance or intention, how to disable the part of this mechanism that we are creating, but in this form they are unacceptable to us, and therefore we cannot support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u9	I thank Mr Pavel Žáček. Before I give the floor to Mr Radovan Vích, I state my apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Prime Minister Andrej Babiš for further work-related reasons. Now a colleague of Radovan Vích. Mr Kopřiva will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u10	Good morning, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, allow me to read the brief opinion of the Freedom and Direct Democracy MP on the amendment to the Government Bill on Military Intelligence. The Government Bill on Military Intelligence entrusts this office with the cyber defence of the Czech Republic. I would like to stress that this proposal is already coming here from the last parliamentary term and that the National Cyber Security Authority has been established in the meantime, but the government has decided that it will be subject to military intelligence. The amendment assumes that Military Intelligence will be placed on public roads, on public communications networks called detection tools. These games on the network in quotation marks may result in, among other things, a blackout of Internet connection for households and companies. Due to the risk of this new military intelligence authority, it is important to check closely. The petitioner suggested creating a control body - an inspector for cyber defense. But he is to be subordinate directly to the Minister of Defence and I just remind you that the Minister of Defence is also subject to Military Intelligence itself. He would decide to use cyber defense or attack by Military Intelligence. In my opinion, this is neither appropriate nor sufficient control. Parliament's control also needs to contain unnecessary restrictions. The amendments to this press, even if they are adopted, only slightly improve this bill. Legislative change, if the law passes, is essential and it is, from our point of view, an intervention of the state in the privacy of citizens. For these reasons, the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement will not support the amendment to this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u11	I thank Mr Radovan Vích. Mr. František Kopřiva, will now prepare Ondřej Profant. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, because, as has already been said, this law has been here for a very long time and has gone through a great, rapid development, I will be somewhat more thorough. I'll take the details of what went down there, what went wrong from the point of view of the Pirate Party, and thank the Minister for finally arriving. It was one of the things that I felt was a shame that this fundamental law wouldn't represent the Secretary of Defense here, but the Minister of the Environment, so I'm glad it finally got better. As my previous speakers have said, it's been here since the last parliamentary term, and some first version came about three years ago, so we've been working on it for the last three years and in cooperation with Military Intelligence. As the Pirate Party, we have also established a working group with representatives of the private sector of operators and various professional associations and non-governmental organisations dealing with the Internet and cybersecurity, cyber defence. [[10.20 hours]] I just want to declare that what I am going to sum up: first I will say what has been corrected in the law, after what has failed from our point of view, and then I will comment on the amendments to both the constitutional and our five. So I am not always comparing the comprehensive amendment to the House press, but also to the previous versions that may have been negotiated there already into the complex or already into the House press. As a fundamental success, we see that we have managed to clearly define what detection devices or probes previously have to actually monitor in internet cables when I say this to the people, in Internet communication, because there was originally the concept of unaddressed data, which could also indicate that it may be about monitoring directly the content of user communication on the Internet. In the end, it was transformed into metadata. There is a nice definition of metadata that guarantees that detection devices will only monitor operation and metadata, not content, which will help Military Intelligence fulfill their task, but at the same time it is a good guarantee that the content of communication of users will not be monitored directly. Another thing is that the model has been changed, when Military Intelligence itself said that it wants to deal with operators, network operators as equal partners, so there has actually been a little rollover of the model, that it will not be there and priori place the detection tool in the first place, but that it will be able to conclude a contract with network operators and will be able to cooperate more as partners. It will not actually be violently integrated into communication networks, which is a much better model when Military Intelligence is a partner for network operators. The comprehensive amendment also contains an exception to confidentiality for network operators. They will now be able to contact the members of the supervisory authorities if they suspect that the Military Intelligence has exceeded its jurisdiction. That's another important insurance policy. The original proposal also contained very non-specific conditions for administrative management with operators in which it would be decided to place the detection tool in the infrastructure of network operators. Among the elements that a decision on the location of the detection instrument would have to contain is the period for which the obligation may be imposed on network operators and the limitation that the decision may impose the location of the detection instrument for 12 months with the possibility of an extension of another 6 months. The decision must also include further elements under the Administrative Rules, which increases the possibility of reviewing such a decision. Furthermore, a comprehensive amendment to incarnate the extension of cover for any damage caused in the performance of cyber defence, including non-property damage, improves the enforcement of possible damage to cyber defence. It's better for network operators again. The original proposal contained relatively high sanctions, which were set for operators at CZK 50 million. During the negotiations it was possible to negotiate a reduction of sanctions in order to actually correspond to the possible seriousness of the infringement, so there is newly proposed for some facts 15 and 5 million crowns. The comprehensive amendment better regulates compensation so that network operators are entitled to all the costs effectively incurred in detection in cyberspace, not just to compensate for the operating costs recorded in the accounts. These are things that have succeeded in embodying into the comprehensive amendment and are certainly steps in the right direction. Unfortunately, from the point of view of the Pirate Party - and that is why we cannot ultimately support the law as a whole despite the comprehensive amendment - it is one thing that the active intervention on which the law stands is the gros of the proposal, and we want Military Intelligence to have greater powers in cyberspace, and we recognise the need for us to defend ourselves in cyberspace as well as in conventional domains. In a comprehensive proposal, there has been a better definition of the boundaries. There are now conditions that the important interests of the state must be threatened to a large extent, the attack lasts or is imminent and cannot be averted otherwise, and they must be met cumulatively. Yet there is a problem that these conditions are insufficient, that they can be filled with a number of or less serious situations. One problem, for example, is that these conditions are more moderate than would have been imposed by international law interpreted in the so-called Taliban manual, which we believe restricts cyber operations more than the proposed proposal. Thus, in our view, there could be situations where, in the national environment, if the attacker's contribution is made, these active interventions could be used, while under the same conditions the same active intervention at international level would be considered to be an act of international aggression contrary to the UN Charter. It's questionable. We respect that Military Intelligence needs this power, but we have imagined even a slightly better definition of active interventions. After all, it is a legislative precedent for the future for Military Intelligence. Indeed, that could still be worked out. What else is problematic? In fact, it was a step backwards because Military Intelligence itself agreed to a better regulation in the law on how to connect the detection device to the network operator. On the contrary, in the Houses of the Press, which came in March last year, there was a provision that the detection device was connected branchally and passed data only one way, which is sufficient for mapping communication flows. This provision also precludes the use of active probes or detection tools, because the active probe would be involved in-line and could theoretically enter the communication directly, such as selectively blocking some communication flows, such as some websites, or impersonating some of the communication participants. And that's really not needed for cyberspace monitoring purposes. Although the proposed proposal excludes the possibility of performing active interventions directly by means of detection devices - and that is correct, the complex amendment unfortunately dropped out of the appropriate addition to the branch connection of the detection device, which is a step backwards and, in fact, it actually obscures the definition of the detection device, or how it should be placed. The last thing that remains a bit problematic and, in turn, we completely understand that secret services are to work with foreign partners and increase cyber defence efficiency, but it requires international cooperation at a rather high level, relatively sensitive data are being transmitted, and the proposal does not contain any provisions, or at least some framework that would regulate international cooperation. So it's basically full of freedom, which, of course, is easier for Military Intelligence, but I'd imagine there'd be some boundaries set up there. Finally, as far as failures are concerned, I will comment on the amendment of the constitutionally-legal committee. On the one hand, he recommended a comprehensive amendment, which is okay, and I thank the constitutionally-legal committee for that, but then he proposes another amendment, which we have identified as C2 in the procedure, and I do not understand very much, frankly. I expected from the Constitutional and Legal Committee that more will stand up for checks and brakes and contradictions when military intelligence is increasing jurisdiction, however, the amendment to the Constitutional and Legal Committee unfortunately reduces the agreed changes, namely control. It provides for the possibility that the independent control authority may carry out checks on the basis of the network operators' initiative, i.e. that the operator may contact the control authority if he has any suspicions. This is please nice paragraph 4 in Article 1 in the present section 16l, newly 16m. [[10.30 hours]] It is also noted that the independent control body presents a detailed report on the control of activities to the Government and the Chamber of Deputies, the Minister of Defence. This is paragraph 2 in the original § 16h, newly 16i. And then there is a very reduced paragraph 3 in the existing § 16k, newly 16l. It stated what would happen to the internal inspector's report, and the paragraph was cut in a rather fundamental way. I think it's too bad. I think it's a shame that control mechanisms have finally fallen out of this, which the Military Intelligence itself has approached. In the last block of my speech, I would like to sum up our pirate amendments and also in response to Mr Žáček, through Mr President, I do not fully understand the point, nor do I understand why the ANO movement did not support, for example, an amendment relating to an independent control body, because Mrs Válková, the Government Human Rights Commissioner, said here at second reading that she would support the amendments that extend control, or that allow the independent control body to be implemented, and finally, even colleagues from the ANO movement voted on the Guarantee Committee. I'll get to it right away. It is Amendment D5. This concerns an independent control body that exists but is not fulfilled. I thank my colleagues that, in a comprehensive amendment, the demands on the cast or members of the supervisory body are reduced, namely in a comprehensive amendment, the need for legal education and also the need for the government to submit twice the nominations to the House. That's definitely a step in the right direction. We have decided in the amendment to simplify these conditions, and I do not really know which is against the meaning of the supervisory authority. We're reducing the age of those people from 40 to 30 years. We also say that the nominee should not be a member of the Security Corps, that only one year instead of three years would be enough, and we increase the pay rate from 0.25 to 0,75, so that someone should even report there so that it can occupy quality people, because as we know, the private sector just pays better and we can't be surprised that there aren't too many people rushing in. I do not understand why this amendment has not passed. I think that this is fully in line with what is in the comprehensive amendment. The government clerk here at second reading said she'd support it, eventually it didn't get the support of almost anyone on the guarantee committee. This is my amendment D5 which unfortunately did not receive the recommendation of the guarantee committee. I will go over our other amendments. D1 has the task of treating that Military Intelligence will not carry out an active intervention at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic. We want cooperation between Military News and the Police of the Czech Republic to take place, but unfortunately it is not explicitly treated in this proposal that Military intelligence cannot perform active intervention here at home in the Czech Republic at the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, which would not concern cyber defence, but perhaps some criminal proceedings. Therefore, we propose to cross out cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic. In Amendment D2, we want to strengthen the control of Military Intelligence, namely increasing the powers of the supervisory authorities, including the House Commission, our House Commission. The list of information to be submitted to the control authorities in the report on the activities of Military Intelligence shall be extended there. A list of the information that the supervisory authority may request proactively is being disseminated, reports on deficiencies in the provision of data protection and information processed by the inspector, as well as cooperation agreements between Military Intelligence and network operators. These are the contracts that will be used to pass on netflow information, as I have already mentioned. Then, in the amendment, we extend the list of information that control authorities may request, and we propose that network operators should be able to refer not only to the independent control authority but also to our House Commission. Amendment D3 regulates the content of the report on military intelligence activities. We are concerned that the supervisory authorities should be able to better monitor the activity of Military Intelligence in developing and setting up some metrics, such as year-on-year comparisons of the number of detection tools placed, the number of written contracts that we have already discussed here, the number of cases of use of synergies and so on. So there are some metrics that could in time show some sort of major increase in the location of detection tools, where the control authorities that are supposed to control - if military intelligence is increasing, we think it's supposed to increase, improve and control. And it is not really a hoax, but it is purely that the members of the House Commission have the opportunity to follow some basic metrics about the activities of Military Intelligence, for example, year-on-year. The last amendment - or I took it from the beginning from the end - D4 merely regulates the fact that our House Commission could, in addition to the independent control authority, comment on the conclusions of the internal inspector's inquiry. I think it is nothing to do with our House Commission having access to the same information as the independent control authority. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I have summed up first what has been done there from our point of view. I think that the proposal has made enough fundamental changes for the better - both during the negotiations over the last three years and during the last roughly year into a comprehensive amendment. I would like to thank my colleagues once again who helped prepare and support the comprehensive amendment. I also want to thank the Military Intelligence, which really communicated with us without a problem. Their communication was helpful, they tried to explain the reasons why they needed to expand their powers and so on. There really wasn't a single problem here. What I think is problematic is that such a crucial press, I even consider it to be perhaps the most fundamental law put forward by the Ministry of Defence during this parliamentary term, when some precedent is set for operations in cyberspace for Military Intelligence. I would have expected the Minister to be more active, to communicate more with us both towards the public, and to us Members, although I know that he was on the Guarantee Committee, that he was involved in negotiations during the course, but overall, I think that if military intelligence powers are substantially increasing and there are some problematic things there from the point of view of the privacy of Internet users or some constitutional brakes and contradictions, then the government should be the one to assume political responsibility and say out loud that it will not be abused, that it takes political responsibility for this, and if, God forbid, there is any abuse, it is the political responsibility of the government. And here in the Military Intelligence, it communicated with us beyond what was required of him. That wasn't really their job, that's the government's job. So I would also like to ask for the next time - and I understand that this has been classified differently at the last minute, and we have not always fully learned this in advance - so I would like, from our point of view, a fundamental draft to be better communicated by the government. As I said in the introduction, but I'd rather repeat it, the Pirate Party doesn't want to introduce an unlimited anarchy on the Internet. We are aware that the number of threats and attacks in cyberspace, for example hospitals during emergency conditions during the first wave of pandemics, is increasing. This is really serious. On the contrary, we are constructive and we fully understand that legislation must be adapted so that Military Intelligence can respond flexibly to new threats in order to avert attacks, even by active intervention. However, because of the things I said in the block that didn't work out, there are still some things from our point of view that aren't quite well-treated, not quite explicit wordings that would treat the need for sufficient control, so for that reason, the Pirates Club cannot support the law in the end. [[10.40 hours]] However, this certainly does not mean that we would not want the Military Intelligence to defend us in cyberspace, we are open to further discussions, and we will definitely need to reopen this discussion in time. And I would like to thank the Military Intelligence for its activities and for its communication with us. So once again and for the last time, it's really nothing against Military Intelligence as an institution. We have confidence in this institution, however, legislatively and from the point of view of public trust, citizens' confidence in the secret service, I think that regulatoryly this control should be better treated. Finally, the last amendment to the independent control authority. I really don't know what our amendment would go against. I think that the aim of all of us here - and it sounds repeatedly on the Defence Committee and on other forums - is to occupy the body. He's a mess, but it doesn't work. So, once again, I would like to express a slight outrage about why the amendment is so unacceptable: we are reducing the age from 40 to 30, we are increasing the man's reward, and we are just saying that he is not supposed to be a member, a member of the Security Corps, that one year instead of three years is enough. I don't think it's against the sense, on the contrary. We want the organ to fill up to start working. We believe that this would increase the public's confidence in Military Intelligence, too, if the body could be fulfilled. I hope that one day, whether our amendment passes or not, this will succeed. We as the Pirate Club will, as I said before, continue to open up a discussion on how to fill this body so that it can start working, as well as the Military Intelligence Control Committee here in the House. We'll be happy, and I have faith in her members and her chairman, a colleague of Vít Rakušan. As far as I have information, even though I'm not a member of that commission, communications are back to normal, and he's a partner for Military Intelligence. So, once again, I would like to put in a good word for you, fellow Members, to consider the support of, for example, the amendment, which merely says that the Commission's reports are to be extended by some metrics that would help Members to focus on how Military Intelligence works. That's all I'm saying. I know my speech was longer, but it's been here for three years. We worked on this rather intensively, I consider it an important press from the point of view of constitutional law, from the point of view of privacy, so it did not work for me and I had to cover really all the successes and failures that went well and failed in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u13	I thank Mr Kopřiv. Now, Mr Ondřej Profant, Leo Luzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u14	Good morning. I would only like to pierce a few things that my previous speaker has already said. In the Defence Committee, our proposal D5 was not supported to simplify the conditions for the occupation of an independent control body. If everything's all right, why isn't the organ taken yet? It's simple: we have some kind of organ, somehow it's assumed by the government, surely there are things that he should be dealing with, and it's not occupied. Then I guess there's something wrong with the entry conditions. I understand that someone may find our changes too radical, but he's quite the key organ. Of course, these conditions are always minimal. Just because we're reducing the age limit doesn't mean there's gonna be an automatic person at that age limit. He'll be there when he's chosen if there's no other candidate. The fact that we are raising money: this is the highest interest in national security - to have democratic control, to have professional control, and, at the same time, those people will have access to the most secret information, so the fact that they will be appreciated in any way other than honestly seems quite appropriate to us. The same strengthening or better definition of the powers of the parliamentary committee here. This is our business card, we are the highest civilian authority that oversees the state executive. Logically, I have talked about this with the rapporteurs, cooperation is very professional, and I think we should make it clear that we should start linking up exactly what we are guarding, checking that it is not just a nice talk, but that the statistics are clearly transmitted there, so that we really get closer to, for example, Western states, which really have a stronger parliamentary control. Whenever I've experienced a more intense situation in the committees, I've always learned: We can't do this, I'm not gonna give you this, etc. Then it's not control, then it's an argument, and it's useless and undignified. And I understand, of course, that when the situation is heated, when it's active, it's problematic. I think that's why right now, with a clear head, we should approve clear things as probe statistics. This really can not harm anyone, it is really because we have a long-term overview, so that to some extent even the commission is responsible for doing what may possibly happen. Because if we don't set the control mechanisms well, of course, it's actually awkward for everyone at the end. If no one tells you in time, "Hey, I don't think this is good anymore, then maybe you'll make a mistake. We all make mistakes, and there's really no interest in anyone here to make those mistakes. So that is Amendment D2. So I wanted to point out that the real problems here are objectively, that the amendments are not some drastic change. They're parametric changes, detailing the details. And I do not fully understand the power not to support these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u15	I thank Mr Profant. Now, Mr Leo Luzar, who is the last member of the debate so far at third reading. Yes, I see another application from my colleague Staněk. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Minister, perhaps I was the only one who was called upon to shorten his speech and not delay too much, yet I will not forgive myself for a short excursion into the formation of this law and the debates that stood by it. I'd like to remind you why Military Intelligence. The debate was around the fact that we have more authorities of state power, whether secret service, Military Intelligence, SAOKIB and other institutions that we have set up to protect the cyber security of the Czech Republic. And it was Military Intelligence that decided to go this way and by law to arrange for the possibility of black boxes placed on the network and monitoring. The debate, as you remember, was quite lively and we pointed out that the main objective should be to defend Czech cyberspace, which is what we have here in the institution, and it does not belong to the Military Defence Intelligence, because in it we see the reaction of a possible attack on possible reactions to the future. But so be it, they were the first to come up with this idea. I was struck by the arguments that were raised here, and remember, it was at the time of the cyber attack on the OKD, it was during the cyber attack on the Benešov hospital, all the consequences were emphasized, and especially from a certain political spectrum of this House, which, when they see Russian eggs, poppies are popping up. It has been said that it is clearly proven that this is an attack by Russian hackers associated with the Russian government and that there is a need to fight them hard and intervene, and that is why it is Military Intelligence the best that here clearly must play its part in this matter. But even beyond the attention of these microphones - which is why I am here - you have missed, dear colleagues, information that today it has turned out that ordinary criminals from Ukraine are behind this, who have thus gained enormous resources as well as within the framework of extortion of companies and companies. The international security organisation of the European Union, in cooperation with the Ukrainian police, managed to raid them and broke this group. So at least I don't expect those who have seen Russian influence to come here to apologize, but that, unfortunately, is already the color of this House. [[10.50 hours]] Now I will return to that foundation. There is a proposal here, which is actually a compromise proposal. Because, at first, Military Intelligence had tremendous support for its proposal before it hit the operators. They have begun to draw attention to the technological and technical problems that the proposal has. And here I have to say that their negotiating power is much greater than the negotiating political power of this House. The Military Intelligence didn't give up on us, but when the providers stood up to them, they backed down. Of course, they backed into pre-prepared positions, as is said in the military bailout, and prepared a proposal that is available to us today. When we looked at the amendments made here, of course, we take care to ensure that the basis is the maximum parliamentary scrutiny. Because so far we are not really convinced that such a massive intervention in information technology should have military intelligence. I would really understand if it were, like, the SACUIB or the Security Information Service. I would see it as certain, say, tolerance possibilities that these services should be given this approach. But it's military intelligence. That is why we have decided to respond to requests for control, which are linked to Amendments D1 to D5. When we met them, I must say that we do not see in them the risk, as has been said here and, as is justified by the petitioners, that their proposals are rejected, they were rejected on the defence committee, because something extra and more. In addition, I see the very security and the fact that these new things will at least get under parliamentary control in the context of Military Intelligence to a minimum acceptable extent. I firmly believe that thanks to these proposals, if amendments D1 through D5 were to be passed, I would like to put the control group in place immediately, because I cannot imagine that an organisation is going to start and then there will be control. It should probably be the other way around, first to have control and then to start this organization as such. However, as far as the other points are concerned, we will be delayed because it is still a problem for us to focus on Military Intelligence. I hope that if Parliament's committee can be met, which should deal with this, and if proposals D1 through D5 are adopted, which will increase control at least in statistical understanding, so that law may also be needed. But if I have correctly understood the petitioners and law-makers, not the amendments, but this law, they reject these proposals. And if that is the case, we will not support this law and we will refrain from voting because we would really like to have the maximum parliamentary control of these matters here, at least in the statistical sense, how many permits per year, those devices are placed on our network, how they are used over time, statistically. Just basic things to know if there's any artificial violation of freedom here, namely whether we're more at risk or less, and especially not being used politically. And here I drew attention to the case - that's what I started - as there was a brutal political abuse of the tragic case of the attack of Benešov Hospital and the company OKD hackers. And it was a political abuse to prove that it was an ordinary criminal act of criminal structures from Ukraine. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u17	Thank you, Mr Leo Luzar. Now my colleague Antonín Staněk. Didn't I find out if it was a priority right from a fellow Rakušan? No. Then MP Vít Rakušan. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u18	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I won't keep you long. I would just like to say that we appreciate that the government has tabled an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act, which aims to take account of the specifics of cyberspace in defending the state and its inhabitants. We also appreciate or respect that this amendment is based on the national cyber security strategy of the Czech Republic and allows us to detect cyber attacks and respond adequately to them. We also appreciate the fact that significant compromises have taken place during this amendment. The form currently presented meets our idea of what this law should look like. From this point of view, the members' club will support amendments which have been passed by the constitutionally-legal committee or are proposed by the constitutionally-legal committee and supported by the Defence Committee. Of course, we also perceive those opinions that draw attention to certain risks in the use of intelligence technology. However, we believe that the existing capacity of the Chamber of Deputies and the procedures in it are sufficient at the moment. We will therefore not support further amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u19	Thank you, Mr Antonín Staňek. Now Member Vít Rakušan, so far the last one entered into the debate. And once again, before I give my colleague Rakušan my word, I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. On the other hand, I would like to commend the atmosphere that is a little light after yesterday's day. I would even like to commend Military Intelligence, its Director Beroun, and to commend the Minister and colleagues from all sides in the House that we were able to look for a compromise that would work. For the Mayors and the independent in advance, I say that we will also respond positively to some amendments. On the other hand, we will support the law as a whole in the present form. At the same time, I would like to say here, as chairman of the mentioned Committee on Military Intelligence, that at this point, Director Beroun was actually doing a good job. After all, Director Beroun was not the one who asked that Military Intelligence be the place where the strategic task in the protection of the Czech Republic would fall. He accepted this role and all communication and readiness to compromise was great on his part all along. I say this quite responsibly as the chairman of this commission, who has discussed this matter with him for a long time. I would also like to respond a little to Mr Luzar's words that the power of some strong economic structures is greater than that of Members. On the contrary, I think that the debate was conducted in a very fair way. Of course, operators had to be involved in the debate. This is simply natural, because without agreement with them, we would not have reached the parliamentary agreement either. But the primary discussion took place from the beginning professionally on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in communication with the Ministry, so I wouldn't really give any doubt here that perhaps there was something more appropriate to some private companies than what would correspond to the security of the Czech Republic. Of course, we will support some proposals strengthening parliamentary control. On the other hand, we are all hoping that the big audit committee will be actually occupied after some legislative regulation and that the control of all secret services in the Czech Republic will receive the legislative framework that it deserves, because we all have to live in the comfortable state that we are protected by our services, but at the same time that these services are under control, as our legislation envisages. So here I would really like to call on the government to really try to make sure that the big audit committee, as we call it unprofessionally, is filled as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rakušan. That was the last one entered into the debate. I said, anybody else checking in? I'm done with the debate and I'm asking for final words? Mr. Secretary? Yes. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam, honourable Members, I will not be long, just briefly, because it was a long process, a long story for this law, for cyber defence. And I would like to thank all the political parties involved for their support, for their factual comments, and I am very pleased that this law will now fill the gap in defending our state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u23	Thank you. I'm asking about the final words of the rapporteurs. First the defense committee - no. A colleague of Lipavský, a permanent commission - he is not interested. My colleague, Marek Benda, is not interested in the final word. In that case, I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to repeat or at least bring us closer to the material, the resolution of the committee 800/6, according to which we will follow the vote. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u24	Thank you for your word. I've basically read the procedure before, slightly prematurely. So first, we would vote on the proposals under Section 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, if they are presented at third reading which were not. The next item will be the vote of Amendment D1 of Mr Kopřiva, as the third paragraph of Amendment D2 of Mr Kopřiva, fourthly Amendment D3 of Mr Kopřiva, fifth amendment D4 of Mr Kopřiva, sixth amendment D5 of Mr Kopřiva, seventh amendment C2, points 1, 2 and 3, resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, eighth amendment C2, paragraph 4, resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, ninth amendment C2, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee, then Amendments A1 to A38 and, lastly, we will vote on the bill as a whole as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u25	Thank you. Does anyone have a reservation on the procedure? It's not like that. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. The proposed procedure, which no one wants to amend, will be voted in the 330 vote that I have launched. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 330, of the 103 Members present for 102, against no one. The motion was accepted. Therefore, we will follow the approved procedure and I will ask the Minister to always state his position, as well as the rapporteur. First amendment, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u26	So the D1 of Mr. Kopřiva. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u27	I started voting number 331. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 331, 103, for 24, against 64. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u28	The next proposal is the D2 of Mr Kopřiva. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u29	I started voting number 332. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 332, from 101 Members present for 30, against 54. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u30	The next is Amendment D3 by Mr Kopřiva. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u31	I started voting number 333. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 333, 102 Members present, for 22, against 66. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u32	The next is Amendment D5 by Mr Kopřiva. The opinion of the Committee shall not be recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u33	I started voting number 334. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 334, present 101 Member, for 33, against 55. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u34	The next is Amendment C2, points 1, 2 and 3 under the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u35	I started voting number 335. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 335, present 100, for 70, against 11. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u36	The next proposal is Amendment C2, paragraph 4 under the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. The opinion of the Committee shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u37	I started voting number 336. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 336, 100 Members present, for 71, against 11. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u38	Next, we have Amendment C2, paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 under the resolution of the constitutionally-legal committee. Opinion of the Committee: consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u39	I've begun voting number 337. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 337, 100 Members present, for 67, against 11. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u40	Next, we have the amendments under paragraphs A1 to A38 under the resolution of the Defence Committee, and the Committee's position is in agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u41	I started voting number 338. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 338, out of 100 Members present for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u42	Yes, because Amendments A1 through A38 have passed, the unvoting proposals B and C1 are identical. [[President: Yes, logically.]] So we will vote on the bill as a whole. The opinion of the Committee shall be agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-002-365.u43	That is no longer necessary, only in the case of amendments. I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws, according to House press 800, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 339 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 339, from 100 Members present for 72, against 15. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Defence and also to the Minister of the Environment, who had the opening word, thank you to the rapporteur and I conclude the discussion of paragraph 365. According to the approved agenda, we will proceed with item number
