ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and Act No. 242/2016 Coll., Customs Act, as amended /German press 867/5/ - returned by the Senate I thank the Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová for staying in her place. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímca among us. I note that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution has been delivered as House press 867/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. So I will now ask again for peace and the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Government, Alena Schillerová, to give the floor. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly recapitulate the bill amending the Value Added Tax Act and the Customs Act. This is again particularly about the transposition of new European Union regulations, where the rules of the single digital market are gradually modernised throughout the European Union and the removal of barriers to distance sales and cross-border provision of services. In addition to strengthening consumer rights, new rules are also being introduced to ensure a more transparent, fairer and predictable online environment for businesses. There are also adjustments in the area of value added tax aimed at facilitating cross-border trade, ensuring fair competition between undertakings in the European Union and combating tax evasion. The proposal also contains partial amendments to the legislation in the context of European Union law, which take place on the basis of an evaluation of the needs of application practice by developing other legislation, and in particular the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It is a draft law which the Senate has returned to the Chamber of Deputies with an amendment containing the following amendments: the addition of a transitional provision extending the period in which broadcasters use a special method of calculating the deduction of tax in proportion, and the legislative technical arrangements consisting in particular in adjusting and eliminating the excess provisions related to the expiry of the implementation period on 1 July 2021. For myself, I say a neutral position on this amendment and on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you for your attention. In any case, please approve this law, because we would indeed complicate the setting of a single digital market for other Member States in the European Union if it had not been approved. That would be the worst option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u3	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová and ask Senator Vladislav Vilímec to clarify the Senate's position. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u4	Mr Vice-President, Vice-President of the Government, honourable Members, Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic by Resolution 261 of the 14th meeting held on 22 July 2021, returned the draft amendment to the Value Added Tax Act to the Chamber of Deputies and commissioned me to justify the amendments adopted. I would like to say that 71 senators and senators, when there was no vote against, voted in favour of returning the bill with the amendments adopted. The Senate took into account in its amendments that, as the Minister has already said, this is in principle a transposition amendment which fundamentally changes the rules of cross-border e-commerce, a new regime of one administrative place is being introduced by law. Since this is a transposition amendment, the Senate did not extend this proposal to amend other tax regulations. The draft law, as it emerged from the Chamber of Deputies, envisaged the entry into force of the date following the date of its publication, but first on 1 July 2021, one of the transitional provisions of the draft law in some cases also refers to the date of 1 April 2021. However, none of these alternative dates of entry into force could be used since the draft law was passed on to the Senate until the end of June 2021 and the time limit for discussion by the Senate would have expired on 28 July 2021. As a result, some of the provisions on effectiveness or with reference to past effectiveness are already so-called obsolent, unrealistic. The Senate therefore recommends that these obsoletal provisions of the bill be deleted. This is the subject of the amendments adopted under points 2, 3 and 5. The amendment to the Senate under point 1 corrects such a minor legislative inaccuracy in the formulation of paragraph 21 of the draft law, which, according to Senate legislation, could cause interpretational problems. This is the cancellation of the coupling "or', which is in the present section 21 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (i) contained twice. The Senate therefore amended this point 21 with the fact that it was the cancellation of the words "or' at the end of the letter. i). We consider this essential in order not to create any interpretational disputes. The fourth point of the Senate's amendments is the extension of the transitional provision on the rules for calculating the reduced right to deduct VAT in the case of broadcasters in proportion by three years until 31 December 2024. It is not a new proposal, it is a proposal that has been put forward here during the drafting of the bill and has not passed by just one vote. The current deadline for that transitional provision is indeed limited by the end of this year, 31 December 2021, and therefore, in the absence of an extension of the transitional provision or any special arrangement, the situation which existed here until 1 July 2017 when the VAT Act laid down the ambiguous rules for calculating the reduced VAT right, which would lead, on the one hand, to various disputes with the financial authorities, with the tax authorities, and these disputes are not even judicially decided. In addition, there would be a CZK 400 million outage of Czech television revenue and around CZK 120 million in the case of Czech Radio. These are the reasons why the Senate pushed through this proposal, which appeared for the first time here in the Chamber of Deputies, and in the amendments with which it returns this bill to the Chamber of Deputies. We have therefore decided to give the next House and the next government time to find a long-term legislative solution so that transitional provisions do not continue to be extended - such a solution that will not cause any confusion or possible litigation. So, honourable Members, I ask you to approve these amendments, which the Senate has attached to the decision to return the bill. Thank you for your attention and for supporting the Senate's amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, Senator Vladislav Vilímc. I will now ask Mr Jan Volný, who was rapporteur for the Guarantee Budget Committee, if he wishes to comment on the Senate's position. I do not see my colleague, so I am opening a general debate. I state that I have no application for it... but I see myself from the position to report to Mr. Václav Votava. I'll ask the House for peace. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to support what has come from the Senate, especially because the Senate extends the deadline given by Czech Television and Czech Radio with its amendment in order to use, albeit briefly, a deduction to value added tax. We had already discussed this in the last parliamentary term and I was glad that he had gone through our proposal and this was allowed by Czech Television and Czech Radio. At the time it was in connection with digitization, and there was also a commitment by Czech Television that it would not seek to increase the licence fee, which also, if I am not mistaken, happened and the licence fee did not change. The volume of funds received by Czech Television and Czech Radio, the Senate's rapporteur, has mentioned 400 million for Czech Television and 150 million for Czech Radio, is really important for these institutions, given that I will transfer it to Czech Television, how many programs Czech Television currently has. And if I put it in the worst time of the crisis, she came up with new programs, with new shows, and she suffered losses, of course, and had higher costs. So I'd really like it to be backed up and approved by the Senate version. I am glad that the Minister of Finance has expressed a neutral position that she has not strictly rejected it. I know there were problems. At the time, we discussed these matters very vividly in relation to the European Union's directives and so on, but I am pleased that the Minister has given a neutral position on this, and I believe that most Members will also support the possibility that Czech Television and Czech Radio, albeit for a limited period of time, will still have the possibility to deduct VAT.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-14-ps2017-118-01-002-002.u7	I thank Mr Václav Votav. My colleague Volný came into the hall, so if he wants to express himself as rapporteur? It's not like that. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Is there interest in final words? Madam Secretary? Senator? It's not like that. [[Gong.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies. Once again, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. I'll check you out again. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of entries has settled, we will decide by vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended, and Act No. 242/2016 Coll., Customs Act, as amended, pursuant to House Press 867/5, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 867/6.' I've started the number 32 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 32, from 161 Members present for 141, versus 17. The motion was accepted. Thank you, Minister, thank you, Mr. Senator, and I'm done with item 2. The next item is:
