ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-011-385.u1	385. Proposal for the election of a member of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund Round two. For the first time, we dealt with this point on Tuesday, 10 November 2020. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to repeat the candidates and lead us through the election. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-011-385.u2	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr President, and I wish you good afternoon, colleagues. At the beginning of the three electoral points, I will briefly say at all about the decision to organise the elections. As President of the Election Commission, I would prefer to choose them, except for the day when the House is in full number, for example, in the Senate vomit. This is partly due to logistical reasons that, as an electoral commission, we wouldn't even be able to judge, evaluate, evaluate who is and who is not paired up on those lists where we issue tickets. Second, the opinion of the Legislative Department of 22 September 2020 did not recommend the holding of partial elections. But I respect the decision of the Grémia of the Chamber of Deputies, we are a sovereign, and if that is the majority will, then, of course, it is not a problem to organise the election. Just in order to really comply with the House's Rules of Procedure and the House's Rules of Procedure, we have decided to proceed with its compliance - and this is information for you, for the members of the Members' Clubs and for you, individual Members, that the elections will be legally, purely, rightly, transparent and ready for a full number of Members of the Chamber of Deputies. This means: where you will pick up tickets, your presence at the election will be recorded. We have 200 tickets and Members prepared theoretically, so we will not prevent any of the Members from taking part in the elections, and anyone who is present in the House can come to them. Members are aware that the elections have been included in the House's agenda for today. And then the procedure is standard. The call required for election or non-election will normally be calculated from the recorded Members and Members who took part in the election, i.e. from the active voters, we will normally calculate the call required for election. So much for the introduction. And yet a second addition, that's traditional in this period. I beg your patience and respect for the security divisions of both each other and the members of the electoral committee. Keep your pencils, they're not ready in those plates, and you can also use disinfectants or protective devices. And now for the polls. The first point is therefore a proposal to elect a member of the Council of the State Cinematography Fund. At this point we move in the second choice and in the second round. In the first round, which took place on November 10th, no one was elected and twice the candidates for the second round went to one vacant post. It is Mrs Natasha Slavíková with 82 votes and Mr Jiří Voráč with 43 votes. Because this is the second round of the secret election, please, Mr President, to interrupt this point and open another ballot point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-011-385.u3	Yes, I interrupt this point. Opening point
