ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-005-041.u1	41. Government Bill on the Electronisation of Health / House print 1163/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-005-041.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce the Government's bill on the electronisation of health care. I am extremely pleased to introduce him here because I consider him one of the fundamental and very fundamental laws of our department and I think that this is a very good and pragmatic proposal that can change a number of things for the better. The Government's bill seeks a systemic, comprehensive legal anchoring of new components and technologies in the field of electronicisation of the Health Department, as the existing legislation is fragmented in this area and there are only some elements misleading electronicisation into health care. This situation is completely unsatisfactory, as the fragmented form of sub-regulation actually makes it impossible to manage the electronic health system effectively. The experience of the last few months in dealing with the epidemic of COVID-19 disease has shown the need for the electronicisation of health care and, above all, its legislative anchoring. Existing statistical data in national health registers are clearly not a sufficient platform to ensure the effectiveness of health care and its sustainability or the quality and safe provision of health services for the future, including effective solutions such as pandemic infectious diseases. It is therefore more than necessary to ensure the existence in real time of available and correct data on the provision of health services, health workers and patients, enabling them to be identified. The proposed law includes, in particular, the basic infrastructure for the electronicisation of health care, the legally defined roles and responsibilities of the entities in the system and the definitions related to the concepts, standards of communication, rules of sharing or transmission of medical documentation. I think that this is a very pragmatic law, which you can think of as, for example, a kind of track, which will allow trains to ride completely different in the future, according to their needs, and always safely and in the standard way. Of course, the law also corresponds to all the standards on personal data protection, and I think it is one of the few laws that have been communicated very closely in advance across all the expertise, all the interest groups and the entire political spectrum. I think we all agree that it is extremely important and extremely necessary. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the bill tabled is intended to contribute in many respects to improving the functioning of the health service system, particularly at the moment affected by the covid pandemic, but also after it, in favour of both patients and health services providers as well as other stakeholders, and I therefore politely allow you to ask for its support. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-005-041.u3	I thank the Minister and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-005-041.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, I think the Minister has made it quite clear what we are doing in this law. It is a completely new legislative standard that our health care needs immensely. We have to realise that, unfortunately, when it comes to electronization in health care, we are unfortunately at one of the last places in Europe, and even though we have some options at the moment, such as electronic recipe, electronic disability, we also have the so-called PACS system, which is the electronic transmission of image documentation, so we need a legislative instrument, a basis that will lead it all, well said by the Minister, compared it to the rails. The individual parts are clearly listed there, as has been said. We have dealt with this law a lot in the subcommittee for eHealth and UHIS and the Ministry of Health in this matter did a great deal of work, which ultimately resulted in a number of comments from professional companies in the first round and then in the next round also in the interdepartment, I think internal management, was fully accepted by all health care providers and participants, such as the Czech Medical Chamber, such as the Association of Practical Physicians and others. It was just widely discussed and ultimately very positively accepted and I think we can evaluate this work very positively. I would only technically have such a suggestion that, given that point 42 is about electronisation in the health sector and related laws, I would propose a merged debate, because it is closely related, and then in a detailed debate I would propose a reduction in deadlines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-005-041.u5	Yes, I'm sorry, this is where the proposal was made to bring the debate together on both of these points. This is a procedural proposal that we should probably vote on immediately. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. [[18.10 hours]] There is a proposal for us to merge the debate on paragraph 41 and point 42. I will now put it to a vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 188, registered 88 Members, for 78, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and we will have a merged debate. That means I'm interrupting item 41 right now. Initiating point
