ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 86th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. Given the fact that negotiations are currently taking place between the representatives of the coalition and the opposition, I have been asked by the President of the MPs to interrupt this meeting. We'll continue at 10:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the 86th session of the Chamber of Deputies has already begun at 9.00. We will now proceed. In order to record your participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called this meeting following Section 99 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, according to which I declared a state of legislative emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, February 16th of this year. We will now proceed to the designation of two meeting verifiers. I propose that we designate Mr Dolínek and Mr Jaroslav Holík. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone in the room. I therefore initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of the proposal? Who's against it? Voting number one. Registered 127, 125, no one. The motion was accepted. Jiří Běhounek - personal reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek - without giving reason, Jan Birke - health reasons, Stanislav Blaha - health reasons, Jiří Bláha within 10 hours - working reasons, Monika Červíčková - health reasons, František Elfmark - personal reasons, Jaroslav Foldyna - health reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček - health reasons, Stanislav Grospič - health reasons, Tereza Hyťhová by 9.45 hours - health reasons, Martin Jiránek - health reasons, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Jana Levová - health reasons, Jana Mračková Vildumetzová - family reasons, Petr Pávek - personal reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - health reasons, Karla Šlechtová - health reasons, Petr Třešňák - health reasons, Václav Votava - health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - working reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. Minister Jana Maláčová also apologizes for this morning's meeting for work reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, on 6 January this year, by my decision number 87 on the basis of the Government's proposal, I have declared a state of legislative emergency. In connection with the announcement of a state of legislative emergency, the Government has requested that the following House prints, which it has approved and submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, be discussed in a short hearing pursuant to Paragraph 99 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. It is a government bill on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and on the amendment of some related laws, House press 1158, shortened negotiations; Government bill amending Act No. 600/2020 Coll., on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2021, House press 1159, shortened negotiations, and government bill on compensation bonus for 2021, House press 1160, shortened negotiations. By decision number 96, I decided to discuss these government proposals in a short hearing and ordered the House Press to discuss the 1158 Committee on Health, House Press 1159 and 1160 to the Committee on Budgets. I have set them an unstoppable deadline for submitting a resolution by 18 February 2021 within 8 hours. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies are in a state of legislative emergency before discussing the proposal for a programme to assess whether the state of legislative emergency persists. I am opening up a debate on this. I'm asking if anyone's interested in a performance? I don't see anyone in the room. No one's checking in. The debate is over and I will proceed to the vote. With replacement card number 17, Mr Novák votes. I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies confirms the duration of a legislative emergency." Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number two. Admitted by 151 Member, for 148, against 1. The motion was accepted. Thank you. We will now proceed to the proposal for an 86th meeting, as stated on the invitation. I have two applications with priority rights at the moment, which were in writing before the beginning of the meeting. Or the first to report to Vice-President Okamura, after which will be prepared by President Stanjura. [[Short silence.]] I'm sorry, you have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I request that you place an extraordinary point in the House's meeting today. I'd like that as point number one, the very opening point of our meeting today. This item has the name Unconstitutional declaration of emergency. [[There's restlessness and noise in the room.]] The SPD movement in no way has ever undermined the current serious situation or undermined it. We are proposing an alternative solution from last spring to the endless emergency situation, which is the only government recipe. We propose that measures be targeted at risky and vulnerable groups, the sustainability of the health system, and that most citizens do not -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u4	I'll cut you off, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the hall!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u5	- and the majority of citizens, which experts estimate is about 80 percent, so that we let live and work only with basic measures. In this context, however, the government of the Czech Republic declared an emergency state that ignores and circumvents the decision of the Chamber of Deputies from last Thursday, it is an emergency state declared by the Government of the ANO and the ČSSD movement and ignores the fact that the House did not extend its emergency status by voting last Thursday. The government ignored this House's decision and on Sunday, last Sunday, declared an emergency again. There was therefore a complete conflict with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies to continue the emergency without interruption. This means the government has decided to continue the emergency without interruption against the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. The government has actually decided to ignore the constitutional role of the House, especially its supervisory function over the government's actions. The government's argument that it acted on the request of the chieftains is entirely purposeful and the captains have effectively removed their responsibilities. There is an endless extension of the emergency situation. It is a fact that our country is in serious condition. It is the government's responsibility that its policy has failed. The government has failed and is now asking to continue its mistakes outside the Constitution. And that's important, whatever the serious situation is. It is necessary to ensure that the Constitution is respected, because at the moment when we stop paying attention to compliance with the Constitution in any situation, democracy in the Czech Republic ends. The Constitution is a fundamental document of this country and it is the duty of the House to protect it. [[10.10 hours]] The country is exhausted by a misguided government policy, and people's patience is over. The rule has broken many times the rules, meaningless restrictions, and bad communication are the cause. Citizens and their work are in difficult social and life situations. Earth needs a new approach. Work and business in retail and services must be made possible under clear anti-epidemic conditions. People have to buy shoes, gloves, or get a haircut. We aim to protect vulnerable groups and the health system. The kids have to go back to school. I therefore once again propose that we vote on my proposal, on the SPD's proposal, to include as the first item in today's House of Deputies meeting a point entitled 'Unconstitutional Declaration of Emergency Situation', and if this point is being voted on, I propose that we vote on a one-day resolution. This resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic abolishes the emergency state declared by the Government of the Czech Republic on 15. 2. 2021. Sorry, 14. 2. 2021. I think it is extremely important to vote on this point because there was an interesting situation here that, a week ago, the opposition parties except the SPD, that is, Pirates, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 and STAN, basically agreed with the government to extend the emergency situation on condition that all opposition parties vote in favour of the SPD. It's the alibi of the highest caliber because the SPD said from the beginning that we don't want to prolong the emergency situation and we're proposing alternative solutions. We propose an amendment to the Public Health Act so that we can target the protection of vulnerable and risk groups and maintain a health system without extending the emergency situation. Well, the moment the SPD said no last Thursday, because I don't know why we should change our long-term position, so the other five opposition parties said, if the SPD didn't, then neither do we. Again, the alibi of the highest caliber. I was surprised that these five parties had to rely on the SPD's opinion in order to make their own political decisions. Well, let's keep going. And on this basis, it turns out that these parties really want to prolong the emergency, the endless lockdown. So their captains agreed with the Prime Minister over the weekend, these are the ODS officials, KDU-ČSL, STAN, but the pirát are also in charge of these regions of course, and these parties, and TOP 09, have agreed with the Prime Minister to request an extension of the emergency situation against the decision of their Members, contrary to the decision of their Members on Thursday. So there has been some confusion in these parties, because Members vote to prolong the emergency situation and their leadership wants to prolong the emergency situation, the endless lockdown, which, on the contrary, has proved not to work, and the numbers are rising, even though it is an endless lockdown. That's why I'm saying we need to change the attitude. So we would now, because there is essentially an unconstitutional situation, on which constitutional lawyers also agree, so we - once again stress - do not want any anarchy, we do not want any destruction - we propose a constructive solution and a concrete solution to address the current serious situation, but this is a Constitution, so it is not contrary to what we have been presenting here from the outset. And now it is important that when we vote, we check how the other five opposition parties actually approach it, because until now it's where the wind is, there's a cloak. Or it could also be called a flexible spine. So now, on this very vote, whether or not we decide to include that point, that is, the item called Unconstitutional Declaration of Emergency, will be shown by the vote of all the Members of all the political parties in the House, who, therefore, agrees a) with the unconstitutional situation, and b) who actually agrees that the only solution is the extension of... with an extension of the emergency state under these unconstitutional conditions. So already this vote, whether you approve it or not, because if that point is approved, then we will be voting on the resolution I was talking about, but even if the vote does not come to that vote, it will be the vote itself, and in a moment it will be voted on, the SPD proposal, the non-constitutional declaration of emergency, so here we will see exactly who is taking the stand for it. Because the vote of the five opposition parties, other than the SPD, is contrary to the negotiations made by their captains on Sunday, so now it is necessary to set up a mirror and ask who, from the parliamentary parties in the House, is really taking a stand. So I'm suggesting this, I'm suggesting it as the first point, and I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. The Vice-President has a strong voice, so he yelled you out, but I'm still asking you to lower the level of noise in the room. If you have something to discuss or haven't seen each other in a long time, go to the lobby. Chairman Stanjura, priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear two members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to present a joint draft of the ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 clubs, our electoral coalition of the SOLU. Before I bring it to the end, allow me a few words to justify it. Firstly, I want to appreciate the political negotiations that have taken place over the pandemic law. It ended about half an hour ago, and with the exception of the SPD, and I respect that, the other parties have agreed on the text of the pandemic law, which is very important, and I think all the participants have shown understanding and effort to agree. And I want to thank the government's majority for actually accepting, I would say, to the fullest extent of our comments on this proposal. I can sigh it's late, but as the classic says, better late than late. So that's good news. I have to get back to last Thursday, when we voted to end the emergency. It is our authority, the Chamber of Deputies is in this sovereign, and we have fulfilled this power by this decision. By Sunday, the emergency lasted 132 days at a time, from Sunday many of us believe that it is declared again in violation of constitutional order. I don't usually do this, but I'm really going to read you the pledge of the MP we all made, otherwise we wouldn't be here: I promise my loyalty to the Czech Republic. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. I promise on my honor that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience. Let's focus on the second sentence in the next debate. I promise to uphold her Constitution and laws. If some of us believe that we are in unconstitutional condition today, and if those who believe in it want to keep that promise, which is really serious, it is no formality, I think it must be done. Our colleagues from the upper chamber will file a constitutional complaint tomorrow that they cannot act differently. It is clear to me that who decides whether we are in a constitutional or unconstitutional state is neither the Chamber of Deputies, nor its individual Members, nor the Senate, nor individual senators. It's just the Constitutional Court. But I and my colleagues from ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL believe that we are in an unconstitutional state, that although we could remain alibistically silent for 14 days, possibly file a complaint with the Constitutional Court. But we have other options under the laws and constitutions that we are to observe, as promised. And I think we should use them. [[10.20 hours]] I would like to propose as the second point in today's negotiations - because we consider it a key political agreement to be translated into the vote and the approval of the pandemic or anti-pandemic law would be better than what is said in the general public debate - as the second point that would be called the End of the emergency state declared by the government on Sunday, 28 February. And the resolution that I propose, which I think is logical, right and constitutional - because it is not the Chamber of Deputies that put us in an unconstitutional state, it is not even the captains who put us in an unconstitutional state. Yes, they have asked, but the Czech Government decides - the resolution we are proposing together is: "The Chamber of Deputies is abolishing emergency status at the date of the anti-pandemic law's effectiveness." Alternatively, in a detailed debate, I can read the exact name of the law. But I think you understand what I'm suggesting. Seems reasonable to me. It seems to me that my colleagues and I will keep the promise that we have made here publicly by saying the word I promise, by handing it to the President or Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and by signing it. The important thing is to say that nothing ends today. Today and, if necessary, by discussing the anti-pandemic law in the Senate, there is an increased chance that we will be able to deal with this as the Czech Republic. Because 136 days of emergency, and look at the numbers from yesterday or today, and we need to change our approach. But above all, we must increase citizens' confidence in the actions of the government and Parliament as a whole. We believe that this political agreement over the pandemic law shows citizens that we are able to agree that we are thinking about reality, that we know that we cannot continue to do what we have done so far, and that we need to change our approach. And it increases the chance that the trust of citizens in the actions taken by the government, the House, or the Senate will simply be higher. That's what we think is crucial. Because if our citizens don't believe that the government is doing this cleverly, rationally, efficiently, humbly, they won't follow it, and it doesn't really matter what measures they take and what measures they don't. I don't want to discuss one measure right now, the other, say this is good, and this is worse. That's not going anywhere. But we have to change that attitude. And we'll only change it together. Along with the citizens. They won't change it at government level, Houses, Senate level. But we can create an environment of trust, we can show that we perceive people's problems and that we are together ready to look for solutions, so that we can cope better than before, because we haven't succeeded yet. But in all these debates, let's remember the basic thing. The Government of the Czech Republic has a key responsibility, that is a fact. The government relies on the trust expressed by the Chamber of Deputies, and only some Members have given it that confidence. They were members of the movement YES, members of the movement of Czech social democracy and members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. And those who didn't trust her are logically opposed. Because if there was another majority, we'd have another government. And if we go back to last Thursday, then what happened? As Prime Minister, Andrej Babiš lost the majority in the Chamber of Deputies at a crucial moment. Under normal circumstances, a normal political instrument is at such a point that the government is leaving and a different majority is being created. An early election agreement is usually the solution to such a crisis. That cannot be done in this case. I can't. We have no way of dividing citizens' votes. That means the Prime Minister had the key responsibility to lose the majority at that point. And it wasn't surprising because we voted six last Thursday. Some parties were opposed six times, or the only party was opposed six times, and five other opposition parties were opposed five times. The only thing that happened was that Prime Minister Andrej Babiš lost the support of the KSČM MP last Thursday. And who other than the Prime Minister has the task of looking for and finding the majority? The opposition has made very effective use of this time since Thursday. There's been a meeting we've been calling for a long time. We appreciate them and are ready to vote actively in favour of the political agreement at point one. At the same time, we say, because there is another political composition of the Senate, that we will do everything we can to ensure that this political agreement is approved not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but for the first time - for the first time - was approved in the Senate. Thank you for your attention. And I think that each of us, when we think about the promise, should support our joint proposal, the second point, the end of the emergency, to the date of application of the pandemic law. We have repeatedly asked the Minister of Health yesterday and today, and he has repeatedly answered us, and I think he is ready to repeat that if the law is approved in the wording of the political agreement, we will have all the tools available at this stage - I am pointing out at this stage - he, the Ministry of Health and the government as a whole need to combat the Chinese flu effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I will ask you, before the performance of other people with priority rights takes place, to think about it again, because from my point of view these are proposals - both proposals are in accordance with Section 109m paragraph 1 point (d), the cancellation of the emergency situation before expiry. That means, in terms of content, it's the same design, except for another term. From my point of view, it would be more appropriate to vote two proposals on one point. But I'll give you some space to think about. I have two priority rights here. Or if you could just come by and talk to me about it. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Okamura, then next Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out, here we have heard from the media and from my previous speaker, the President of the Zbyněk Stanjura, that the ODS senators have filed a constitutional complaint against the extension of the emergency situation. I don't know if it's the ignorance of the senators, perhaps yes, the Senators for the ODS, but I had a written opinion drawn up on Monday - I have it on my desk - by the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, which confirmed that this type of constitutional complaint does not fall under the statutory decision of the Constitutional Court. This means that the Constitutional Court does not have to deal with this complaint in the event of an emergency. This means that it is purely up to the will of the Constitutional Court whether it will deal with it or not. But in this case, there is no constitutional complaint of this type, this content, to abolish the emergency state declared by the government. The Constitutional Court has no obligation to deal with this complaint. And in point two, I have - the legislative department of the Chamber of Deputies continues - that this is the solution precisely because it falls under the House's gesture and the House's decision, it is basically only the House's vote. So a constitutional complaint by the Senators of the ODS pen is basically a political gesture, perhaps even a gesture of ignorance. Therefore - I also have a constitutional complaint here, where all Members of the SPD are signed. I got it right here. But we just delayed it by that one two days, because instead of smacking into the water and running into the media, like the President of the Senate, Mr. Vystrčil, I waited for the written opinion that the House's legislative department was doing all day on Monday. And it turned out exactly what I expected was the only solution, and it's right in my opinion, because the House is a sovereign - that we here in the House must decide by the vote. [[10.30 hours]] So it's just about the constitutional activity. So making excuses for a constitutional complaint that she's already been filed and that it's a solution is wrong, or that the party has the right to file it, but it doesn't solve the situation. She's really up to the House vote that's gonna happen here anyway. So that's what it's all about. Of course, we have also called on other MPs to sign up for us under a constitutional complaint. We have the signatures of the members of the SPD, but I note that the only solution, and we are following this, is the vote of the House. On Monday we began collecting signatures under an extraordinary meeting, but again - there is a deadline for the assembly of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore there is no immediateness. It's just about the constitutional complaint. Secondly, I wanted to say to the pandemic law, well, let's face it, the pandemic law, as you agreed, all parties agreed on this text, except for the SPD, is basically a rollover of the current emergency state. It's an otherwise-named emergency state, otherwise-named lockdown, otherwise-named annual lockdown. For a year! Because, in order not to do so, the SPD proposed three essential comments that we wanted to have incorporated there. First, if, on the basis of this, the government and now other opposition parties created by the pandemic law, or otherwise named in an emergency situation, we wanted the House to have to vote on them in order to discuss them in the House if these measures last longer than two weeks. But this fundamental point of ours has been rejected. Secondly, we wanted the law to say that the government is obliged to propose compensation at the same time as those measures. It's not there again. Hand in hand to make it work, not additionally, then, sometimes, when companies fail or when people lose their jobs. The third point of our note is that the measures must be duly justified. Here we also see the difference, the emergency situation and the ordinary law. And it wasn't incorporated there either. This means, I consider it a great alibiism, when the five other opposition parties gathered in the so-called demo block, that means Pirates, ODS, STAN, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 say: If a new pandemic law is adopted now, we raise our hand to abolish the emergency situation. - But the pandemic law, as you agreed, is in principle - I say in principle - only an otherwise named emergency state. It's a different name for a general emergency, another lockdown, only alibistically otherwise named. That's why the SPD didn't join the agreement, because we're proposing alternative solutions, targeting endangered risk groups, sustainability of the health system, and most importantly, it's the lockdown again. And I'm saying that lockdown isn't the solution, and I'm saying that flat bans aren't the way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mrs Markéta Pekarová apologizes to Adamová for health reasons, she apologises to Mrs Ivana Nevludová from 9 o'clock to the end of the week for health reasons, Mr Jan Čižinský apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons, Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová apologises for today's and tomorrow's meetings for health reasons. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have called for negotiations. We called him up by not agreeing to extend the emergency. We've finally managed to get the government to the negotiating table. Let us remember that in Germany, they approved the pandemic law on 25 March 2020. We're almost a year late, and we should finish him off. So I am glad that the bill is included, that we have been able to agree that we have been completely constructive in this and in line with what we have been saying since April of last year, that such a law should exist with the state of the pandemic emergency. We are therefore in a situation where we have a running negotiation that is partially concluded by an agreement on the pandemic law, but we do not yet have an agreement on what will happen after the emergency situation has ended, because the pandemic law is only a framework that must be filled with real policy, for example, in order to apply measures that are needed to limit the spread of pandemics, such as carrying safer protection of the mouth in various places where people are concentrated, including production, of course, extension of testing, etc. Those are all the things that have to be arranged to work after the emergency. So the negotiations are running, we are putting ourselves in them to the maximum with the agreement of a solution that will benefit all citizens, and therefore I am very reluctant to do anything that could lead to to torpedoing these negotiations. In the framework of the pandemic law, we have managed to push through a number of changes that we have proposed. Firstly, our proposal to compensate for the damage we had prepared in cooperation with the Reconstruction of the State was taken over by the solution that they would be applied centrally on the basis of a form by the Ministry of Finance with a methodology, of course the government was not willing to proceed to the same level as we proposed and therefore only the compensation of the actual damage entered into the law, but I would point out that the actual damage must be considered not as damage to the matter, but according to the case law of the Constitutional Court it also includes the costs associated with the damage and its solution in the given situation. Of course, this will be discussed in detail by the relevant courts, which, as in the case of claims under the crisis law, will have a definitive say in determining the extent of the damage compensation. Secondly, we were able to enforce a reduction in the non-proportionary fines that were in the law, because there was a CZK 100,000 penalty for negative violations, such as one-off, say, misconduct, for example by the use of protective or disinfectants by a natural non-business person. There the Ministry accepted a reduction of CZK 30,000. One thing that remains with the government is that it is necessary to resolve the scope of those authorisations so that a mandatory testing, safety and health protection system can be implemented in relation to covid. And one thing that the Ministry rejected was the constitutionally conformal setting of one authorisation, so there it will be considered for specific measures of a general nature in administrative courts. On the other hand, the government has come to our satisfaction in regularly informing the Chamber of Deputies every two weeks and reviewing the measures as well as in effective judicial review, which will be concentrated in the Supreme Administrative Court in the case of the Ministry of Health measures. So we have reached an agreement on this, and I believe that we will continue to resolve the situation. As for President Stanjura's proposal, I have no problem discussing this here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, just to point out that we cannot anticipate when the pandemic law will come into effect. We have two chambers here, we have the President of the Republic, and although there are signals that they will act quickly with regard to the situation we have, there is a 30-day deadline under the Constitution. Thus, any proposal to end the emergency situation should be modified in such a way as to make it clear that, if the law does not come into force until a certain date, for example until 27 February, which is the day before the emergency situation was to end, it would end on the basis of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, otherwise it could raise various doubts as to whether, for example, it was not an implicit extension of the emergency situation if the pandemic law were to take effect at a significantly later time than the announcement of the emergency situation would otherwise have ended, as the government adopted it. So I assume these are the changes that we're going to discuss when we place this point after the pandemic law is passed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr President. The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will not give any more coherent political speech, but as is necessary at the opening of the meeting, I will propose to this meeting as item 3 of the press 317 of the amendment to the Labour Code, which was returned to second reading at the last meeting, which was discussed in the Committee on Social Policy at second reading, and I think that we can make this press, as it was already ready after the amendment, to discuss and approve at third reading. So third reading of the press 317 as the third point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Please, Prime Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u15	Good morning. Mr President, members of the government, co-workers, colleagues, let me ask you, let's see what's on our board. It's got a meeting show on it. Please, let's be brief, let's vote on the agenda of the meeting, and then let's leave the comments on what everything has been negotiated, what the agreement is, what the parameters are, and how we will proceed with the pandemic law and other prints, to the individual points. Now let's approve this agenda so the House can really act, because it doesn't really make sense to read these things at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u16	Thank you. At this stage, I would like to recapitulate that, already on 16 February, a proposal was delivered to the Secretariat of the President of the Chamber of Deputies - Mr Tomio Okamura's request to include a new point, as he has now put it on the microphone regarding the end of the declared emergency situation. The same request came a day later from Mr Lubomír Volný. Both applications are essentially identical, it is formulated in accordance with § 109m para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) the Rules of Procedure. The third request of this type under the same paragraph was read by the chairman of the ODS. In agreement with the ODS and SPD, we will call this point Closing the emergency situation and will only differ the ODS and SPD proposal regarding the classification of whether the first or second point. In this context, I would like to state on the microphone and on the record that I am aware of the wording of § 109m para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) in particular point (d) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013; The President of the House shall immediately convene a meeting of the House, if a meeting is held, for consideration of the proposal. The Rules of Procedure are somewhat imperfect in this section, and this has never happened in the past. The diction of the law is that it is such a suggestion that it should be included immediately directly by the President. However, we would once again open Pandořin's box that one Member can basically cause an extraordinary meeting or a place without others having the opportunity to discuss it. If this were an emergency meeting, I'd probably insist on 40 signatures, on a qualified majority. Now we have a proposal for basically two clubs that have already put together 40 Members, plus the House will vote on it as a sovereign. Another whole coalition of the SPOLU, actually. This seems to me to be a perfectly comfortable situation in order to signal to other Houses by the next time, for example, that if someone proposed the procedure under § 109m para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) that it cannot be on one Member. It is not possible for one Member to cause an emergency meeting. So if there is no objection to such a vote, we will continue the agenda. [[No one's answering.]] At this point, I'm asking if anyone is interested in speaking on the agenda. Was Mr. Freeman logged in, or did he just suggest... Your proposal has already been made, so I am recapitulating that the proposal has also been made by Mr Volný. When I see you like that, I'd like to ask you once again to deploy mouth and nose protection in accordance with government measures... You're not gonna do it, so I'm gonna give you both a heads-up, and we're gonna move on, we're gonna focus on what we came for. If no one else... On the agenda, Chairman Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u17	Good morning, colleagues. I'd like to take a 15-minute break on behalf of our club before the final vote on the program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u18	I didn't hear. How many minutes? [[Ambassador Chvojka: Fifteen minutes.]] Well, we'll stop in 11 hours. I hereby adjourn the meeting until 11:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u19	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 11.20 hours, so we should continue. I see the Member's report, however, to move forward at least a little, so I will read that Mr Jan Skopeček will vote with a replacement card number 18 and that Mrs Langšádlová apologizes today between 14.30 and 23.00 for family reasons, and Mr Klaus apologizes today between 10.45 and 11.45. And now, please, the lady with priority rights, I presume.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr President. And with your permission, I'd like to ask for another 30 minutes' break for a KSČM club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. This makes 50 minutes for the club KSČM today, and therefore I have nothing left but to announce a continuation break until 12.00 hours. Then perhaps we'll continue. Excuse me, I'll make it clear by 11:51.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue. Before summing up the proposals on the agenda of the meeting, Vice-President Filip has yet to report to me that he would like to speak on this. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I apologize. I submitted a proposal to complete the agenda for the meeting, and then I found that the specific press did not have a deadline nor was the deadline shortened between second and third readings, so I am withdrawing my proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u24	Okay, thank you. That's the withdrawal of the proposal. So if no one else is on the agenda, I'm going to call my colleagues into the hall and sum up the proposals and we're going to vote. Several suggestions were made. First of all, it's the inclusion of a new exit point. We will vote first, purely on the agenda of the meeting. Then there are two different suggestions whether to include him as the first or second item of this meeting. These were expressed in this order, so we would vote on them in this order. I think the process is clear. I'll wait for all my colleagues to settle down. There's also an application for check-out, so I checked you out. Please log in with your cards again. Okay, there's a request that we move slowly, that colleagues are still coming. However, we have enough of the concession. I can still see my colleagues coming. I will repeat for those who arrived later that we will now vote on the show. Vice-President Filip has withdrawn his proposal, so first we will vote only on the inclusion of the End of Emergency Point and then whether we will include him as the first or second item of this meeting, as the proposals were. If we didn't approve either of them, then that point is finally included. Looks like everyone here really wants to be here. Colleagues are still coming. I'd like to ask them for sufficient speed. I will repeat for those who have just arrived, we will vote on the agenda, respectively. on proposals for its amendment. First, about placing a new exit point, then whether it's going to be the first or the second. The meeting as a whole, as appropriate. I think everything is clear and I can start the vote. We will vote on the inclusion of a new exit point. I've started voting number three. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 3 includes 165 Members and Members of Parliament, for 80, against 48. The motion was not accepted. The chairman's going to check the vote, so we'll wait. [[Stanjura]] President Jurečka to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u25	Hello. I voted in favour, I'm on drugs, and I'm late. I'm making a motion to challenge the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u26	Okay, that's a suggestion. I'll wait and see if the Prime Minister has anything to add. [[Stanjura]] It doesn't look like it. We therefore have an objection to the vote. We will therefore vote on the objection. I am opening the vote on the objection to the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 4 there are 168 Members, 169 Members finally, 168 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we're going to repeat our third vote. It is therefore a vote on the inclusion of the End of Emergency Point. I've started voting number five. I'm asking who's up for a new point. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 5 includes 169 Members and Members, for 87, against 61. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on whether to place this point firmly first, second or nowhere. So first, the vote on solid inclusion is the first point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's first in line for a solid assignment. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 6 includes 169 Members and Members, for 23, against 10. So we didn't place the point first. Then there is the proposal to include this point of termination of emergency as the second point. We will vote now. Initiating vote number seven. I'm asking who's up for the second point. Who's against it? Thank you. The vote number 7 includes 169 Members and Members, for 82, against 8. The motion was not accepted. In that case, we have this item in the meeting, but it does not have a fixed point. That was all the suggestions. Vice-President Okamura with priority rights before we vote on the approval of the agenda. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u27	Ladies and gentlemen, well, I must say that I see an incredible alibi on the part of the KSČM. Because we're going to put a point here that canceling the emergency vote after the SPD proposal and also proposing it to the ODS, and then voting for it to pass. And if we're going to place it firmly, then the KSČM, which said it supports the cancellation of the emergency situation, now a part of its Members have abstained and a few votes have not passed so that we can vote on it today. Well, don't be mad at me, this is an incredible situation! So when do you want to vote on it, if not today? Well, as a final point, that's what we need to figure out. When again? We've got so many tough points here today, it could be at midnight again, or it could be God knows when! I know it's listed there as the last point, but I also know how it ends really! So you don't have to tell me the last point here today. This is Minister Hamáček calling out to me - I know how it works here. So that's why I'm saying, I don't understand this KSČM vote now, because when you repeatedly say in the media that you want to interrupt an unconstitutional emergency situation, now that we're gonna vote on it, I don't think three votes are gonna go away right now. I really don't understand! And it turns out that we're gonna be here at 11:00 or 10:00, and we're gonna say, "Hey, we're gonna go," or there's usually gonna be no more votes here. Well, I don't like it that way, I'm telling you. So, look, either we're serious about this and you're serious about this, KSČM MP, so let's really put it here. If the first point didn't pass, then that's the second point. Let's vote this out clearly in front of the public, face it, and normally, let's put this place in order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u28	We also voted on the second point, and it also failed. So the point is in today's meeting. I was given priority rights by Vice-President Filip, then SPD President Radim Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very brief. I don't care what time the vote's gonna be, 'cause it's been going on since Monday. And if we vote at 11:00, 12:00 or 10:00 p.m., I don't care. I have written my fundamental position on this, which was shared in the media yesterday. I'm not ashamed of it. And I think I'll defend it at any hour. And I would not like us to make this a political gown among the parliamentary parties. Either we behave here as Members and we will ensure that we maintain the parliamentary character of the Czech Republic, or we will present ourselves here on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u30	President Radim Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u31	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to quote one paragraph from the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, where it is clearly stated in paragraph 109m of paragraph 2 that if Members come forward with a proposal to abolish the emergency situation, then to discuss the proposal under paragraph 2. The President of the House shall immediately convene a meeting of the House. If a meeting of the House is already held - which is our state today - the discussion of the proposal is to be placed on its agenda. So this is definitely not a priority. And I would like legislation to tell us what is priority and to follow the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u32	We were discussing this at the beginning when proposals were being made to change the agenda of this meeting. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I must strongly reject, on behalf of the KSČM MP, the attack that took place here in the direction of Mr Okamura against our club. We're not headless. We're responsible. And if we have something on the agenda that will replace the current emergency, and that is the pandemic law, although I may not agree with it, but I have to create space, if I am responsible, to create space to discuss it. And I can vote quietly at two o'clock in the morning. It's our responsibility to be here to work here and not think we're gonna go home by 7:30. So I ask you nicely, KSČM is a party that is completely responsible, taking into account those groups of citizens who feel threatened by the pandemic, who, for example, have people within their families who are in a very risky state. And I don't think we can let them go. At the same time, however, we are prepared - and we have also shown in recent weeks that we are serious about this - to adequately release the situation so that children can go to school so that people can go to work and that the economy does not choke completely. I think that this is a balanced position, an opinion that deals with the views of most citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's how we're acting now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u34	Thank you. I will just point out that the day ends at nine o'clock normally and for discussing this point, which we are discussing, never. And now, therefore, the President with priority rights and then Vice-President Okamura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u35	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to repeat what I said at the time when I was in charge of the meeting, when I quoted that Section 109m para. 1 (d) that the Rules of Procedure do not remember the form of the proposal. And following that paragraph, I asked the diaper whether it would agree that we would proceed by putting that item in the vote on the agenda. No one objected. We will probably have to fix this in the future with some amendment to the Rules of Procedure. But now the House has decided to be a souvenir, treats it like a common design, and has classified it as the fourth. So I didn't leave it up to myself, but we talked about it around 11:00, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u36	Yes. I saw Vice-President Okamura first, then Mr. Chairman of the SPD Fiala Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u37	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Well, if my speech, Prime Minister Kováčik, was understood as an attack, I certainly didn't want to attack. I'm saying it here. What a misunderstanding. I didn't mean to attack at all. I just wanted to end the emergency. So if that's what it sounded like, it shouldn't have come out that way. I wouldn't want it to sound like that on my part. It was purely that I would like to end it, vote on it. And, of course, the appeal on my part may have been more emphatic, but it's true. So don't think of it as an attack. It's not like that. It was more like starting a substantive discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u38	We still have to vote on the agenda for this meeting. Mr. Chairman of the SPD Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u39	I listened carefully to the President of the House of Vondráček. I understand that the House is a souvenir. I understand she made that decision with her vote. However, I still fear that the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, could be violated by the House's failure to put this matter first, as stated in Section 109. And if she didn't put her first, there's a pretty good chance that we won't vote on the emergency situation today because you have a pandemic law, you have a budget, the budget will be very long, and the meeting day ends at 21:00. So I'm convinced that the emergency isn't going to happen. I'm just pointing it out. I draw attention to the legislation. And I would like her to tell us during the day, during some time, if we are not in violation - I would point out - if we are not in breach of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u40	I agree that the day normally ends at 21 o'clock, but according to § 109m para. The provisions of these Rules shall not apply. So the day of the hearing just doesn't stop to discuss this point. We'll be here until we discuss it or until the House decides it's gonna break. Please, Chairman Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u41	Guys, I think it's really necessary to clarify the word 'preferably', because we can't wait here all day for when we have the Rules of Procedure Act, this is the Constitution, and now I really want to ask legislation not to during the day, but to give priority, therefore, if it would give an opinion within half an hour, what that means first. So if I may, in half an hour or so, simply from the position that I am in charge of the House, ask that it be delivered here to the hands of the President of the House... [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Interpretation - yes, yes, Professor Válková for ano, I am glad that you agree with that, too. [[A commotion in the hall.]] So the interpretation, the interpretation - who other than the professor should give the term exactly legally. So I'd ask you in half an hour if you can - it's not a break, I'm not taking a break - but within half an hour if the President of the House of Vondráček, if you agree, can get an interpretation from the legislation, which means priority. Because it doesn't feel like it's 9:00 in the evening. Don't be mad at me. So thank you. Then I would ask if the President of the House could introduce the Chamber of Deputies to the interpretation of what it is, in fact, a priority, because it is a serious matter to discuss the abolition of the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u42	Okay. That's a proposal we can't solve here. The authorities of the House and the Office of the House have recorded it. I believe they'll deal with him. We should therefore now get to the approval of the agenda for this meeting, as we voted for it, that is to say, supplemented by that one point. I believe that all Members are in their seats. But I see some in the foyer, so I'm gonna call them after all. I don't know if there's a check-out request. I believe not. I believe that everyone who wants to vote is present. So we will vote on the approval of the agenda for this meeting as it was presented on the invitation and as it was supplemented by a new item. Initiating vote number eight. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 8, 170 Members of Parliament and Members are logged in, for 146, against 3. The draft agenda has therefore been approved and we will follow the approved agenda. [[12.10 hours]] As the first point we have included a point in the Government's draft law on emergency measures in the epidemic of COVID-19 disease and on the amendment of some related laws. This is the House press 1158, which is presented in a short hearing, so before it is discussed we would be in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the examination of that draft law were met in a short hearing. I am opening up a debate on this, i.e. whether the conditions for a short hearing are met. I don't see anybody... Mr. Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u43	[[He's talking without a drape.]] Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. For the purpose of discussing this law in an emergency state, not all conditions have been met. It is such an important law that we cannot discuss very quickly and in an accelerated procedure. I ask you not to support this, because this is Pandořin's box, which we are opening up to the future hygienic totalitarianism within the Czech Republic. It is not possible to approve this law in an accelerated procedure without betraying your constituents who put you in this Chamber of Deputies. None of you, none of us here has a mandate from our constituents to impose such responsibilities on them, to impose on them the possibility that sooner or later someone is amending this law, to adjust it in their own way, to COVIDA-19, to COVID-21, COVID-22, COVID-35, and to close us here at any time based on the decision of one man for life in an epidemiological camp. So please don't vote for this law to be approved in a short trial because it's immoral, it's wrong, and it's an attack on your constituents, it's an attack on the people who put you in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u44	I will request the cleaning of the counter, unless the Member wishes to step into the contaminated area. [[A request from the diaper for the disinfection of the rhetorical counter.]] I'm interrupting the House meeting for five minutes. [[Voices from the O.R.]] Or a minute. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Three minutes, 12.15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u45	Have a nice afternoon. The break is over, so we'll continue. The debate is open. On a factual note, I have the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. And then, with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala is preparing himself. [[A lot of noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I'll ask for peace in the courtroom. Mr. Chairman, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u46	Thank you for the floor. I will only respond with one remark to Mr. Volný's performance. The only attack here in the House is that you don't carry protective equipment here, you sit right next to us, and you threaten us as in the Slovak Parliament, the fascists spread the covid and infected other Members. So if we go to our grandmothers and grandfathers after that, we're gonna threaten them because you're being irresponsible. That's something I absolutely refuse. Therefore, if this continues and there will be a breakdown of the state on live air, where the state is unable to enforce the law even on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I think we should approve a change in the seating order. We have an empty gallery for the public and you should sit there behind the glass, you talk there, you'll sit there at the gallery, you'll have plenty of space, you can squeal there all you want, you won't be threatening anyone, we'll put a button in there and you can implement your political program there. But I don't think you should do it here in the presence of other colleagues! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u47	With a factual remark, Mr Lubomír Volný is registered. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u48	Through the President, my colleague, if you have a problem with someone spreading infectious disease around here, ask the Prime Minister to be quarantined for two weeks because he has met a sick person with symptoms and it is shown that vaccination does not protect against infection. So here's a guy who's supposed to be quarantined, and he's not in quarantine, and that doesn't bother you for some mysterious reason. And secondly, please, you want to impose compulsory testing on children, so be so kind as to impose mandatory testing on Members if you want me to wear a drape. And I'm saying here publicly that if we put in place mandatory testing before every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, publicly, to set an example for people and stick those sticks up my nose, I'm gonna stick them up my nose for these people and start wearing a mask. Stop being hypocrites. You impose various restrictions on the nation, bans, now you just want to approve the totalitarian law, and yourself, you are not setting an example! You don't wear drapes, you wear them under your nose, every moment I meet someone, they take it off in the foyer. You're lying, you're cheating. Approval of mandatory testing of all Members before each meeting of the Chamber of Deputies! I'm gonna test myself, and then I'm gonna wear drapes. Otherwise, you're just hypocrites, cheaters and liars!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u49	Mr Ondřej Profant will now make a point of fact. The chairman of the SPD is still prepared by Radim Fiala. Ambassador, please, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u50	Thank you for the floor. A large part of the members of the Pirate Party today have been on antigen tests because we consider it important to set an example, for information to Mr Volný through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u51	Another factual point, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr Lubomír Volný shall be prepared for a factual remark. There. [[Member Stanjura is coming to the President.]] I have been alerted by the chairman of the ODS club Zbyněk Stanjura, and I just point out to Members that this is a debate on whether or not we are considering whether or not the conditions for discussing the amendment to the draft law are in short proceedings. The debate on the law itself will only follow. So I will repeat my question again, of course I will allow you to speak, but please, the question is that we have to assess whether the conditions for discussing the above bill are in the shortened negotiations. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u52	Yes, Mr Stanjuro through Mr President. I'm not talking about the subject. I'm just going to ask if we know the result of how many of us colleagues were tested antigenically this morning and how many were positive. I've heard the information that at least two positives have been. So I'm asking if we're gonna follow the law here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u53	Another factual point, Mr Lubomír Volný. Please turn your cell phones down, if you don't mind. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u54	No, there are no reasons to discuss this law in an emergency regime, because it is a law that will affect many generations, stay in our legal order for a long time and can affect a lot of things. And as for the testing, I don't care about some sort of antigenic private testing somewhere, who knows where. You want our kids to do it publicly, you want a lot of people to do it, you want that stick up your nose. So let's be fair. We want to force 1 million 250,000 children in this country to stick sticks in their noses, because spit tests, we don't have the capacity, so let's set an example. The closet on the square, in that closet publicly every MP peed in the nose and after the result of the test the entrance to the building. Everything else is a lie, fraud, hypocrisy! You want the citizens to suffer, so suffer with them! If you want to burn, you have to light it. Anyone who wants to light a fire has to burn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-000-000.u55	So, I've got... Now, with priority rights, President of the ODS Radim Fiala Club, sorry, Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club. This is an application for a general debate. So then I have a member of Václav Klaus here. It's not for the need. So is anyone still applying for an assessment as to whether we should vote on a legislative emergency? He's not reporting. So if no one else applies to this first type of debate, we will proceed to the vote. I shall make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies notes that there continue to be conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on emergency measures for disease COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain related laws, the House's press 1158, in a short hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number nine. 167 Members registered, for 133, against 21. The motion for a resolution has been approved. So now I'm opening
