ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u1	2. Government Bill on the Emergency Contribution of Employees in the Quarantine Order /House print 50/ - shortened negotiations The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u2	Thank you, Madam President, dear legislators, so today for the second time. Let me briefly remind you of the parameters of the so-called isolation device, which means an extraordinary contribution in isolation or quarantine. The allowance is provided for a maximum period of 14 calendar days up to CZK 370 per day. The sum of the allowance and remuneration shall not exceed 90 per cent of the average salary of the employee concerned. If so, the contribution will be reduced. All who are insured under social insurance will also benefit from the allowance. The employer shall deduct the allowance from the premiums paid. He shall be entitled within three months at the latest. Compared to the spring 2021, people can get the tape when they return from abroad. With regard to the evaluation or evaluation of the effectiveness of the so-called isolation device, it no doubt worked, making people more quarantined. In order to evaluate this operation, we use the criterion of the ratio of quarantine and the proportion of isolation versus infected in the given period. It's very clear, and now just a few numbers, that the isola had a major contribution to taming the pandemic. In January and February, when this instrument did not work, the proportion of the infected versus those in quarantine and isolation was 56 percent and drew on sick leave. From March it was 62 percent, in April 63 percent, in May 73 percent and in June even 92 percent. In September, October and November of this year, when the isola was not working, it was 54 percent, in October 34 percent, in November 36 percent. So I'm hoping that the duct tape will start working again. [[15.10 hours]] The great charm of this instrument is that, if they are not infected, no additional costs arise for the state budget. For your information, the tape helps the most medium-income layer. For example, in March of this year, the average wage of employees with 23 308 crowns was. We're talking about a net amount. As far as some general evaluation is concerned, thanks to the duct tape, 30,000 people a month went into quarantine on average compared to a hypothetical state without an isolation device, which is also a very significant number. If we were to divide the figure into months, compared to the expectations, 10 percent more people were quarantined in March, 13 percent in April, 31 percent in May and so on. As regards the opinion of experts, according to the expert opinion of the MeSES Group, the isola is an inexpensive tool for controlling pandemics. Its implementation is assessed as effective. Employees do not have to submit an application for aid, only inform employers that they are infected, within a disability, the employer does not undergo any administratively complex process, only deducts the contribution from the contributions. Total was provided in 363,000 cases during the spring months! As far as budgetary costs are concerned, if I should go again after months, as the pandemic peaked, and of course budget costs were rising, so in March this year it was CZK 647 million, in April 311, in May CZK 10.6.9 million, and in June it was only CZK 29,8 million. That means, when there is no contagion, costs don't arise. So much for this bill, everything. And I beg you, honourable Members, to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for presenting the proposal. And now, the Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, has discussed it and has adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 50/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jan Bauer, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, in general I will no longer say anything about the parameters of the isolationist, because I think that all the relevant information here has been heard from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Therefore, let me just inform you that this House's press was dealt with by the Social Policy Committee this morning. We have adopted a resolution that you all have before you. Firstly, we propose that a general debate be held, for further debate to be held, for another one we propose that the negotiations on this bill be concluded no later than 19 o'clock today, and fourthly - and this is the key - we recommend to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's proposal for a special contribution law by employees in the context of the quarantine ordered, as amended by these amendments. They are small and there are two - first in § 1 para. Article 2 (2) "30 June 2002" is replaced by "28 February 2002" and "30 November 2021" is replaced by "30 November 2021." [[Right 2022]] [[Right 2022]] And lastly, in this resolution, I have been empowered to introduce you to this resolution, which I am now doing. I would just like to say briefly what is going on in the context of the two minor amendments. Firstly, we propose to reduce the effectiveness of the proposal from the original term 30. 6. 2022 for the new 28 February 2022 so that this measure can be assessed and, where appropriate, presented in a new, modified form, and secondly, we propose at least partially to limit the proposed retroactive effect of this law, namely 31. 10. 2021 new at 30. 11. 2021. This measure, the so-called isola, should primarily have a motivational function and act in the future. This was the aim of the first short amendment. And for another, unlike the increase in the infirmary, which we discussed at the previous point, which is a compensatory measure, and the retroactive effect here is understandable. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I would just ask you, colleagues and colleagues, if your colleague here is speaking at the microphone, to lower your voices a little, or to move their actions into the front room, because I think that some colleagues do not hear what the rapporteur says, and I confess that I do not hear much either. Thank you for understanding. I will now engage, we will vote and decide whether we will hold a general debate. We will wait a little longer for colleagues and colleagues to arrive from the lobby so that we can vote. I will just repeat that we will vote on whether we will have a general debate. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 8, 180 Members and Members signed up, for 163, against no one. [[The motion was accepted.]] We have decided to hold a general debate, which I am now opening. This debate is attended by Mrs Lucie Šafránková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to introduce you to today for the second time to the opinion of our SPD MP on the proposal for an extraordinary contribution to the staff member in quarantine, i.e. re-establishing an extraordinary contribution to the staff in quarantine. Our MP supports the idea of an extraordinary contribution to employees in quarantine or isolation, as well as this proposal, as it did this spring. It is also important for us that the costs incurred for these contributions will be able to be deducted from the social insurance that the state pays, which we have also demanded and enforced at a time when this legislation was adopted for the first time, and which is precisely in line with our long-term position in our movement, so that the costs of government restrictive measures and obligations associated with them are borne not only by citizens, businessmen, employees and employers, but, in order to bear these costs, it is best paid or compensated in full. But there are still large reserves in many respects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Madame. I ask, is there still an interest in the speech in the general debate? It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. Do I ask the final words? Madam Secretary is not interested, the rapporteur obviously is not. Thank you. No proposals have been tabled, which we should decide by vote. [[15.20 hours]] And now we will open the debate in detail. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. No one has claimed the floor, and if no one calls for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. Do I ask the final words? Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur are interested. Therefore, we do not now have the proposals that we would have to vote on, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. And now we should decide how we are going to proceed, because an amendment has been tabled, and we therefore need to process and make amendments in writing. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs, we will interrupt this item and continue with the following item, second reading, and the third reading will therefore take place after the next item has been discussed and amendments will be prepared in writing. Now, before we move on to item number 3, before we discuss the Government Bill on Compensation Bonus for 2022, the House Press 51, the shortened negotiations, we would, in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. If no one signs up for the debate, I will conclude the debate and proceed to the vote. I will resign and make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on the compensation bonus for 2022, House's press 51, in a short hearing.' I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 9, 182 Members and Members signed up, for 168, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now I'm opening point number
