ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u1	10. Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws / House printing 1143/ - second reading I'll open it, and the MP claims priority rights for the club YES. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, I would like to return to the 187 vote, when Mr Výborný questioned the vote on the grounds that he had a vote in favour and abstained on his own at the junk. I requested a record from the House, a video where clearly Mr Výborný votes with his hand in favour, and it is visible on the record, so I warn the House that I will hand this over to the mandate and immune committee, so that the credibility of these words of Mr Výborný may be questioned or it has been said that he voted correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u3	Thank you. And now we will continue the negotiations. The Minister also wants to speak with priority rights. I'm sure I'll let her do it. Madam Secretary, are you applying now or to this bill for debate? [[The secretary is signaling.]] To this law for debate, okay. In that case, Mrs Pastuchová, as the appellant, now has the opportunity to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Since we have really little time to pass on the third reading, I would ask very much that we be able to discuss this within 18 hours, and therefore I will not be performing long. I just want to say that the Social Services Act - it's been waiting for a really, really long time. Unfortunately, he wasn't presented to us. It was not submitted because there was no agreement on it, so we decided to propose this law ourselves. We got out of it when I say this, only things that really match both providers and the Association of Regions, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs itself gave us a positive opinion on this, but also the government. And actually, after some time, when this House press was lying down or after the first reading, I am glad that one more member club joined the comprehensive amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate. I would probably put an end to this opening, and I really would ask all of you, if you just have a little will to help providers and all of us in social services during this parliamentary term, and I believe that this is a consensus across when we are already signed by seven parliamentary clubs to shorten our performance so that we can make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u5	Thank you. Mr Hájek cancels his apology. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House press 1143/2, and I ask that the rapporteur of this committee take the floor and inform us of the committee's discussion, possibly justifying amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u6	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present the resolution of the Social Policy Committee No 243 of the 78th meeting of 11 May 2021 on the proposal by Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafářová, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws, House press 1143: "After the justification of the representative of the group of petitioners, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mr David Kasal's report and after the debate of the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic give its consent to a proposal by Members amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws, House press 1143, as amended by this comprehensive amendment; II. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u7	Now she was the first to report to the debate which I am opening at the moment, Minister Maláčová, after further registration. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposed regulation is to optimise, stabilise and clarify and simplify the social services system, and to reduce the administrative burden. The proposal regulates the area of quality of social services and tries to make systemic changes in the area of optimization of procedures for obtaining authorisation to provide social services. The proposed regulation, which is a Member's initiative, combines some of the existing social services facilities into a new facility, which is called Home's Social Welfare, thus allowing for a remote form of provision of social services. New basic services are also being created or existing services are being specified. The data provided by the registrant and the introduction of new competences of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the implementation of the register of social services providers, which will continue to be kept in electronic form. The proposal also introduces a valuation mechanism to determine maximum payments for the provision of social services. The proposal is based on the draft law amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, which was submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on 30 November 2020. Although this is not a complex modification of the social services system, I agree with the principles contained in the bill, but I would like to point out that I will then have complaints about Mrs Pastuchová's comprehensive amendment, which I will immediately describe. At this point, however, I must also draw attention to some shortcomings that would be appropriate to address in the legislative process. Specifically, it is first of all a proposed modification of the types of social services, which is incomplete, does not address a number of already unidentified shortcomings in current practice and is not thus treated with the necessary changes to ensure the needs of vulnerable persons and carers. Secondly, it is an adjustment to the quality of social services. The proposal does not contain any related adjustment of the provider's obligations, definition of the quality of social services and subject matter of inspection. The proposal neglects this area and focuses only on the subject of the qualifications of inspectors, which, in our view, is not sufficient. Thirdly, the appellant did not include in the law the possibility of complaining. I'm just gonna point out these cases from the last few months and years that are really serious. I guess I don't have to mention the term slunečnice in front of everyone. Furthermore, the obligation of social service providers to protect and respect the privacy, dignity and integrity of persons to whom social services are provided, or the treatment of offences in connection with measures limiting movement. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has worked together to remedy these shortcomings in this regard to prepare the documents for some amendments that I would like to support. As far as Mrs Pastuchová's comprehensive amendment is concerned, I would like to draw attention to what is wrong in our view, apart from technical errors, which are, in particular, a legislative nature. First of all, it's a merger of personal assistance with the care service. Then they are carers who are included in inappropriate social services, and the comprehensive amendment does not address the necessary changes in the area of funding. Then it's an increase in the payment order by 20 percent. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs suggested 12 not to be a huge leap for social services clients. Furthermore, the comprehensive amendment does not introduce a personnel standard, it does not address quality. There are no regular inspections, once every five years for each service. That's what I think is crucial, too. So for this reason, I support the proposal proposed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. What I do not support is Mrs Pastuchová's comprehensive amendment for the reasons already said. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u9	Thank you and we will therefore continue the debate now. As the first Member of Parliament, Mr Brzobohatá, then Mr Běhounek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly present to you our amendment, which we tabled with colleague Andrea Babišová, which is being led as a House document under number 8363. The aim of this amendment is to remove the statutory authorisation of the MPSV to issue material-technical conditions in the form of a decree. The reason for this is, in particular, in the past, the thesis of these material-technical conditions prohibiting, inter alia, the coexistence of social services in the immediate vicinity with a view to preventing the segregation of clients of social services. However, I consider the prohibition of tolerance of social services in the immediate vicinity to be inadmissible together with the co-president. This is an unsolved problem, which creates problems rather new and significantly more serious. The removal of the Ministry's legal authorisation to issue material-technical conditions will thus create a time-frame for a thorough discussion of material-technical conditions with the professional public and its quality preparation in the next parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u11	Good evening, dear colleagues. Next in the debate will be Mr Jiří Běhounek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u12	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, hello. Let me put forward three amendments to the comprehensive amendment, House press 1143/2. The first amendment is my colleague Gajdůšková and my colleague Roman Sklenák and concerns, in short, the financing of social services. With the adoption and effectiveness of the Social Services Act from 1. 1. 2007 the principle of multi-source financing is applied. In 2014 and 2019 the volume of subsidies for social services from the state budget increased by more than 118 percent from 7.7 billion in 2014 to 16.79 billion in 2019. Direct subsidies from the Ministry accounted for 29 per cent of the financing of social services, two fifths of the additional contribution to care, 21 per cent of the users' own reimbursement, 10 per cent of the regions and 7 per cent of the municipalities. The problem is that current legislation does not provide for deadlines within which substantial steps should be taken for the grant management of individual regions towards social service providers. The state budget funds have been allocated to individual regions in accordance with the annex to the Act by a so-called indicative number since 2015, and the regions subsequently redistribute the funds within their separate scope to individual social service providers, which the region will include in the regional network of providers. This subsidiarity method of redistribution is intended to ensure that the region can map citizens' needs on its territory better and more closely and to ensure sufficient capacity for social services. [[17.30 hours]] But the fundamental problem is that the reference number, according to which funds are distributed, does not reflect and cannot reflect the real need in a given territory. In view of the fact that, together with the change in the financing of social services, the Annex to the Act repeals the Amount of the Region's percentage of the total annual amount of funds earmarked in the State budget to support social services for the financial year in question, it is necessary to completely rephrase the wording of § 101a para. 4. In the context of the simplification of the subsidy procedure, it will be necessary to release an interim overview sent to the MPSV regions and start to implement new legislation so that the subsidy from the MPSV is paid in one instalment by 15 March. All regions and all providers dealt with problems each year with the fact that payouts were delayed. The draft law and this amendment envisages entitlement to a subsidy, the so-called mandatory expenditure of the state budget, taking into account the need to provide at least a framework form of multiannual funding, so it is actually proposed to reverse the sequence of subsidy proceedings that the regions would obtain a comprehensive requirement from the general requirement of social service providers and then submit to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Within the framework of the financing of social services, it is necessary to introduce a mandatory subsidy not only for social services financed by the regions and the city of Prague, but also for social services financed by the MPSV in support of social services with over-regional and national application. The subsidy allocated from the State budget to the social services sector may increase by a maximum of 10 per cent year on the basis of this amendment. This is due to continuity and efficiency will be postponed for one year in such a way that applications for subsidies submitted for a year earlier. Since the effectiveness of the amendment is proposed to 1. 1. 2022, applications for grants will be submitted in the autumn of 2021. This means that it is necessary to know the real effects of this change in the course of June of this year to negotiate the draft state budget, which means that it is unrealistic to do so. Therefore, the reference year 2020 has been established and we should calculate this in this situation. The individual regions have told their concerns that the determination of 10 per cent of the increase will fix the current state of the reference numbers, and the regions fundamentally disagree and demand their cancellation. It is therefore proposed that for the first year of entry into force, the benchmark based on the indicative number should not be the real requirement of each social service provider. There's an attachment to the material, a table I won't read, and a model example at the same time. Briefly a summary of the thesis of the implementing regulation that would be here. This would mean that funds can only be drawn on expenditure relating to the calendar year in question for which the subsidy is granted. There is a tax name here, which funds cannot be drawn from the subsidy to what, what other steps and purchases cannot be drawn on. The third principle in this material is the financing of social services as multi-source. In determining the amount of the subsidy, account shall be taken of the remuneration of users for the basic activities of the social service and the remuneration of health insurance for the provision of health care in the case of the services referred to in Section 36 of the Social Services Act. The method of taking account of payments from users, health insurance payments and transfers granted from the budgets of self-governments and other sources when determining the amount of the subsidy shall be determined by the subsidy provider when declaring the relevant subsidy procedure for the calendar year concerned. In principle, number 4 is said that this aid must be declared by 30 June of the previous year in which the subsidy is to be paid. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will transfer the grant granted, as has been said, in one payment until 15 March and individual negotiations may be possible in exceptional cases. There is an exhaustive overview of the drawing of the subsidy and its communication. This is expected to be used for the first time in 2023. This amendment has number 8509 and I will enter into a detailed debate with its number. Let me now propose another amendment to the House of Press 1143/2, as an absent colleague of Antonín Staněk, and this is an amendment concerning the assessment of material-technical conditions and personnel equipment corresponding to the kind of social services provided. Since it has not been clearly defined since 2007, what evidence is necessary to submit as a condition for registration of a social service and under what conditions this is considered to be fulfilled, it is proposed that very significant unjustified differences be eliminated between providers and individual regions. They will be laid down by implementing legislation and there will be a clear resolution as to what conditions are required of the provider of which services. Transitional provisions address the fulfilment of material-technical conditions and the fulfilment of material-technical conditions is calculated not only for newly registered services, i.e. after the proposed amendment becomes effective, but also for services already registered. In order to adapt, a deadline is proposed for demonstrating the fulfilment of a 10-year material-technical standard for construction-technical modifications requiring modifications and building permits and five years for other conditions laid down in the Implementing Regulation. The deadline of 10 years is chosen because adjustments can be financially demanding and organized and complexly prepared. The financial impacts assume that the funds of the European Union or the National Recovery Plan or funds from the budget of the Czech Republic will be used. This amendment by my colleague Staněk is included in the system under document number 8532 and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. And the last amendment by my person, my colleague Gajdůšková and my colleague Sklenák is an amendment to the comprehensive amendment by the Social Policy Committee No 1143/2, which has the ambition that it is a specification of the conditions for registration in the field of personal provision of social services. The requirement of practice, statistical outputs and data evaluated by each reported system and analysis is based on the fact that unfortunately we do not have a personnel standard and therefore various social services are equipped differently and the aim is to ensure the operation and safety of clients of the service according to the individual classification as well. This is not about securing specific persons or individual clients, but about the extent of the quality that should be determined as a condition of the process for granting a grant authorisation. The transitional provision provides for a period of six years from the date of application of this Act, so that existing social service providers are obliged to fulfil the minimum conditions of employment under Act No. 108/2006, as amended by the entry into force of the new Act, as submitted. This amendment has a document number of 8510 and I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u13	I also thank you, and the next one will be Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, Mrs Olga Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, as the rapporteur has already said here, the proposal came out of the original government bill with the fact that it is therefore not complete as it should be. He only brought up those matters that the petitioners considered important and worthy of discussion and acceptance during this term and as soon as possible. This need has been consulted mostly with the Association of Social Services Providers and from this point of view, the proposal is also largely formulated. That's not bad, of course. We need effective, effective, modern social services that provide what people need. And at least in the Zlín Region, the ageing of the population is one of the biggest problems, so we really need to create the conditions for everyone, if they get into trouble, whether health care or simply needs social care of any kind, so they get the care, whether within social services or field services or the support of a family who wants to take care of it. In that regard, I'm sure it's good. After all, I was looking at the whole proposal more from the point of view of clients or those who are consumers of social services, which are social services, and now I use the word in the broadest sense, they take care of. I therefore submit that I have three amendments prepared which have one common denominator in common, and that is that they look at the matter more from the point of view of those in need of social care. The first amendment concerns the extension of social work. Social workers help elderly people, disabled people, families with children or people in need. It is an activity that is often hidden for the media, perhaps most of you invisible, but without social workers, these people would often not receive help or advice. I think and hope that even most of us here in the House know that one of the basic purposes why the municipalities were created is to provide assistance to their citizens. This has also proved to be true in this situation, and it is only to be remembered that this has been fulfilled by municipalities since the Middle Ages. Perhaps on this occasion you will remember concepts such as home law, municipal pastries and so on. Today, however, social work is primarily provided in large, so-called Troika municipalities, but sometimes it is far from the needy citizens. The reform or reorganisation was not good, when the social unions were transferred to the Troika communities. Therefore, I propose extending social work to the double municipal authorities, where social work is being carried out today under the law on aid in material distress. To unify this necessary work, it is appropriate to put social work into one law. At the same time, I propose that these authorities add only one new obligation to report to the regional authorities suspected illegal social services. Let us remember the horrible cases that have also been presented in media terms and are referred to as cruel traders in poverty. Unfortunately, these illegal services still arise despite the considerable activity of regional authorities, but also regional authorities need information from municipalities about these situations because they cannot act without this information and background. The second part of this amendment is more of a technical nature and concerns the acceleration and electronisation of the accreditation process of educational programmes at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the increase of the fee for accreditation by private earners from current CZK 1,000 to CZK 10,000. This fee, I remind you, has not been paid since 2007 and is also intended to promote the higher quality of these educational events. Another amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate concerned a change in the payment of social services. We have also discussed this several times. There was a line that the MPSV had and could have changed the payment order several times, the last time was in 2014. On the other hand, it should be noted, however, that the subsidy from the MPSV was increased by more than 300 per cent, from CZK 7 billion to CZK 21 billion. In the proposal we are discussing, the proposal that fragile seniors and disabled people, including their families, must be increased by 20 percent in return for residence services. But the question is, where is the money that, as I was saying, was raised in a relatively short period of time by actually 300 percent. I think that this too needs to be treated very and very sensitively. This was also the case with the management and representatives of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. The authors point out in this proposal that a quality lunch cannot be cooked for CZK 75. Yes, we can take it that way, but the state subsidizes social services, and the subsidy has increased by 300 percent, as I have already said. But I think it is necessary to respect the time shift and shift in food prices and other inputs. Between 2014 and 2020, inflation certainly occurred, but it was not by 20 percent, but it was really honestly recounted only by 12 percent. That is why I am proposing an amendment that really reflects the rate of inflation, and I would like to see it pass in this form, because it will be fair to both social service providers and consumers if they want social services clients from the most fragile and vulnerable people. The last amendment to which I will sign up in a detailed debate concerns the provision of social services and then assistance services. The existing legislation allows for different provision of social services in both specific types of social services, and although the legislation sounds similar and the social service is determined similar to the target group, partial services are substantial and therefore incompatible differences. In the case of care services, the client orders certain tasks to the extent that it corresponds to his agreement with the provider in the concluded contract for the provision of social services. The client doesn't choose a caretaker, but in agreement with the provider, such a choice is possible. [[17.50 hours]] In case of personal assistance, the situation is different. The personal assistant is in quotes controlled by the client. He chooses it and subsequently it is to ensure clearly specified assistance and support of the client in agreement with it. Definitely not operationally, here is the unit hour and hourly rate according to the actually consumed time. In the case of the merger of both services, as is originally in the present proposal, at the same time, there is a risk that one or the other type of merged service will prevail in practice, and specific assistance will not be possible for the client as he has been used to and needs. Here I considered it necessary to actually explain the difference and the reason why the amendment rejected this merger. Again it is a matter that was very and very pointed out mainly by the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. But I was also approached by people who were directly concerned - wheelchairs, people with disabilities - and they would be really unhappy if something like this were to happen and they would lose their assistants as they know them now, and the way they work with them, and the way they support them if they lose it. For these reasons, I propose in the amendment to leave the current state of affairs of providing both types of social services. The amendment still has other provisions. The proposal responds very well to the need to reduce the administrative and overall burden on providers who currently have more social services registered. It is a paragraph that was once again initiated by Mr. Václav Krása from the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. Specifically, this is a necessity of spatially and organisationally separate provision of social services to children under the age of 18, which require a specific approach. The last paragraph of this amendment falls to this legislative technical solution. I will sign up for the amendments, all of them with written reasons, in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u15	Thank you. With a factual point, Mr Vít Kaňkovský is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u16	Good evening. I would like to briefly respond to the honourable Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, through you, Mr Vice-President. Madame, you here repeatedly - and not only you, but also Minister Maláčová and Minister Schillerová - tell the mantra over and over again that in the last eight or nine years the subsidy to social services has been increased by 300 percent. I don't want to question it, it's true, it's true in absolute terms, but it never came out of your mouth or the mouth of both ministers, why that is. That money isn't going anywhere. Let's say what was the salary of the social services worker in 2013 and what he is at the moment, and let's say also how much care was provided in 2013, how much we increased the number of seniors who need social services both in the field and in the residential area. Let's say how the regions developed their social services, how they transformed their residential facilities, and we all know that's right. That means, it's also right that the subsidy went up three times, but that doesn't mean that the money was lost somewhere. social services need them, and we all know that we will be facing further increases if we want to maintain the quality of social services. That means, let's not say it as a giant credit. This is simply a logical development as our population grows old and as we all want to improve social services in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u17	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I dare to respond, by your means, to my truly esteemed colleague, Mr Kaňkovský. The increase in social services salaries seems logical to us. You said it was logical, but it was the great effort of Sobotkův's government and also of this government that wages grew. It's good, of course. We wanted it, we tried. We have sought to make social services better, no one is questioning it. But it's just a whole segment, it's a whole package and a jump increase in payments for clients, and especially for those individuals who are really in trouble, by 20 percent, it's just from their point of view really too much. That's why I propose the 12 percent. I am, of course, glad that the money for social services is and I agree with you that there will be a need to raise the money even more in the future. I was talking about our county, where the population is really getting very old.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u19	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský and his two minutes of factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u20	I just have a short response to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, through you. We're kind of spinning around here. We've been having this discussion here at first reading, and we've been holding it repeatedly on the Social Committee. At this point, we know that there will be no real increase in the approval of this bill, and it is still called a jumping increase. But it still doesn't say it the way it is - it's an increase in the maximum rate. It's not how it was thought, and it's not gonna be approved anyway. That means it wouldn't be a jump raise for every client. That's what we said from the start, and there's always the wrong version. It would not be a leap increase, it would be an increase in the maximum possible remuneration which, of the vast majority, social service providers would not have accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u21	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová will speak in the debate. Please note that at 6:00 p.m., I'm going to have to interrupt her performance because we have fixed voting points. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u22	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, there's no way we're gonna be able to negotiate this. I wished that the amendment to the Social Services Act could be discussed because if you read the justification for the comprehensive parliamentary amendment, I think you will see how many reservations there are explained and how much the benefits of the amendment are explained. I would like to stress that the Ministry has failed to prepare the necessary amendment to the Social Services Act. I'm sorry, but the negotiations with the regions, the providers were supposed to be done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For a number of other areas, we can say that it is necessary to be inter-ministerial, that it was simply not so easy to interact, but here it is the high-level agenda of the MPSV. And we are in a situation where, despite the fact that it has not been able to negotiate in this quite basic area of social services, things that are crucial for simplifying unnecessarily complex administrative procedures, which are crucial for long-term provision of quality services, despite giving up work prematurely, unfortunately I cannot name it any other way. I'd love to, but that's how I see it. Now, there's no reason to negotiate this thing that could be of major help. It is a position of informal carers, it is a promotion of the quality of the care service, which is not always what it should be, so as to highlight the very important aspects of personal assistance. It is also an amendment that would allow the administration to be reduced for providers, but would ensure individual care, individual access to different target groups, so that, of course, the highest possible priority is indeed respect for the needs of clients. Let me mention: there was also, for example, the possibility of socially therapeutic activities in asylum houses, namely the already mentioned increase in payments, which is simply needed because of inflation. [[18.00 hours]] To sum it up, it was a novel removing a few things from a proposal that negotiated but did not prepare the Ministry. It was a parliamentary response to this inability to arrange it. And unfortunately, it obviously ends with the fact that the D.O.D. hasn't dealt with this. I'm sorry, because it's gonna be bad for the providers, and, unfortunately, the clients of those services, even though I understand that there are some concerns -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u23	Madam, I'm sorry, it's 18 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u24	Last sentence. I recommend reading the justification for the comprehensive amendment. Most of the concerns are explained there, I think, to make it clear what's going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-005-010.u25	Thank you. I am interrupting this point, we are going to deal with firmly classified electoral points. The first one is
