ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u1	7. Proposal by Members of Lukáš Černohorský, Lenka Kozlová, Jakub Michálek, Ondřej Polanský, Ondřej Profant and others for the issue of the law on the protection of notifiers /house print 955/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 955/1. I prosit that Mr Lukáš Černohorský refer the proposal to the appellants. I have an additional apology. Apologies to Mr Jiří Mihola, today from 17:00 to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u2	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the Parliament's proposal for a law on the protection of notifiers, which was sent to you as House press 955 on 23. 7. 2020. First of all, I am pleased that the issue of the notifiers of the infringement has finally reached today's meeting and we will move a little further on the process of adopting a separate comprehensive legal standard which sets out clear rules for reporting possible infringements and introduces specific protection for notifiers against retaliatory measures, which often involve them in existential problems. At the same time, people who decide to report serious crimes save up to tens of billions of crowns. For example, in the famous case of ROP Northwest, the damage will rise to 14 billion crowns. The key documents in this case were delivered to CSIs by the notifier Leo Steiner, who then faced pressure and had to even change his job. Why is it really necessary to adopt a specific law to protect notifiers? The notifier can be virtually any one of us who gets into a situation where he is witness to some serious crime and is faced with an unpleasant decision whether he prefers to keep quiet about it, saving himself a number of inconveniences, or his conscience does not allow him to remain silent and decides to report it even though he risks many things. Such a notifier is often worried about his work, facing public dehonestation, bullying, and threats. The retaliatory steps are sometimes also directed towards his loved ones and may also be the destruction of the property of the notifier. Intimidating just takes many forms. All because the notifier decided to fulfill his moral and legal obligation. The State must therefore support those who witness a serious illegal activity and do not want to merely take this into account. Of course, there are also those whose motivation is not to protect public funds, sometimes they do so on the basis of a competitive struggle, revenge, or even those who deliberately report false information and thus commit a crime of slander. But they have to deal with all of this, and in some cases they can, with legislative proposals. Announcers are the unrepresentable helpers of the state in the fight against corruption, which is why the pirát have long advocated their protection and support. Their significance has not diminished even in today's conavir age, as there are still new cases of notifiers in connection with violations of government regulations in the fight against pandemics. That is why the government should try to enforce this law. The importance of the adoption of the law for the protection of notifiers also follows from the request of the European Commission, which seeks to standardise the rules for the protection of notifiers, and therefore issued a binding European directive in the autumn of 2019, which Member States have an obligation to incorporate into their national legislation by 17 December 2021 at the latest. Otherwise, sanctions may threaten the Czech Republic. Clearly, the next government will no longer have a choice, and this law will simply have to be adopted. But it is an unnecessary delay, which does not send a good signal to our citizens. A separate proposal for the protection of notifiers normally works in the European Union States and is introduced, for example, in Slovakia or Romania. [[17.50 hours]] More protection for notifiers, according to our intention, is to ensure the possibility of anonymous notification of infringements only with the indication of the address for service. The notifier shall subsequently be informed of the manner in which the complaint has been evaluated. This regulation expressly prohibits retaliation against the notifier, such as psychic pressure, public dehoness, bullying, special-purpose reassignment, or even loss of employment. Moreover, the protection concerns not only the notifier himself but also his loved ones or, for example, those involved in the preparation of the notification. The notifiers will also be provided with active support from an independent professional office, professional, Ombudsman's office. As part of its work, the Office will also communicate with individual investigators, evaluate notifications at individual offices, and lead the Panel on the Protection and Support of notifiers composed of representatives of NGOs, ministries, state prosecutors, academic communities and similarly providing advisory and educational activities. The advantage of the Ombudsman's involvement in the protection of notifiers is high independence, which is supported by trust from both the lay and professional public. The Ombudsman's office is currently equipped with a professional apparatus across the legal areas, which would thus ensure the possibility of a well-founded assessment of the relevance of the notification both provisionally and factually. In view of the consistency of the practice of receiving notifications and advisory activities, it is appropriate to combine and conduct methodological activities with one institution. If I am to compare this with the government proposal, which will be on the following two points, there is an agency established as an external body under the Ministry of Justice, which should be the recipient of individual notifications and at the same time provide guidance to notifiers. However, in the case of the Ministry, it is not possible to talk about an independent body. I also doubt that it would arouse confidence in the notifiers themselves, who would not be sufficiently protected or motivated to give their testimony in the hands of a politically managed authority. This solution is also criticized from the outset by anti-corruption organisations that have the following reservations about it. As a member, the Minister will always be directly linked to the political representation of the state, so confidence in its independent management of the notifiers' agenda will be automatically weakened. Trust plays a crucial role in the willingness to make relevant announcements. The Minister will decide on an appeal against the decision on an offence, so the contents of the file in the infringement proceedings will be informed directly by a member of the Government. This would significantly interfere with independence and reduce the confidence of the addressees of the standard. The Ministry of Justice, as the petitioner of legislative regulation, has an extensive erudicity in the issue of the protection of notifiers, but it does not have enough expertise across the legal system to be able to assess individual notifications in a qualified factual way. State employees responsible for the notifier's protection agenda will not be effectively protected against systematicisation and can thus be under pressure from the Ministry's political leadership. Simply put, notification of irregularities will only fulfil its purpose if the investigators of the evaluation notification are independent and, in particular, if confidence in relation to notifiers is built. Mr President, may I ask, can I at this time propose a merger of the debate with paragraphs 8 and 9? Or should I join the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u3	I think it must be heard in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u4	Well, in that case, I'm still applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u5	So I thank you and ask the rapporteur to take the floor, and this is for first reading, Mr Stanislav Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear members of the Government, let me also say, as rapporteur, very briefly, on the draft bill submitted, on the draft law of Parliament, press number 955, which is the same as the following press and concerns the protection of notifiers, particularly in the context of labour disputes. Although the proposal put forward could be said to be a positive attempt to implement the protection of persons notifying infringements, this proposal is completely contrary to the rules and completely ignores the coherence of existing legislation which already provides protection, as is apparent from the explanatory memorandum. [[unintelligible]] It is not at all addressed by any amendment of these laws following the envisaged proposal, nor in the explanatory memorandum is it mentioned whether or not the proposed proposal is in conflict with these laws. The authors mention in the explanatory memorandum that the draft law submitted is based on directives of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2019/1937 on whistleblowing, which is to be incorporated into national legislation by the end of 2021 at the latest, but this fact is not clear from the proposal submitted and therefore the transposition of the cited directive. Therefore, if the aim of the petitioner is to transport the directive of the European Union into the Czech legal system, the fact should be explicitly stated in the proposal and the text should be marked as a transposition and the difference and correlation table should also be presented - it is also missing. In this context, I draw attention to the fact that the Government in its opinion draws attention to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has already prepared such a bill concerning the protection of notifiers and submitted it to the international commentary procedure on 30 June 2020, before the Government's examination of the parliamentary bill was submitted. The Ministry has prepared a draft law on the protection of notifiers to the full extent then implements the said EU Directive 2019/1937 on the protection of persons who report infringements of Union law. At the same time as the draft law on the protection of notifiers, the Ministry of Justice also submitted a proposal for a explanatory wording of the amendment law, which governs others to the extent necessary, with the protection of notifiers related to legislation. These documents are in the commentary procedure and before the Government Legislative Council and the Government are discussed. In addition to this fact, there is a House press 799, a draft law on the protection of the notifiers of criminal offences against unauthorised sanctions by the employer and on the amendment of other related laws. The proposed proposal can therefore be assessed in whole as imperfect both factually and legislatively and in no way protects the identity of the notifier, since the established so-called investigator knows the notifier's identity, thus the protection of personal data within the meaning of GDPR is not fulfilled, even though the petitioners claim otherwise. It can then be fully identified with the reasons put forward by the Government in its negative opinion. In conclusion, I would like to say that I do not recommend the consent to be given in this opinion, but I will then say that proposal in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-103-01-007-007.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. The proposal has been made here, I have consulted it, it is not necessary to lecture it again, there has been a proposal to bring the debate together at paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. Once again, I've summoned all my colleagues, and we'll give them the opportunity to take their seats, and there's a motion to unsubscribe. I've checked you all out, please sign up with your cards again. We will vote to merge general debates on points 7, 8 and 9. So there's still another one coming... I think the number of votes has stabilized. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of bringing the debates together? Who's against it? Voting number 8, registered is 104, for 95, against 5. The motion was accepted. [[18.00 hours]] Thank you. I'm interrupting point seven here for the moment. Opening point
