ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u1	539. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 104th meeting, a total of 22 responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to draw all Members' attention to the provisions of Section 112 that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the meeting, there will be no debate on the answers to his interpellation and the House will not deliver an opinion or discuss it further. We'll approach individual interpellings. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mr Olga Richterová's interpellation with regard to fare reductions for disabled pensioners. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 707. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. I just read his apology, so it's not possible to continue the interview. Let's keep going. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Olga Richterová to the Prime Minister, who responded to the necessary legislative regulation for municipalities implementing comprehensive housing support. This interpelation is presented as a House press of 709. This hearing has also been suspended until the Prime Minister is present and cannot be continued. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš also responded to Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík's interpellation in the case of 2 000 billion money from our citizens from lithium. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 770. This press has been interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš responded to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on the lack of basic and kindergarten capacity. This interpelation is presented as a House press of 897. The hearing has been adjourned, it is not possible to continue until the Prime Minister is present. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mrs Věra Kovářová to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on the information of self-government. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1015. The discussion of this response was suspended until the presence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The Prime Minister replied to Mrs Věra Kovářová's interpelation on compensation to the regions. This interpelation is presented as House Press 1017. The discussion of this reply was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Jakub Janda to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in support of sports activity during the time of the coronavirus crisis. Interpelation is presented as a House press of 1098 together with a reply. The discussion of this reply was also suspended until the Prime Minister was present. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová replied to Mrs Olga Richterová's interview on the rules for the payment of the contribution in the Antivirus programme. Interpelation is presented as the House's press 1107. The discussion of this reply has been suspended until the Minister's presence. The Minister also apologized in writing from the morning meeting, so the hearing was suspended, it is not possible to continue. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to Mr Marek Novák's interpellation with regard to the undersized OSPOD. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1115. The discussion of this response has been interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš replied to Mr Jan Lipavský interpellation on the planned journey by economic advisor to the President of the Republic, Martin Nejedlý, to Moscow. Interpelation is presented as a House press of 1124 together with an answer. The hearing was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Pavel Žáček on the protection of classified information in the Office of the President of the Republic and the Military Office of the President of the Republic. Interpelation is directed at Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Prime Minister was present. It is not possible to continue the debate. [[9.10 hours]] Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová responded to the interview by Mrs Olga Richterová on occupational rehabilitation. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1135. The discussion was also suspended until the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. It is not possible to continue the debate. Now, change. Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpelation in support of the Czech aviation defence industry. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1140. The discussion of this reply was suspended until the Minister was present. He is present, and we will therefore continue the debate. I'm asking the Vice-President... [[He turns to Vojtěch Filip, who is about to go to the speaker's desk.]] ...and I'm asking him to give his interpellation. I will briefly read the apology of Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who apologizes for his personal reasons for today's negotiations. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, given the old age of this interpelation, I will not repeat everything. My dissatisfaction with the Minister of Defence's reply resulted from the fact that we have a very different approach to what technology is being purchased and from whom, because, as far as the Ministry of Defence funds are concerned, advances were essentially paid to suppliers abroad rather than suppliers from the Czech Republic. One of those suppliers is Aero Vodochody, which I remind in 2018, for those who are not watching it completely, for the first time introduced the L-39NG aircraft, a new generation of training aircraft, which is well known around the world. At that time, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš also promised that to end the lifetime of L-39C, i.e. those current training aircraft, an agreement will be concluded on how our pilots will train on aircraft of a new type, and since then the issue of concluded agreements or agreements between the state enterprise Malešice Air Repair Company, whose founder is the Ministry of Defence, and Aero Vodochody has been practically dragging. I would like to know from the Minister that he will tell before the House whether he will finally buy the four L-39NG training aircraft that were the subject of the agreement, and I would like to know the reasons for which the agreement has not yet been concluded. I know that there were three points at the time that I intervened last year and when the Minister of Defence responded to me, which allegedly prevented the conclusion of the contract, and that was the price - I would like to know why it did not happen, the conclusion of the contract when the price was approved by the LOM Supervisory Board on 30 March 2020. Another reason for the disagreement was the supposedly incomplete certification of the L-39NG aircraft. That's a little ridiculous, because the certification is over for a long time, and otherwise certification is never-ending process, because basically it depends on what the orderer, here Air Repair Malešice, actually orders and what needs to be certified there. And the third reason I find it completely abstract, and that's industrial cooperation. So if there's anything that should matter to the Aerospace Repairs, which means that the LOM must matter more, or to the Ministry of Defence, more than this cooperation, it's just that they remove the obstacles and try to conclude the contract, because Aero Vodochody supplies L-39NG to other countries of the world and the training of pilots from abroad who buy our technology, they give work to our factories, we can't actually secure it unless we have our own equipment and we can't use it. So I don't want to repeat the things that were in the original interpellation because it seems a little ridiculous to me. I have read in journals dealing with the defence industry, the views of generals who are airmen and who do not understand our procedure, that is, why the LOM, whose founder - I repeat - is the Ministry of Defence, is basically unable to provide for our pilots a training aircraft that boasts our industry and is used in more than 3,000 pieces worldwide. I would therefore like to ask if the three problems that were there, which I believe are already removed, why they still exist and why the contract between LOM, the state enterprise, and Aero Vodochody did not take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u3	I thank you and give the floor to Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to respond to this interpelation, and I would like to begin by saying that in 2017, the state undertaking LOM approached Aero Vodochody with an initial interest in the purchase of a newly developing L-39NG training aircraft, following the planned change in aviation technology intended for pilot training at the Pardubice Air Training Centre. This is mainly about providing training for pilots of the Army of the Czech Republic, which is one of the strategic tasks of our state enterprise, because sometime in 2004 this activity was outsourced from the army to the mentioned company LOM Praha. Since the beginning of the negotiations in 2017, the state enterprise has led the continuous negotiations with Aero Vodochody to proposals for contractual terms and related industrial cooperation with a link to the course of the certification process which has so far been for the military, and I stress this, is not completed as the Czech regulations and standards impose it. During last year, this meeting was already at a stage when specific contractual conditions, including price parameters and their expert verification, were pre-empted. In this respect, I would like to point out that the payment terms for the purchase of aircraft have already been agreed between LOM Praha and Aero Vodochody without any dispute in the model for the payment of the purchase price with the delivery of the aeroplane. The financing of the contract by LOM Praha was thus prepared in the form of credit financing, because - I would also like to stress - the state enterprise LOM, not the Ministry of Defence resort, is buying. [[9.20 hours]] A contract was also concluded with the State Enterprise LOM and the Ministry of Defence in the current multi-annual contract for the training. For the purposes of final price verification, Aero Vodochody was contacted to confirm this price and negotiated parameters of the contract, but at the beginning of March this year, LOM received official information that the offer from Aero Vodochody was no longer valid and was significantly modified. In particular, Aero Vodochody informed about the price increase and the change in payment terms. In response to the information received, the new management - because I am taking some steps, which would not be directly related to this contract, but I changed the management in the state enterprise LOM - took place another meeting with the representatives of Aero Vodochody and after several negotiations which led to an agreement on a joint procedure not only in the area of development and subsequent implementation of the L39 NG into training in the mentioned Centre for Air Training in Pardubice, came to the conclusion that the conclusion is to continue this negotiation. Even before signing the closure with Aero Vodochody and LOM strategic memorandum, or possibly memorandum on strategic cooperation and provision of resources by LOM and Aero Vodochody. So there has really been a change in this cooperation between these two entities, not only, let's say, at the expert level, but also at the cooperation. There has also been a settlement in terms of cooperation to repair the share of domestic industry, which in the field of repair of engines and other components with Aero Vodochody will cooperate with LOM, when this activity was done in the past abroad. So from me, as we agreed with the company, or LOM, as we agreed with Aero Vodochody. This contract continues after the completion of the really certification items. The Ministry of Defence is interested in purchasing these four new training aircraft to ensure the training of pilots of the Army of the Czech Republic and others, of course other pilots from abroad as it was. I would point out, therefore, that as regards the purchase and provision of the service as it was in the interpellation for the purchase of the H1 Bell system. The Ministry expects the declared involvement of the Czech industry in this re-arming, including the state enterprise LOM, both in the field of training and in the field of providing comprehensive support for the life cycle of helicopters of the system, as I have informed in the past, H1 Venom and Viper. Currently, steps are taken by the Ministry of Defence to the state enterprise and the state enterprise prepares with the various departments of the Ministry of Defence the construction of an air simulated training centre where LOM will subsequently operate with the expected subsequent start-up of the first quarter of 2023. At the same time there is also preparation for the construction of a service centre for the higher level of maintenance of mentioned helicopters, which will be operated by the Army of the Czech Republic including a logistics base. Both centres will be built as planned at the air base in Náměšť nad Oslavou. At the same time, I would also comment on the information that the Defence Department does not only pay advances abroad as mentioned. During my work, more than CZK 7.8 billion were paid to Czech companies by March this year, namely 29 contracts. Compared to what goes abroad, only 22 orders were paid abroad, so much less than Czech companies. It should be stressed: it is not possible to pay the advance, whether it is a foreign or a Czech entity, a Czech supplier, unless economic advantage is guaranteed under the rules and the law. So once again, the Ministry of Defence does not provide backup to the entities of the Czech defence industry, and it is easily traceable because everything is in the register of contracts that the Ministry of Defence concludes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u5	Thank you. Vice-President Jana Černochová is enrolled in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in this context, I would have two questions for Minister Metnar. For one thing, we know that the above-mentioned Venom and Viper helicopters cost - or will cost - more than CZK 17.5 billion. If I do not count the half-billion-dollar fine, which, due to the incompetence of some officials, especially Deputy Minister Říha, must be paid by the Ministry of Defence, by the Ministry of Finance, into the state budget - although the Minister claims that they will be tried - it is, however, half a billion, which will be missing in the Ministry of Defence's budget and army's budget. So let me ask you, what does the Czech industry have to do with buying these helicopters? That is how I understood the question of Vice-President Filip, because you did not answer that question. What percentage of this contract will remain in the Czech Republic? We're always getting this information in those tables you're presenting to us on the defense committee, we don't have it here. You mentioned that there will be a service here, that training will take place here. So I would be interested in the volume, the amount of funds from this acquisition, from which the Czech industry will profit. At the same time, my point is that I am absolutely not questioning the purchase of American helicopters. I am glad that we are retreating from Soviet technology because we also see the geopolitical context of today. On the other hand, they were always ministers in the defence department who said they wanted to support the Czech industry. So I want to ask you in particular, how will you support the Czech industry in this case? To those NGs. Minister, can you tell us when the certification will be finally completed? I'm interested in the date, because we've been hearing that for months now that the certification is underway, and there's no end to the county. So I want to know the specific date when it will be clear whether this aircraft meets the certification so that these aircraft can be used by the Army of the Czech Republic so that the acquisitions can be completed. It is not possible - and certainly those changes concerning any valuation are related to delays, when the price of some parts, technology, was some, now it is different. We also see that in the time of the covido and post-covide era, a lot of materials are going to get significantly more expensive, so all these orders are going to get expensive. I therefore ask you a third question on this occasion. Yesterday, we learned that the purchase of infantry combat vehicles is moving away again. So it's definitely going away for the term of office, as I firmly believe, of this House, perhaps even of this government. I will hope that the new government is constitutionalized as quickly as possible after the election. So I want to ask you, what's next with the BVPs? What about the funds in the budget that you have for the purchase of military vehicles for 2021? And these are the funds that we bloodily fought out, whether as Members of the Defence Committee or even in this House plenary. I'm sure your money has returned to the budget, too, I'm not questioning that. [[9.30 hours]] On the other hand, if you've known for six months, Minister, that the purchase of infantry combat vehicles is complicated, and you're actually moving it to another period where you might be in position, maybe you won't be in position, so what do you expect from it? Do you promise that the new minister in his new position will get information from you for the first week that everything is in bows? I'm looking at Mrs. former Minister Šlechtová, because it's a legendary statement by Mr. former Minister for the ANO Stropnický movement, and someone who shows up at the resort, so you think he's gonna sign a contract for such a large amount, actually the largest amount for the last era of acquisition of the Army of the Czech Republic. When we told you, six months ago on the committee, whether you finish it by the end of your term of office or whether you don't go ahead and make a choice with the Prime Minister, you'll consider the option of buying the G-to-G Beeches, the government-government, and you're doing it in other cases, so you said no, that it's all for the good that it's all gonna happen. Now we know nothing's gonna happen. We don't have time for a bouquet, we don't have time for a MADR, we don't have time for a vest. This is also absolutely crucial information that we have from the last week that the large competition for the purchase of ballistic protection, the vest, failed the vest from one of those companies failed military trials. How is that possible? How come there's the same situation that we were dealing with here a year and a half ago, then they were helmets, now they're vests? Minister, are you really not aware that ballistic protection is the most important thing for every soldier? Why are you resigning to their equipment and their safety? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u7	Thank you. The minister wishes to answer, I understand from the fact that he got up and went to the counter. Vice-President Filip is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Questions from the honourable Member have been raised a lot more, as they are in my head, and I will respond to them saying that I will probably take it from the back. I'm not surprised in some ways. I think, as madr said, you know well that MADR was signed two years ago. All contractual terms are respected there, and there will be supplies of these mobile radars in 2023, so I don't know why you mention MADR. With regard to ballistic vests, ballistic helmets, this is, of course, the primary protection of every soldier, but on the other hand, the MP asks me how this is possible - how is it that the supplier does not deliver and some things are found in these tests, which are currently being removed and fine-tuned? So ask the supplier, that's what we ask, and we try to get the soldiers to get the best things, which means the ballistics of the fourth and higher classes, so they can be protected, so they can work in it, so that not only the ballistics plates, but also the ballistics carriers have no flaws. But I don't have any information, and I agree with President Černochová here - yes, it's being dealt with, there have been irregularities, but that's what we're working on. There's no decision now that there should be some sort of cancellation of the tender. The way I'm looking at it right now, because I was informed at the end of last week about the problems that occurred during the military exams, my people are solving this. Another thing - mentioned 30 percent of the domestic industry's involvement in Bell helicopters. At least, as I say, the Czech company Ray Service, state enterprise LOM, Military Technical Institute, I said in what volumes. Well, in what volumes it would be, which was clear at the beginning when we were talking about 30 percent of the contract, and another thing, it would be in the form of a lower level of maintenance and service. You heard a moment ago that I was speaking that the state enterprise was preparing and conducting negotiations with Bell for a higher level of maintenance, including logistical security and, of course, training and simulators, when the simulator was also incorporated in the contract. So this is all going to be realized. There's one more thing I'd like to say. When will certification be completed? When it's with Aero Vodochody, the finished stuff. And you won't hear a date from me because I don't know him. And when, let's say, this activity, which is very sophisticated and it is an air traffic where there are very strict rules, will be completed by the competent civil, military authorities, by the Ministry of Defence, the ODVL and Aero Vodochody, I don't know. When these steps are taken, of course it will shift, but I can't get ahead of myself and I can't push these people to do anything other than how the rules are set. As far as BVP is concerned, of course, this is being extended, but it is being extended for objective reasons. A request from one of the potential three suppliers came in to extend the deadline following the submission of a binding offer until October of this year. Another company will send another extension request. From the perspective of a transparent approach, we cannot completely fail and dogmatically insist on our term, which was given for processing, which was one month. So at present, the Armament and Acquisition Section negotiates with companies when they will be able to deliver and will extend the deadline binding on the delivery of binding bids.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u9	Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, if it wasn't so serious, I'd call it a comedy. Minister, you know, it's complicated. I was quoting here that a price agreement was concluded in March 2020, which was valid for a year. March 2021 has passed and, of course, as other suppliers have said, they have started to negotiate a different price. You say it's Aero Vodochody's thing, that after March 2021, it doesn't respect the price and that they said otherwise. Well, of course, because when you didn't close that price agreement in force, manufacturers are counting the price in post-covide time according to current energy supplies, materials and so on. Everyone will do that to you. If you're incapable of doing anything about your office, don't wonder what your results are. As for the helicopters, yes, it's a good thing we're certified for Bell and the others. But why isn't certification completed when the certification is completed in the South Tools Velešín for Bell, for Lockie, for the delivery of the hydraulic parts. That one factory can arrange it, and the other can't? You're making fun of us. And of course here you will tell us what advance payments have been made to Czech companies - that is some amount of old contracts, I understand that, but you will not tell us why you haven't paid anything, a single crown, Aero Vodochody. You won't say - you haven't paid a penny. Well, don't be surprised they'll tell you it's different. And if you don't set the conditions for the L-39NG, for the training aircraft, unlike other customers, you will never complete the certification because those conditions have to be set. [[9.40 hours]] I understand that not everyone understands the detail. But don't make fun of us. We're really not in the mood for that here. I didn't want to remind you of the fine that the President reminded me of, because it was obvious. We didn't make any deal with an Italian supplier. And you know what you got that ticket for? That you wrote that there is no helicopter market in Europe. Well, I guess it's not made by Ital, Němec, Francouz, it's not made by helicopters. You can't write such a stupid thing - I'm sorry to put it this way - in the justification. The deal could have been. The Czech Republic could have had the largest training centre for jet aircraft because we have one of the best L-39NG products. And, of course, the Ital were trying to make room for the training centre of all NATO countries in Italy. That was their condition, if I understood correctly, from their actions that went to the UOHS and which went on. So here's the deal. So I'm asking you again: if you didn't keep the bid date, March 2020, will you keep the new one, or will you find a new deadline for the L-39NG bid? That's the important thing. And when is it to be delivered? So when are you gonna set the deadline when you say we're gonna be practicing those pilots in Pardubice? By when is the L-39NG to be delivered so that it can be? It's clear that if you're the founder of the business, then you have to work to get the business to work. Or do we want to sell it, the place? Or what do you want to do with him? It's not funny. I don't want to expand the interpelation, but it was my point, because there were so-called three problems in the spring of this year, and I don't want to get into the details, but these things are essential to even fulfill the target you were talking about here. And I'm glad that such a target exists, that there's just going to be a training center for military aircraft pilots. And once again, it's basically up to you - just you, how you run the business that you set up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u11	A factual point, Mrs Černochová, is then declared for debate by the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u12	Thank you. He's already partly mentioned it here by my previous speaker, Vice-President. It is not possible, Minister, that you will tell us here that you do not know any date at the end of the certification. Those planes are flying! Those planes fly in other countries around the Czech Republic! Is that where they were waiting for certification? Yeah, I guess they do. And do you know the difference between the certification you're asking for here in the Czech Republic and what they're demanding in Hungary? If you don't have the information, find out! [[In an elevated voice.]] You've calmed me down a little bit, that at least the MADRs will work and that in 2023 we'll have the MADRs. So if you can explain to me, Minister, what will you do with the howitzers and SHORAD anti-aircraft units, which, oddly enough, in your tender - the contract has increased by CZK 9 billion, what will the army do under your leadership, whether it is hiding or you will continue to negotiate? So what's going to happen? I'm also wondering how it's possible there's been a jump price increase on the Vera-NG tracking system. It clearly points again to your resort's inability to compete with anything. And stop making excuses for the Public Procurement Act! [[In an elevated voice.]] You do a lot of G-to-G competitions, but the result is exactly the same. The acquisition's a mess!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u13	The Minister will respond in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With regard to the aforementioned orders, NATO-caliber guns and SHORAD anti-aircraft missile assemblies, yes, with SHORAD it was a 50% increase, for the works it was almost 60% increase. The first indicative offers that have come from suppliers - we will not be hiding anything at present, negotiations are ongoing to reduce the price and to justify the individual increases that have come because marketing surveys and feasibility studies were made in 2019 and it is true that since then, not only does the inflation of input materials lead to an increase. So we're looking for the optimal option for the optimal price, which will then be assessed by the expert whether it's the price in time and place usual. That's one thing. After that, about the ringing... I have to refuse, as far as Aero Vodochody's advances are concerned - the Ministry of Defence does not buy as the founder of a state enterprise, it really buys the state enterprise LOM, we cannot put an advance. The terms of financial terms: as agreed, LOM and Aero Vodochody have agreed to buy it, LOM on credit from banks, and I cannot enter it from the point of view of illegal support, because I, too, as the founder, have certain obligations and powers to the state undertaking, but that is beyond that. It's a contract that's strictly between LOM and Aero Vodochody. And it's not true that I should know the term or that I have to say the term. I'm not gonna tell you because now I've checked again, and certification in those parameters, as they want to get new L-39NG LOM aircraft, is really Aero Vodochody's thing, not the Secretary of Defense or the Ministry of Defense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u15	Thank you. I have a factual point here, Mr Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am asking myself, when I saw what the government approved for the outlook in the next year's budget, where the defence is losing money, and when we see that the BVP is not going to make it this year, they are most likely not going to make it this year, and we are still seeing a shift in other orders, so I wonder if this is going to go financially? Then where will the resources be? And there I really wonder how you want to deal with this, or what you leave to the minister who will eventually come after you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u17	The Minister shall speak, then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u18	As far as the Infantry Belt Vehicle Purchase Project is concerned, I have told you what the current situation is in terms of the process's next progress, that two potential suppliers have actually requested a relatively long shift according to the latest information. So now this negotiation is under way, whether we can find a compromise and move forward, but not in such a long stretch, with the fact that we will certainly come to some consensus with potential suppliers when binding offers will be made. But what is important, you know well that in May I informed the government of the method of financing, namely the distribution of seven years up to 2028, in order not to impose such a burden on the resort, as well as the timetables for the delivery of these vehicles, these supplies. You are right that the draft budget submitted by the Ministry of Finance will cut us by about CZK 15 billion in the medium term. We are currently looking because it is clear to all that if this proposal, but I still hope that there is room for negotiations and increases as it was announced after the discussion with the Minister of Finance that we are waiting for the summer macroeconomic prediction in July and then we will continue to act, because not only the OECD, but also others evaluate our economy well and that it is growing. So, as we discussed, there will be a change in this proposal and an increase in the Ministry of Defence's budget. [[9.50 hours]] Currently, as we changed the financing schedule for the BVP, even this year, the planned cash out, which would be from the defence budget, was not planned until next year, until 2022. We'll see at the moment. Even the reduced proposal, I note, should not theoretically endanger those strategic projects that are, but I firmly believe that it will be possible for the defence department to improve and increase the budget for the next years, including the medium term perspective that it is. Let's see how the budget plays out. But otherwise we would really have to go back to the way it was in the past, if the Department of Defense were to be cut short, rethink modernization and projects either shift in time or cancel some.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u19	I have here one point of fact - Mrs Černochová, Vice-President Filip, then President Válek, came forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u20	If you're good, everything will be good, there'll be frogs... Minister, can you explain to me why you weren't in the government that approved this budget change? Why did you let Secretary Schillerová take your budget of nearly $5 billion? It was the last government. I was deliberately looking at who the ministers were in that government and who they weren't. You weren't there. How is it that you represent a resort for which you do not fight at all?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact, Mr Lipavský, is then the order, as I said, Vice-President Filip, President Válek, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will add a colleague, Mrs Černochová, to the government's meeting. It is absolutely absurd that the government will approve at the same meeting the mandate for a foreign trip to the NATO summit in Brussels to the President and its members, where it is said that the Czech Republic will respect its commitment to defence spending, and the same government will be faced with a draft budget that goes directly against this resolution. This seems really strange to me, and to a large extent this speaks of the state of governance in the Czech Republic today. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u23	Those were factual remarks. Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u24	Thank you. I don't think we're going to learn anything new here about my interpelation, but I still ask the Chamber of Deputies to reject the answer of Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar to my written interview because I am dissatisfied with it and I am convinced that it is necessary to continue to monitor what is going to happen to those contracts, what is going to happen to the state enterprise LOM and the things that we have discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u25	Thank you. Mr. Válek Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u26	I'm sorry, it's a destiny, but I'll be good. I get it, there's more work in construction too, so when it costs more, like 50% increase, the more work, they probably have some reason, although I miss what, but okay. It's really a school for me, because now that I've been circling Slavkov, Vyškov through South Moravian Region, the soldiers on missions have told me that they're buying their own helmets and a number of their own equipment because it's safer and better. I thought it was... both hunter's Latin and military. Now I find out with horror that it's true - well, okay. However, I am glad, Minister, that you believe, because at least that belief will move us to believe that the budget will be increased, that it will somehow turn out. However, to be positive. So there's a contract that's been going on for the last four years and it's gone well, which you might as well show off here, and these soldiers say, "Yeah, that was great, and it all worked out? So we can have the positive examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u27	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond. So if you take it in 35 months, I'll start with: mobile MADR radar, helicopters, light combat vehicles, passenger cars, handguns, ammunition, let's say the means of electronic warfare. 35,000 contracts have been concluded in 35 months, which is easily traceable, and it is factual, for over CZK 109 billion. And I will fluently move on to how I do not fight for the resort, as has been said here from the mouth of the Member. Then I will go back to how the ODS purchased at their time for a maximum of 300 million a year and how the military and defence budget was decimated for your activities at the resort. So you're putting this dog's head on me, and you don't even have a comparison in hard numbers, what happened? I think that's pretty unfair on your part. Well, it's just for refills.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u29	Thank you. A point of fact, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Růžička, before the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u30	It's obvious that the Minister's voice is shaking, that I put a nail on his head. And if someone's at a loss, they always use arguments about what the ODS did. Mr. Secretary, good morning. Do you know the last time the ODS was at the Defense Department? On purpose: eight years ago. And Minister, do you know who's been at the Defense Department for eight years? The representatives of the YES movement!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u31	Thank you. Mr. Růžička.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to reply to Mr Válek, through Mr President, what succeeded, the Minister here forgot about it. Maybe the difference is when your secretary Parkanová was shopping for Casa, so the minister was able to buy those Casas half a billion cheaper now. You know, that's quite a success and a difference in what Secretary Parkanová was buying. The helmets: that was ten years ago. When I was on a mission ten years ago, I didn't have to buy that helmet because I got it. Of course, if any soldier finds out that the balist helmet that is normally entrusted to him doesn't suit him, and buys a new one, he's breaking the rules, because if something happens to him there, I don't know how the DOD would be responsible for getting his head shot. So, yes, it may be, but these are individuals who aren't happy with what the DOD buys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u33	President of the Wars for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u34	Thank you, Mr President. I would like, by your means, to thank the honourable Members for the soldiers, for calming them down, for buying the helmets, for that is their thrill and stupidity, because the ones that the army has bought are much better. I understand. Yes, I understand. History is terrible. I remember, too, when I was in the army, that was before Parkan, that was before eighty-nine, that was a disaster at all. If you think of Master Hus and then his punching fist of Jan Žižka, he bought the pancrafausts or what they were fighting with there, for terrible money. You're right, if we go on and on, one of the biggest corruption affairs was for the old Rome for Scipio African, he had to quit for it. You're right, you need to look at history. Then the troubles today look much more optimistic. And also for the pyramids, there was a lot of spending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u35	I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u36	I forgot to answer one question to the Prime Minister, why I wasn't in the government, now I remember. It's true, but the day before the government, I left for the hospital where I was examined, and I've really been in hospital ever since, so it was for health reasons that I couldn't attend. But there was a proper substitution for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u37	Well, thank you. I'll read a few apologies. Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises today between 9.30 and 19 for health reasons, Minister Havlíček apologizes today from 10.20 to the end of the day for work reasons, Mr Richter apologises between 9.30 and 11.30 for work reasons, Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises today from 13.00 to the end of the day for personal reasons and tomorrow 18. 6. all day for health reasons. The Vice-President suggested that the House should adopt a disagreeable opinion on the reply to the Minister of Defence's written interpellation. We're not checking out, it's not a good idea, Mr. Chairman... We'll wait a little while longer if you don't object to my management of the meeting. It's potentially risky. [[10.00 hours]] For the new arrivals, I will recapitulate that we discussed the written interpelation of Vice-President Vojtěch Filip on the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar on the support of the Czech aviation defence industry and after the end of the debate there is a proposal for a disagreeable opinion from the Chamber of Deputies. I think the number of votes in the O.R. is stable, we are qualified, we are a quorum. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of the House accepting a dissenting position? Who's against it? Voting number 442, registered 79, for 28, anti 13. The motion was not accepted. We've discussed the interpelation properly. Thank you. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Jan Skopeček in the matter of the selection procedure for the post of Director of the Army Sports Centre Dukla. Interpolation is directed at Secretary of Defense Lubomír Metnar and is presented together with a reply as House press 1154. The discussion has been adjourned, the Minister is present, I give him my word and pass on. Please, Minister, you have the floor. I mean, if I'm -- sorry, I'm sorry -- the MP is? So unfortunately, § 111 is relentless in this, paragraph. 4. If the Member is not present, it cannot be discussed, which is a pity. We're glad to have you here, Minister. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček responded to the interview of Jan Farský on the demolition of railway buildings in the Králové Hradec Region. Interpelation shall be submitted with a reply as printing of 1187. The discussion of this reply has been suspended until the presence of the Vice-President of the Government, who is not present. We cannot continue the debate. Minister of Justice Marie Benešová responded to Mr Marian Jurečka's interview on the convicted lobbyist Roman Janoušek. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1188. This discussion has also been suspended to the presence of the Minister. I read an apology this morning. Minister for Agriculture Miroslav Toman responded to Mrs Dana Balcarová's interview on animal transport. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1213. I am opening the debate on this issue and I am asking the Member to present her intervention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to add to the written reply by Minister Toman concerning the long-distance transport of animals, to what I want to respond to now in my intervention, that the Minister states that the decision of the European Court of Justice makes it clear that responsibility for compliance with the conditions laid down throughout the journey is fully borne by the carrier. I was actually aiming at the fact that tens of thousands of animals from the Czech Republic are currently exported to third countries. It is often very painful for animals. They're being transported all the way to Africa or the Far East to Russia. I would like to ask the Minister two questions about the responsibility, if only the carrier is responsible for the quality of the transport to third countries. I am based on the decision of the European Court of Justice of 2015. In my opinion, it follows that according to Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. Council Regulation 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport and related activities must be interpreted as meaning that, in order to allow transport involving a long journey involving domestic equidae, bovine, ovine, caprine and porcine animals which starts on the territory of the European Union and continues outside that territory to be approved by the competent authority of dispatch, a journey book which must be realistic and must allow for the presumption that the provisions laid down in this book will be complied with throughout the entire section of the journey to be carried out on the territory of a third country. Where this is not the case, that authority shall be entitled to require that those conditions be amended in such a way that compliance with those provisions is ensured at all times. I wanted to ask about the results of the audit conducted by the European Commission in the Czech Republic in 2017, which was aimed at assessing the suitability and effectiveness of the measures that were introduced to prevent unnecessary pain, suffering or injury to animals during long-distance road transport to countries outside the European Union. I wanted to ask the Minister if it is possible to get acquainted with the results of the audit - that is my first question - and the second question which concerns whether the responsibility of the sending country, which actually relies on the proper completion of the travel book, and the state authority issues permits for the transport, so how does the Ministry find that the travel book is correctly filled? If there is any methodology for controlling authorities to ensure that animal transport conditions are met so as not to cause unnecessary animal suffering during the journey, and if this methodology exists, can I also get acquainted with it? Thank you so much for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u39	Thank you, and I'll ask the Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u40	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must stress that the Czech Republic has always supported and still supported initiatives that lead to an improvement in animal welfare levels in the European Union, including the protection of animals during transport. I must also stress that the Czech Republic has long supported activities in the area of the consistent and uniform enforcement of the applicable rules of mutual cooperation between supervisory authorities as regards the unification of interpretations both at European Union level and in negotiations with third countries. That is precisely why we are proposing, as one of the topics of the upcoming Czech Presidency, a revision of the Council regulation number 1/2005, which was mentioned here, on the protection of animals during transport, because we realise that it is important to clarify or supplement the unclear interpretation of certain provisions in order to improve their enforcement. In the Czech Republic, the period of transport of animals is limited by law beyond European legislation. Of course, the Ministry of Agriculture, in cooperation with the State Veterinary Administration, means the supervisory authority, we monitor this and try to take measures to prevent animal abuse during transport. The supervision shall be carried out by official veterinarians of regional veterinary administrations who carry out consignments. As far as exports are concerned, for example, now in the summer months, as the Member said, or wrote, I apologize, there is a range of temperatures that must be maintained for animals in the transport process. There is a range between 5 and 30 degrees Celsius, there is tolerance plus minus five degrees according to outdoor temperature. Of course, we respect the maximum temperatures during transport, and it's been checked back for several years. This means, firstly, we inform carriers of live animals of the supervisory authorities of the impossibility of transporting animals under inappropriate temperature conditions. We stop the handling of consignments of livestock for a distance exceeding 600 km if the specified heat limits cannot be complied with at all times. Of course, we apply sanctions in non-compliance and, of course, we check in the reverse control system of the driving book and the temperature record, for which there is a methodology. [[10.10 hours]] I must say that the State Veterinary Administration has introduced this system of back-checks, in which the carriers must send the relevant regional veterinary authorities within 30 days of the end of the journey a credible copy of the journey book and the temperature record. If these temperature limits are found to be exceeded or the carrier does not supply the required documents, a minimum fine shall be imposed on him and with the carrier for which this similar offence would be repeated, he shall, of course, immediately initiate the suspension procedure, in the case of a foreign entity the procedure for the temporary prohibition of the transport of animals in the territory of the Czech Republic. As far as the methodology is concerned, I assume that the State Veterinary Administration can make that methodology available. I wouldn't see any major problem there. So many introductions so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u41	Thank you. The honourable Member is still interested in speaking in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u42	I thank the Minister for his reply. Through the President, I must say that I am very pleased that this topic - the transport of long-distance animals - has been chosen as a priority topic for our Presidency in the Council. I think that is really a very positive and necessary thing. But you, Minister, have not answered the question, whether it is possible to get acquainted with the audit carried out by the European Commission in 2017. That's the first thing. And then I would just ask if that's really why the remote transport of animals is so supported, if it wouldn't be better if we, as the Czech Republic, tried to sell food products from those animals or export half-carcasses rather than live animals. You rely on competitiveness in the answer, that's the main reason. Well, I wonder if the added value we could give to the meat processing would be more advantageous for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u43	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister... However, I have a factual point here - Mr Bělobrádek, but he wishes to wait until after the Minister's speech. It's a good thing we can work this out. Tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u44	Thank you. I'll be very brief. As far as the audit is concerned, the audit found nothing beyond other Member States. The audit can, of course, be available, there is no problem. Another thing, the European Commission or the Commission and the Council of Ministers are preparing to revise the current conditions in 2023, that is to say in 2023, on the basis of the evaluation of all those audits and experiences, new regulations should be issued regarding the transport of animals and protection. The reason we do not export products: of course we would like to export products, but of course we also have to respect demand from other countries. Competitiveness, yes, that is true, that is one of the reasons, despite the fact that the other reason is that we will be replaced by another exporter when we, as the Czech Republic, would leave this market. I think this concerns all European farmers. At a time when the European Union would prohibit exports to third countries, transport in live ones, exporters from other third countries will be replaced and perhaps the conditions would be even worse. This means that I would recommend going along a unified path within the European Union, reviewing all the regulations. What will be there by 2023, is the support, taking it as one of the topics of our Presidency, the protection of animals. I think it is important for consumers. And only when the single procedure is united, then decide, because I really would not like to jeopardize the competitiveness of our farmers, who are largely dependent on it. I respect that it would be better to export value added products, but at this point there is not so much demand, they simply want to be alive. But in the future, we can talk about it, I'm sure we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u45	Good morning again. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. Before I give my word on the factual remark to Pavel Bělobrádek, I note that Mr Babka has cancelled his apology for today's meeting, he is already present. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would just add that these standards have been increasing quite forcefully and for a long time. Coincidentally, I did my dissertation on the transport of slaughter animals with regard to the protection of animals against abuse. It is important to note that what the Minister said is necessary to add that in some cases it is not possible because, despite the possibility of insemination or embryotransfer, it is also traded with breeding material. Of course, it is not optimal for our economy when the cattle were exported somehow. If they dare or transport slaughter cattle, it's not optimal either. Of course, efforts must be made to ensure that live animals, especially over long distances, are transported as little as possible. This means, it must always be counted on that there will be a certain part, whether it concerns breeding material, whether it applies to animals from zoos or the like, which will be transported over a long distance, so those standards must be constantly increased to reduce objective causes, where it is quite clear, and it was confirmed in my dissertation that it depends, of course, on temperature, distance, but also on how the animals are treated. The second thing to say is, of course, states, particularly Islamic ones, who are interested in importing live animals as slaughter. I also agree that the problem is that, in terms of competition, Member States could take over this trade, as the Minister said, which do not comply with European Union standards. This means that we must also think about this, and what is essential is not to harm our breeders by basically having stricter criteria than the European Union. These conditions need to be changed in a pan-European way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u47	I thank Mr Bělobrádek for keeping time on the point of fact. I don't have anyone else logged in. I ask Mrs Balcarová if she asks for a resolution? He doesn't. So I can end the interview with the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman. We will continue with the interpelling of Mr Jan Jakob to Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček to extend the exemption from the obligation to use the National Electronic Instrument for Road and Motorways Directorate. Interpelation, together with the reply, is presented as a House press of 1216. Colleague Jakob is here, Minister Havlíček is excused. I ask if Mr Jakob wants to be interrupted, because I have not yet decided that we should stop discussing this matter in the presence of the Minister? Please, Mr. Ambassador, what do you suggest?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Since I did not find out in the Minister's reply what steps the Directorate of Roads and Motorways had led to an exception for the first three years not to require another three-year exemption, I would like to ask for a suspension of the hearing until the Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u49	Okay, I will. [[Sounds like a gong.]] We will vote on your proposal, that is to say, Mr Jan Jakob asks for the interruption of his interpellation under the House press 1216 in the presence of Minister Karel Havlíček. I'll wait a while. We will decide on the motion to interrupt in the vote number 443, which I have launched, and I ask, who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 443, out of 82 votes 44 in favour. [[against no one]] Interpellation has been interrupted. [[10.20 hours]] We can move on. We have another interpelation, and this is the interpellation of Mr Jakub Michálek to Mrs Alena Schillerová on the reconstruction of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes and the interpelation was presented together with the reply as a House press of 1219. My colleague Michálek is not present, so the interpellation is failing. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Jan Lipavský to the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar and it is a press of 1220. The Minister is present, Mr Lipavskýý also, we can discuss the question. The Member shall report to the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u50	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, thank you for the floor. I interviewed Minister Metnar on the question of Mr Müller's political deputy, and in fact my question was that the KSČM ended its support for the government and together with the support of the government for the time it supported it, so were the various political trades, concessions, after all, as is the case with the government. And one of these stores that took place last summer was the appointment of Mr. Müller as political deputy at the Defense Department. Of course, no one has ever named it that explicitly, nowhere has it been presented as a media presentation, but when we put certain events in the context of time, it's quite clear. I will remind you that this happened again in connection with the budget negotiations last summer, and it was necessary in some way to obtain the support of the KSČM. In a situation where KSČM withdrew the government's support, and we witnessed it here - in distrust of the government the Communists were not in the hall, they left, they did not vote for the government - so I ask myself a simple question: Why does the deputy remain there? So even though you're saying he's unpolitical, in that sense, I've asked the question. And, of course, it is crucial for me to monitor how the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia has an impact on the Ministry of Defence. Maybe it made me very nervous when you stepped in, Minister, the Koněv case. This is the statue that has already been removed from the square in Prague 6, where again - and I simply feel the influence and some requirements of the KSČM that you asked Prague 6 to ask the statue - you, to sell the defence department - the statue, and then somehow could manipulate it again in the Czech-Russian relations, which are going through the greatest day after the willow case, are in the worst possible condition ever between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation. So I would really like to know how you approach this and whether you intend to do something about it, since you no longer have the support of the Communist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u51	Yes, the Minister of Defense, Lubomír Metnar, is reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u52	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very factual and brief here. I'm gonna say one thing. There is no political nominee in the top management at the Ministry of Defence. As for Deputy Minister Müller, he worked as Deputy Minister of Defence before I appointed him as Deputy Minister of Defence, based on his experience with diplomacy as regards political matters, his expression and his views for the Minister on the current political situation, which is, of course, the preparation of documents for foreign travels. You link a few things speculatively, because I, if I spoke to Deputy Minister Müller at the time, he was once a member of the ČSSD, he resigned from the ČSSD. I don't have any information that he's a member of the KSČM, and I don't know if he is, and if he's from the past, I don't have that information. On the other hand, as we are tasked with preparing the Presidency within the EU, this is another agenda that he is in charge of, and not only on the Union's but also on the alliance level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u53	Thank you. My colleague Lipavský is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u54	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for your answer. I would just like to propose that we vote that the House does not accept this answer. I'm sorry, now I can't remember exactly what the standardized formula sounds like, that they don't agree with the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u55	The Minister is still reporting. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would add one more thing because I forgot the link, the mention of the Member with the Koněv. I do not understand some of the connections and the creation of, say, the merger and mixing of these things, because as far as the situation around Koněv is concerned, you know that I am one of the members of the meeting with President Zeman at the highest level of constitutional officials when this topic was discussed there. On this basis, one of the options that could have been taken into account by the Ministry of Defence was the lending or purchase of the statue of Koněv and the location of the military museum, where we have a number of sculptures in terms of history. And I don't understand the connection, I don't understand, which is probably why I can hardly respond to it, the connection between Deputy Minister Müller and the statue of Marshal Koněv. So I see it as an artificially created connection, because, yes, we communicated with Prague 6 following that, because there the Ministry of Defence is worried about graves and monuments from World War II, and it is our duty. So the assignment to the statue of Koněv Koneva was created at the meeting of the highest constitutional officials. We were looking into the possibilities, of course, and I did not see the connection from the point of view of the management of the resort and Deputy Minister Müller on this matter, let's say, the solution of the statue of Marshal Koněv.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u57	Thank you, Minister. One more point in fact, Mr Lipavský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u58	Thank you for the floor. Here we differ in our opinion. I simply see a set of requirements: reducing the defence budget - minus 10 billion, working with symbols of Soviet influence in the Czech Republic - Koněv or some personnel requirements. That's how I see it, that's how I read it, and that's why I'm intersecting you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u60	Mr President, Minister, I would take it from the other side. I'm so glad that as the Department of Defense, you care about the memorial sites and the graves of war veterans. You know, there are few of us who understand the pirát philosophy, even though we all know that they are world champions in caving and giving, so there's nothing to be surprised about here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u61	Thank you, Mr Růžička. No one is going into the debate anymore, and I am ending the debate. Before we vote, because I will perform, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, an apology from Mr Rostislav Vyzula between 13:00 and 19:00, and Mr Jiří Strýček apologizes between 15:00 and 19:00. [[10.30 hours]] We will therefore now vote on Mr Lipavský proposal that he does not agree with Minister Metnar's response to his intervention. [[Gong.]] I have begun voting number 444 and I ask who is in favour of disagreeing with the Minister's reply? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 444, from 83 for 11, against 22. The motion was not accepted. That's the end of the interpellation. The penultimate interpelation is the interpelation of Mr Jakub Michálek to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš in the case of ČD, Telematics and the use of oracle skills by Jaroslav Faltýnek. My colleague Michálek is not here. The interpellation is failing. Mr. Jan Lipavský interpellation to Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Jan Hamáček's planned journey to Moscow by the Minister of the Interior is the last intervention. It's press 1226. The Minister is excused. I'm asking my colleague Lipavský how he's going to deal with the interpellation? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the procedural proposal that we postpone this interpelation to the presence of Minister Hamáček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u63	Okay. I will vote on this proposal. [[Gong.]] In the vote number 445, we would decide to interrupt the press meeting 1226, to interpel Mr Lipavský to Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Jan Hamáček, to the presence of the Minister of the Interior. I've started voting number 445 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 445, from 83 to 37, against no one. The motion was not accepted. That concludes the discussion of written intercessions, and since we have decided to continue after 11 o'clock, I am declaring a break until 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 11 hours, so we would continue the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So now we would be dealing with fixed points. This is paragraph 543, House press 1242, way of voting to the Chamber of Deputies, shortened negotiations, and paragraph 544, government information - pandemic emergency. We would then proceed with the points according to the approved agenda of the meeting. Let me remind you that this afternoon we're going to be focusing on paragraph 540, which is oral questioning. Now I'll read the apologies. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes from 9 a.m. to 14 a.m. for working reasons and Mr David Pražák apologizes on 17. 6. due to negotiations in the electoral region. I am now asking whether any of the Members would like to speak on the amendment to the approved agenda of the 104th meeting? Yes, Mr. Cernohorsky. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u65	Thank you for the floor. I would suggest, in agreement with the club presidents, I have not yet - I have not been here a representative of the ČSSD - a new point: A motion for a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 927 of 12 February 2020. It's actually about... This concerns the House press number 360 - the extension of the SAO's powers. Given that the Senate is actually coming to an end at this point in time for us to decide on this press, so we would rethink the resolution that this press is postponed until the end of the Senate negotiations, so that the Senate can discuss how the amendment to the Constitution, which it has already discussed in all committees at the moment, should go to the Senate plenary, so that the House press can also get 360. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u66	And when do you propose to include that point - a motion for a review?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u67	I propose it - it will therefore be a relatively quick point, so we would merely review the resolution - so we would give it the first point today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u68	Tonight's first point. Member Lubomír Volný has a replacement card number 10. Mrs Pastuchová, please. [[Restlessness and noise in the Chamber, Mrs Pastuchová before the speaker's desk, reporting for word.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like a five-minute break for our club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u70	Five minutes now? [[Mrs Pastuch: Yes, yes.]] So, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, five minutes for a recess for the club meeting. [[Mrs Pastuchová: Yes, thank you.]] Okay, so I'm declaring a break until 11:09. [[Meet adjourned at 11.04 pm until 11.09 pm.]] We have 11.09 hours, but I've now asked computer science to correct the clock because it shows me 11.08, but there is 11.09, so our House clock is a minute different, and that can obviously cause problems. [[Unintelligible reactions in plenary.]] Oh, yeah, 'cause we're putting out a break for a while, and now that it's about a minute, somebody might want to vote. So I've already asked that this be brought into line. We'll continue; I have here - a break has passed for the ANO meeting - and I will now read two apologies. Today, from 9 o'clock to the end of the day, for reasons of work - a programme in the region - apologizes to Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek apologizes between 11 and 12 o'clock due to a doctor's visit. Now, if there is no other proposal -. [[Mr Michálek is reporting for the floor]] Yes, please, Chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u71	Thank you for the floor. Given that we did not have time in one of the previous days to discuss laws relating to lobbying regulation, and I promised to load it here, so as not to be surprising, I suggest that we change the agenda of the meeting so that we put the House press 565 and 566, the law on lobbying and the amendment law, to tomorrow, at the end of the fixed points at 11.40 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u72	So I'm asking if there's any other proposal to change the agenda. So we're going to vote on two proposals. [[Mr Benda is reporting for the floor.]] Also Chairman of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of Marek Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u73	I just didn't understand my colleague Michálek. After the fixed points after 11.40 hours, okay?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u74	Yes, we have the weapons at 11.40 hours, and then these points would be. [[They're arguing with an employee of the organizational department off the microphone.]] Yes, there's the Bill of Rights and Freedoms - 385, then there's 339 - Constitution. That's the Constitution, third reading. Then there is the Rules of Procedure - 392. That's 11:40 a.m., yes, so after that. We will be the first to vote on Mr Lukáš Černohorský proposal to include as the first item today a proposal for a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 927 of 12 February 2020. So we're in enough quantity here. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 446, registered by 120 Members, for 91, against 9. The motion was accepted. As a further motion for a vote, we have Mr Jakub Michálek's proposal that prints 565 and 566, which are both related to lobbying, be included tomorrow as those firmly ranked points that are from 11.40 pm. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 447, registered by 120 Members, for 67, against none. The motion was accepted. Now, on the basis of the agreement: yesterday we agreed that before the first fixed item, we would be able to announce the results of yesterday's electoral points, so I will now ask the Vice-President of the Election Commission, Mr Monika Jarošová, to introduce us to the results of the elections held on Wednesday, 16 June before the end of the meeting day. This is a proposal to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic and a proposal to elect a member of the Supervisory Board of the Wine Fund. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-17-ps2017-104-09-001-539.u75	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the results of yesterday's secret election. The first choice that was
