ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u1	2. Government information on the pandemic situation and follow-up I'm asking the Minister of Health Jan Blatný to take the floor, and then I have some priority rights here, and I'm going to start collecting them. Please, Minister, you have the floor. [[There's noise in the room.]] Minister, please, you have the floor. I'll ask the Sněmovna to calm down. We put this point in order to get information, and I think we should get it in peace and attention. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members, allow me to sum up the reasons which lead us to the measures that I will subsequently talk about and also to express whether or not they are in different situations, whether in a crisis or an emergency, a pandemic state, or without both of these standards. I'll try to be brief. At present, the reproductive number is about 1.2 and will be directed towards a higher, estimated to be between 1.3 and 1.4. There is a continuous increase in the number of cases COVID-19, the current daily values are in the interweek comparison - in the interweek comparison! - 25% higher. The current seven-day rolling average of 10 258 is the highest since 13 January 2021. There is more than 30% increase in the interweek comparison in the capital city of Prague, in the Central Bohemia Region, in the Pilsen Region, in the Ústecký Region and in the Zlín Region. The seven-week incidence, or the number of cases per 100,000 inhabitants per seven days, is currently at 671 and is again the highest since 13 January. In 52 districts out of 77 the seven-day incidence is higher than 500 cases per 100,000 inhabitants, and in 17 districts even higher than 1,000 cases per 100,000 inhabitants. The increase in the number of cases in the 65+ age category, currently reported a long-term average of over 1,400, to date even around 2,000 cases, and the highest is this average again in the Central Bohemia Region. I note that when we know that about a third of this risky population will end up in a hospital within 10 days with a high probability, this means that the number of daily hospital income will be around 700 per day over the next week. The situation in the field of hospital care remains highly unfavourable due to the increasing number of general hospitalizations, but in particular the number of patients in severe condition requiring highly intensive care. Currently more than 7,000 patients are hospitalized, approximately 1,400 patients were in intensive care units yesterday and in most regions intensive care units are under pressure. [[13.50 hours]] The whole system is nearing the limit of its capacity, and intensive transfers of patients between individual regions are necessary, without which this system could not work at all, 740 people are on artificial pulmonary ventilation. I'm going to show you at least this way in the form of pictures, three models that are designed according to whether we would only act under the Public Health Act, which basically means dislodgement. I'm gonna show this one here so we can all see it. [[shows the model]] The red curve is what's going to happen, the yellow curve is what's currently happening. In other words, you can see that the yellow and red curves are very consistent. That means the model is a match. When I translate it into numbers, when applying this model, by the end of March, new cases of disease per day would be above 35,000 per day. This second model is how the situation would look when it was a partial strengthening of the measure, it can be roughly translated as if the so-called pandemic law were applied. Once again, I'm going to show you a picture where you can see that the red curve doesn't go all the way up, but it stays on this plateau for quite a while. [[shows]] If I translate it into numbers, then throughout March and probably longer, the estimated daily numbers are over 20,000 daily new diagnoses, and of course the resulting burden of hospitals. In the case of a forceful measure that I'm about to talk about, then there's a third picture where you can see that there's a fundamental break here. [[shows]] This is the third model. But in this case too, please, we have to assume that during the turn of February, March, that is, in the next one to two weeks, the situation will mean another climax to the values of about 20,000 newly diagnosed persons a day, and the resulting burden of hospitals. But it will happen, according to this model, that the situation will reverse and then there will be a fall, so in the second half of March we will be able to be very similar to those that are now, according to this model. So what fundamental measures do we propose to put in place and use to stop this rapid, very rapid and very dangerous spread of the epidemic? Mandatory wearing FFP2 respirators or medical facial masks or similar means in public and in employment. Of course, there are some exceptions that I do not want to interfere with right now, for example for children or for certain risky establishments. Only FFP2 respirators then in stores, in public transport, health facilities and social residence services. Mandatory antigen testing including self-testing for employees in companies. A strong recommendation that all employees for whom this is possible for operational reasons work at a distance, the so-called home office. Closure of all schools and kindergartens and children's groups. Only the existence of designated schools and kindergartens for the necessary professions, such as the staff of the Integrated Rescue System and other components, which we need for crisis management of epidemics, health professionals, etc., will be preserved. Limited sales only to essential goods. I'm not going to read the exceptions now, it's a reduction in the number of open business so far. There is no further prohibition on the provision of services in premises and limited accommodation - there is no change. Continuation of night curfew between 21 and 5 a.m. with limited exceptions. The obligation to move only in the district where the person resides, with exceptions, for example, to travel to employment, to carry out business activities or activities or to visit a medical facility. In those other cases, such as the trip to sports or nature, other restrictions within these districts. It is necessary to ensure that these measures can also be enforced. Without emergency conditions it is absolutely clear that these measures, and therefore even this graph, are not feasible. [[shows the graph]] Without emergency conditions, it is not possible, in particular, to order a night curfew, to limit movement to a specified distance from residence, to limit the clustering of people in the public, and in particular to order a work obligation for the necessary workers, without whom our health system is currently not possible. It would also not be possible to identify schools for the necessary professions, such as staff members of the Integrated Rescue System, paramedics, public health authorities, etc. [[14.00 hours]] I haven't read the paragrafo text here, but I'll recap. These are necessary and mandatory wearing of defined protective equipment, with great emphasis and tightening to at least FFP2 in certain locations. It is a mandatory antigenic testing in businesses, in companies, maximizing home office, closing all educational activities, limiting sales, continuing to stop accommodation, continuing the night curfew and significantly restricting mobility of persons, with the fact that at a time when they will have to for some precisely defined reason, such as a work obligation, travel outside their district, it will be checked. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u3	Thank you. Now I have some priority rights here, but Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Home Secretary Hamáček asked me to supplement this government report, so if no one objects - Mr. Jurečka, who is the first to sign up, says he does not object - I would now give him the floor. I would also like to point out that, if no one opposes, the rapporteur would be the rapporteur of the Výborný Member. So I'd ask him to take his place at the newsstand table. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, at the morning meeting or at the meeting where we discussed the measures planned by the government, the most controversy or the most debate raised measures relating to free movement, so allow me to explain it in several sentences, because I believe that this is what the explanation requires, and it will be our task in the coming hours and days to explain carefully to all our citizens how to proceed. Minister Blatný has informed us all here about the situation in terms of increasing hospitalization, in terms of bed cover, intensive care beds, and it is evident that this is the only recipe - a recipe that has been used and used everywhere in the world, and that is a rapid reduction in mobility. We as the Ministry of the Interior of course worked with the assignment to find solutions that will be effective and which will be controllable or enforceable. Since there is no consensus in society or government as to whether or not these restrictive measures should apply to industry, we have a relatively limited scope, and therefore, from the logic of the matter, the main restriction must be to the mobility of the population. When we were looking for the right solution for the Czech Republic, we studied the measures applied and applied by EU countries. We looked at the Portuguese model, Spanish, French, Irish, German. Each country has its specifics either in terms of some conditions for mobility or in terms of demonstration, but if we are looking for a common denominator, it is a very forceful restriction. Therefore, we come up with restrictions on movement outside the counties. Again, we say it's an emergency measure, it's an extreme measure and it's a time-limited measure. We believe, and Minister Blatný showed you on those curves that if we last three weeks together, the desired effect will come and the curve will break. That would, of course, be good news for both our paramedics and de facto everyone, because at least there would be hope that after those three weeks, plus, of course, some necessary incubation time, the burden that is put on our paramedics could finally fall, and we could focus, of course, at a time of limitation, but even then, on the main objective, and that is to inoculate the maximum population. Therefore, I understand that the measure is controversial, that the measure will create a great deal of debate, but from our point of view it is absolutely necessary. The purpose of this measure is not to bully anyone, terrorize anyone. The purpose of this measure is primarily to appeal to our citizens to realise the gravity of the situation, and, as I say, more or less the whole crisis, they stayed at home. I understand that no one's having any fun, that everyone wants to travel, visit their friends, kids want to go to the playground, especially if the weather gets better, but we just have to hang in there for a while. Therefore, we go with restrictions on movement outside the districts, within the districts, and unfortunately, every material somehow arises, each material is subjected to some discussion, so there are different working versions. We introduced one of those versions at the meeting this morning, and it's already in the media that the Home Office wants to limit the movement to a kilometer from home. Yes, it was one of the work versions. I'm assuming that Ireland is five kilometers away, there are countries that are 500 meters away. We worked with that one kilometer in the case of trips to nature or sports. We discussed this with colleagues from the opposition. We realize that this is very forceful and very hard, therefore the material will admit changes and the final proposal is that, if people want to spend part of their free time outside their residence, they typically want to run, ride a bike, walk to move in the cadastral of the particular village in which they live. That means it won't be limited by kilometers, but we agreed that if we apply the border or the cadastral of the village in which they live, it's bearable. I also suggest that Prague will be the easiest place to take Prague as one village and not share it in the cadastral territory, because it is about 120, but simply say that those people will move within the borders for the purpose of sports and trips to nature, if you will, to the village in which they live. As regards trips outside the district, there is a clear indication of what purpose. This means that we do not limit the trips to employment, plus there are several other exceptions. Except for the way to work where we assume that the employee is able to prove that he is employed, either by employment contract or by some card or by any other way where the address of the company is written, so for other exceptions - the trip to purchase, the journey to take care of a close person, the journey to the doctor, the journey to the office if he leads outside the district - we came up with a solution that is in France. This means a citizen before leaving his residence, so on a piece of paper, if you will, he will write a simplified form of a declaration of honor, stating when he is leaving the apartment and where he is going, or the exception he is using, and in the event of a check, he will submit it to the police, so there should be some possibility of making excuses on the spot. It is a paper-hard solution, but I must say that it worked very well in France, and it is a solution less invasive to privacy than, for example, the Greek model, when people had to send text messages and wait for approval or some other models. So we've also been looking for a model that's the least invasive to the privacy of our residents. So this is probably the hardest measure to explain. Of course, the Police of the Czech Republic, even if it were 100% strengthened by the army, cannot stand on all roads, cannot stand on all railway lines, cannot stand everywhere, so primary compliance will be on our citizens. And I simply refuse to accept that our citizens are those who do not respect 100 percent. I believe that the vast majority of people will understand the urgency of the measure and will follow it, and if the police proceed by random checks, or by some targeted checks in larger numbers and larger areas, it will only be a procedure that will add to the emphasis or urgency of the entire material, but I believe that 90 per cent or more, ideally almost 100 per cent of our population perceives the problem, perceives the urgency and perceives the enormous pressure on intensive care units and our paramedics. Basically, it's about keeping people home, and when they go out to take the respirator, they help our paramedics. I believe I've explained it enough. Of course, police or police will be given instructions on how to proceed. I understand that a number of our residents live elsewhere than their permanent residence listed in the citizen. That means, of course, those police officers will approach the matter with consideration, and all it takes is a citizen travelling outside the district where he lives, but does not have a permanent address, to prove otherwise that he lives there. From my point of view, and it will be taxatively listed in that manual, the real estate gas receipt, the electricity receipt, the bank statement that was directed to that address in the district or another charter, and I'm sure our citizens will meet with understanding, because I say again, the aim is not to bully anyone, and we all believe that our citizens will primarily respect that. [[14.10 hours]] So thank you for your attention. I felt it my duty to explain this measure to you in this way, because there will be many questions. But believe me, we've been thinking for a long time about what solution to choose. And I'm sure there's a whole bunch of ideas about how to do it differently. But I believe that's how it will fulfill the purpose that we expect from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening a general debate to which I have signed up with priority rights, I will do a small recapitulation: First will be President Marian Jurečka, then will be prepared by President Vojtěch Filip, then the President of the Pirates Club, Mr Jakub Michálek, with the opinion of the KSČM Club Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and with the opinion of the ODS Club Mr Kupka. I have two factual points here that I will delete because the general debate has not been opened before. And I will ask President Jurečka to take the floor first with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u6	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We're tired, we're frustrated, we're exhausted, we're clueless, we're sick of it, we don't see hope, we can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. These are the most common emotions I've heard from people in weeks. I hear it from my parents, old people, I hear it from people who work as paramedics. I hear it actually across all the professions and all the generations. I also hear it from young people, from my children as a father of five children - children who are already looking forward to going back to school, among their classmates. And we're really in a very difficult situation because we have over 140 days of emergency here, things aren't getting any better. On the contrary, in the last seven or eight days, the situation has become dramatically worse. It's very hard when you hear: Let's keep our teeth shut, let's wait three more weeks! When we heard a year ago: Let's brush our teeth, let's endure Easter, we'll enjoy it in a year! Let's not let the second wave haunt us, there won't be any, there'll never be a lockdown! It's very hard to hear when we heard: Let's survive Christmas! It'll be better after the New Year. And I understand the enormous frustration of people who, for example, haven't spent the last four months, but the last 11 months have stopped living, can't go to work, and are in very difficult situations economically, socially, mentally. Because as the people say: That's really crazy! But we're standing here in a situation where we're obviously seeing an increase in numbers this week, that despite all of this, as we all are, we're going to have to really take very generous steps to do our utmost to make those who are fighting for our lives, to get the chance to handle it all, because they're the most exhausted and exhausted. They serve outside the labor code, they make sure it works at all. And what my colleague Volný and some of the former politicians, including one unnamed president, were doing here an hour ago, are all such powerful screams until the people themselves or the surrounding area get critical and they need help fighting for their lives. Then it's all over. So we, whether we are opposition or coalition, are really in a very extreme situation here - the situation of a nation that is at its worst in the world in terms of the number of infected and the number of dead. We take turns for this unflattering primacy with Belgium. We are in a situation where, unfortunately, we are not able to inoculate completely ideally, but we believe that it will break in two or three weeks, improve that our regions, the captains are prepared, the mayors are prepared. And that it will definitely break. But I have a few notes I'd like to make to the government here. I'm sorry that the key measures that we all expect to take are going to make us teeth now, and we'll last three weeks to get them half an hour before the House's meeting. I lack, for example, a comparison if some measures were not taken, which means, perhaps, that kindergartens would not be closed, but some other activities still running within the production sector would be closed. If the measures weren't more effective and maybe even cheaper in the final context. Okay, the government has decided to go this way. But please nicely, a few things we've been saying here for over four months, and I wonder why they didn't happen sooner. Even in the last 14 days, when we take it - and some here have been blaming us for escalating this situation 14 days ago - what really happened from the government's point of view to making the pandemic better? What really happened in 14 days? The meeting of families that are not in one household has been reduced, and you have made arrangements to wear respirators or two surgical drapes. Finally, the two surgical drapes withdrew, so no longer the surgical drapes that were distributed in the number of 7.5 million pieces to the food banks, the measure was useless. I'm just wondering why some things couldn't have been sooner. Mandatory testing in companies is correct. And please, nicely here, for you, for the government, for the Minister of Industry and Trade and for other economic ministers, communicate with company representatives! It's terribly wrong for you to read today's interviews by some company directors who say they're testing, tracking doesn't care that it's a matter of state. We need to pull those Opinion Leaders into co-accountability and create conditions, environment and financial for companies to handle it. It is necessary for testing in companies to be linked to the overall tracking, whether the system is connected or not. To do that, you need to know these answers. I'm sorry that testing and tracking after 11 months still doesn't work today and it's more of a parody for a smart quarantine. We ask nicely, respirators and suckers to make available to those who don't have the funds. Maybe even through a network of food banks. But make it possible for those people who really don't have the money. When we talk about self-testing and this possibility, which will also be made possible to employees in companies, consider this possibility so that self-testing can be widely used for families, so that families can do it, within their families. It would also help to bring the responsibility of these people to a common solution in a significant way. And I have a big request: if you publish these measures, you've already started last night, figure out the clarity that is meant for people, for all of us, to understand it, to see it, but also for those who will control it. So there aren't 14 different systems of control and access to these things, but just to be clear, clear. It shows the story from this morning: presented one kilometer of restriction of movement. We have warned that it seems illogical to us in some situations of life for these people. Now we're hearing a new one: During the run, it's settled, restrictions on the cadastral. Here I would like to point out to the Home Secretary that a large number of cities are not equal to one cadastral. You can't get to Rudolfinum from the Office of the Government in Prague, they're different cadasters. Parisian is a few cadastrals. Other cities in the Czech Republic also form several cadastrals. Remember that! Look at this and give it some logical framework. But unfortunately, it's just a demonstration of how it's formed during the run and how the opponent is created so quickly and it's not good. It's not happy! We appeal very much to the next step that we lack here for 11 months: managed cooperation between government and Czech brains, Czech scientists and Czech companies. We're top of the world's nanotechnologies. We have companies that have made their turnover harder in the last 11 months, but I do lack technological coherence here so that these technologies can be linked to schools, kindergartens, medical facilities, so that we can fight the epidemic through the technologies that we have here today. I would like to ask that the justification that the government may be making in the new declaration of emergency - and I believe that the resolution that will be adopted here on this point will create a clear legal framework so that, if necessary, such a step can be taken safely by the government - so that it is handled in a good way, so that there will be no better lawyers here than the government and than the government team, when they can destroy what the government has done by the Ministry of Justice and the Government's Legislative Council. So please pay really great attention to both the individual measures, the steps and the whole announcement that you will possibly do in the next few days to justify it well. So this is a few specific petitions, suggestions, suggestions that we have given for the long term under the KDU-ČSL, for our coalition of the SPOLU, within the AntiCovid team, but also within what we hear only since this morning and we draw attention to some logical shortcomings in how the fight against the pandemic is conducted. Because it's gonna be a huge fiasco, and then you can't appeal to any more people's trust if in two, three weeks, those numbers really don't get any better. And it's just gonna be pure frustration. And then you have to ask yourself if this country with such a government has any perspective in the coming weeks and days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, too. Mr David Kasal came forward with a point of fact. And he will be prepared - with priority rights will be given by President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleague Jurečka, I have listened very carefully to you, and I can tell you some things I can agree with, but some of them - I will say very clearly. What is the difference between Portugal and us, when the numbers were similar to Portugal, or even higher, when they were on the verge of having four intensive beds? I was there this weekend because I was there on business. And there's a difference between what's there and what's there and that's where everything goes. That's where everything was closed. All the tools they were, those people were carrying. If I take it from my office, when my mom comes in with a kid who's sick, she has angina, and she tells me we're on vacation -- how you said it was forbidden now that she's not going anywhere -- she says to me, "Well, we're going to the mountains, so I say, "To her cabin?" No, there are five dads with five kids from all over the country. That's the respect we're talking about. The elemental observance. And if everyone doesn't reach into their own conscience and abide by it, then any government order, any law won't help us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u9	Thank you. And at this moment, the chairman of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will start out untraditionally. I don't like doing this, but this time I'm gonna do it. I will read one of the e-mails I received that stands for thought: "You know, I imagine the emergency situation quite differently. Everything works in minimum sufficiency mode, but crisis management works in 24 hours, 7 days a week at 110 percent, looking for effective solutions and creating maximum material, time and space conditions for implementing the necessary measures. But the way it works here is that management bans everything, waits to see what happens, and he does what he wants. He's minding his own private business, and he's not following his own decisions. It is hard to believe that what they invent serves to eliminate the threat. If you don't believe it, just look at the dance with the tests around the schools where the tests are and so on." I think that's enough as an example. I could quote others. But the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia tried in any case to help in this and to create sufficient time and material space for the government to do everything possible to cope with the pandemic. But our words didn't come up, we didn't ask for anything, and the time provided wasn't used. Why do I say that? Because it's obvious that these measures are not accepted by the public. It is a loss of people's willingness to submit to what they do not consider possible to continue to accept without seeing any visible objective of the solution. We said that it was necessary for responsibility to be divided. When we proposed to the government in January to allow people to be out in the fresh air to open winter grounds under some conditions, I know it's usually narrowed down to being ski resorts, but it's every outdoor playground that can be used, so we were ridiculed. And when we talked again about bringing the kids back to school, we were told that it wasn't possible and that they weren't tested for it, and I'm saying that they don't treat the tests. If the government was already saying in October that we would clearly be heading towards enough vaccine and that there would be a plan - I saw the plan, it ends in June of this year, when the Czech society should be vaccinated - so I thought: well, we want the final target sometime in June, when it should be reduced rapidly both disease and contagion. But the government did not react in any way, even when it was clear that the European Commission was trying to take on additional powers, to reduce them to individual national states, and lies to citizens about making a pharmaceutical policy together. It's obviously gone bankrupt. At the same time, pharmaceutical policy, health care is nothing that is centralized in Europe. It's always a matter of national states. Whoever does not believe me should study the Treaty of Lisbon. Then why do we have an SÚKL? Why do we suffer from the fact that the director of SÚKLU will say that she won't certify the vaccine and that she will wait for it to be certified in Europe? What are we paying her for? That he doesn't want to do his job and bear his responsibility? Why is he still sitting there? I do not understand this because, of course, the government can replace the principal at any time and put someone there who wants to bear responsibility and who will be able to do so. Even in neighboring countries, patience has run out. Austrian doctors say they're trying to buy themselves a Russian vaccine so they have something to vaccinate. Why, in a way, are we not able to do the same? What are we afraid of? Are we afraid we can't bear the responsibility? How, then, are people to believe that the steps that lead to restricting their options lead to that goal? You know, I got one e-mail, and I don't want to quote it here, just reminding me that the writer is writing to me how it is possible that I haven't yet threatened Section 275 of the Penal Code, and that is a violation of the obligation in a terrible state of distress. The Minister of Health here has said how difficult the situation is, how difficult it is to deal with, but that we need to follow these measures. But in that case, we need to tell people whether we're going to buy the vaccines or wait for them to be delivered to us graciously from Amsterdam or from Brussels. But it's not a matter of waiting. That's our responsibility. And if I want to bear the responsibility of prolonging or not prolonging the emergency situation, then I have to say clearly whether I have any solution that leads to the goal - inoculation of society so that people can go to work, children to school, so that people can go on living normally without the restrictions that the pandemic has brought. And I'm not here for one vaccine. I don't care if it's AstraZeneca vaccine or if it's Sputnik V or Sinovac. My point is that the government must at least ensure that its own goal is met so that the vaccination takes place by June. But in that case, he can't wait to be SÚKL and do nothing. [[14.30 hours]] I'd like to remind you of one thing. If the chieftains did not want to take responsibility and went back to the government to ask for an emergency, they should also have taken their political parties and said whether we would go together in a fight with the pandemic or not. None of the political parties who had the opportunity to provide the government's material needs to combat pandemics raised their hand, except for the government parties and us, for the state budget amendment to be there. But how is that possible? What are we playing about here? So either you want it to be here, and in that case, you have to bear the consequences that you need to raise your hand for the state budget, or you don't, and in that case, don't say nice words about how you'd do it better. Turns out the authorities need a government, and they need an emergency. I am of the opinion that we are in a completely new situation here, not only because there is a new mutation in South Africa, Brazil and we do not know what mutations will come if we delay vaccination and vaccination. That's the nature of the new situation. I do not intend to bail out the unconstitutional process, but I believe that if we propose and recommend to the government to declare a new emergency situation and to make a programme that will lead to vaccination, which will lead to taking the initiative and thus be able to meet the commitments, it will also be possible to restore people's confidence that this can be dealt with. Let's just drop the last emergency and hope that the pandemic law will sort this out for us. He's not gonna figure it out. It will only be solved by joint work and joint responsibility, and I call on it because it is important for us to be able to do so. Just get the State Drug Control Office to authorize the use of vaccines here, as well as other vaccines, other than the European Medicines Agency so far, and let us act at least as neighbors from Austria or Hungary. At least. We could behave better, because I believe our experts have the power to do so, but they must not be afraid to bear the responsibility. And if the Minister of Education is unable to provide tests for schools, perhaps the Prime Minister should replace him. The Foreign Minister is sitting here saying nothing about the fact that our neighbouring states - or have already left - have closed our borders. We don't need to close our borders for our citizens, they're gonna shut our neighbors down because they're gonna say we can't handle pandemics. But that's not a good picture. Did he even deal with the neighboring states, or did he leave it up to the Prime Minister? I don't know what he did when we know that 40,000 people who work mostly in their social and health systems go there every day. But he doesn't care. I don't understand why we tolerate him. I'd still have to talk about how we've progressed in other systems. If we continue to stand idly by and let people think that an emergency is needed mainly because of purchases without a selection procedure, we will not be able to gain citizens' confidence. It needs to be changed forcefully. It should be said that we will buy vaccines, that we have a plan and that the vaccination will take place. I spoke with my friend, former MEP and our colleague Jiří Maštálka, who, if he does not work as a doctor in a spa facility, will inoculate. Yesterday he inoculated 106 people and it's a mobile vaccination center, it was even on TV. And he says people want the vaccine. This means that it's up to us to secure enough vaccines, that's the task of the center, and then they wanted from the regions, because hospitals are the facilities mostly of the county except for faculty hospitals to ensure it, either in the vaccination centers or through doctors in the front line, that is, practices. And they're ready for it. Then why don't we give them enough vaccines? Why are we focusing on being approved in Amsterdam? Are our people worse than those sitting in Amsterdam? I don't think they're even better, and that they may understand that expertise more than anyone in the entire 27th grade. We just have to give them a chance to make it work. I don't want to talk long. I am convinced that we will conclude the chapter that is here, go ahead, 27th, and I am asking the government to withdraw from its jurisdiction the proposal for a revision of the previous resolution - I do not wish it, I do not wish for a procedure that could be the subject of a constitutional complaint and other litigation, but I wish that, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of the Czech Republic, we give people a new hope that will give them a chance to see the famous light at the end of the tunnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to add some information to my honored colleague, President of the KSČM. The government did a lot. It wasn't easy. Because by being a member of KS COVID Professor Black, we talked about vaccines in April. We've been tasked with guessing how many vaccines we're gonna need. At that time, not one vaccine was ready. It was necessary to separate someone from whom to order in a certain way. And it wasn't about ordering from just one person, because it could turn out the way it turns out that some of the productions were simply delayed, or some of the results weren't as fast as they were thought. The second thing - the purchase at the beginning through the European Union was unfortunately necessary, because the big players had much bigger shoulders and would get much more, so there was really nothing else to do at the time. On the other hand, I currently agree that if I hear from the reports that AstraZeneca will only deliver 90 out of 180 million doses, then our duty is really to secure those benefits. And on the other hand, the health system is ready. If practical doctors, and I count only 5,000 people, were to inoculate 20 people a day five days a week, they would inoculate 70 percent of the population within five and a half months of being a vaccination center, that would have been sooner. Otherwise, the vaccination capacity with other experts who would have vaccinated is 2,9 million per month. But it's not a vaccine, and it needs to be secured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u13	Thank you for your time, and at this moment, President Jakub Michálek will speak with priority rights. Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared with the opinion of the club KSČM. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take this briefly. We've all seen on the data that the situation has deteriorated considerably. It makes no sense to blame citizens for being undisciplined. Of the large majority, this is really involved in the increase in reproductive numbers for new mutations, or we are at risk of an increase of tens of percent of hospitalized and then of course the availability of health care. But if we go back to what we are going to decide here today, or to extend the emergency situation, as the government has asked for it, we must also come out of what has been said for criticism from constitutional lawyers, because the law and the Constitution must be followed first, and the measures that are really necessary at this point - I am not saying that specifically in the form in which the government is considering them, but it is clear that we must seek a reduction in social contacts and that it is necessary for the government to order measures by authority, because otherwise it will certainly not improve itself. The procedure must still be in accordance with the Constitution, it must be competent. The emergency situation, which was last declared, was attacked on the grounds that the justification was the same as the previous emergency situation and it was a clean extension, although the Chamber of Deputies clearly declared its will that it did not want an extension of the emergency situation. So this "damaged" emergency situation would really be better to throw away now and to pursue further action in accordance with the Constitution and not endanger the validity of those measures that will be decided by the court, if necessary, so that the measure and the entire legal regime will stand. I really think that the government should at this point consider declaring a new emergency, which would be based on the changed epidemiological situation and, on the one hand, that the Chamber of Deputies did not approve the pandemic law. I will draw attention to the fact that today the fresh judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which assessed the spring judgment of the City Court in Prague, is that the City Court in Prague has assessed the legal issue of issuing emergency measures under the Public Health Act incorrectly, or that it has not been switched into a regime that the government should necessarily issue it all, but that it is in order and in accordance with the Public Health Act if it is issued by the Ministry of Health, and it will, of course, be within the limits of the list that the law regulates. This argument is, of course, probably transferable by analogy to the pandemic law, which means that it will be possible to decide according to the pandemic law. It is not true that all measures would necessarily need to be transferred to a crisis law, and I do not think that this will even be possible for some of them. In the context of a new emergency situation, the government should not only justify how the epidemiological situation has deteriorated - I think that this is manageable and that the Ministry already reflects that, from the point of view of the court and in order to do so, it is necessary to complete the reasoning, as we pointed out from April last year - and, at the same time, in accordance with the Security Act, it should be clearly regulated what rights are restricted in accordance with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, or what obligations are imposed beyond what is possible under the pandemic law. I wanted to remind you that we have come up with our own proposals on how to deal with the crisis. We handed it over to the government, including the testing in the companies that the government - I am happy - took over for the most part, and of course there is also the question of controls, isolation and quarantine, because according to the data we saw from January, only every fiveth isolation or quarantine is controlled and in one third of the cases a breach is detected. That is, if covid is spreading to us the most in the world, let's focus on standard practices that are proven by centuries of practice, that is, quarantine, isolation - and that is where we should primarily focus our attention to follow all the rules - and let's not play here to control people in parks and to solve the covid. On the contrary, those very limited police and army capacities should be focused, among other things, on controlling the quarantine and isolation regime, and it is not possible for every third person in isolation to travel outside and then spread the disease. There is a problem, and today it is unfortunately so that all these persons control the regional sanitary stations, which are now overloaded by the fact that they deal with tracking and that they solve a lot of other things, and they still have to control quarantine and isolation. This really doesn't make sense, and I wanted to ask the government to actually address this problem. In the other comments that we have sent, we have pointed out that it is already necessary to prepare the logistics of vaccinations, because, fortunately, we are succeeding in increasing the expected number of vaccines and other matters. After all, the issue of enforcement can also be seen here, at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, where we are unable to deal with the fact that two colleagues here do not carry respirators and drapes and basically can also be the spreader of the disease here, in the Chamber itself. I think that's a very bad example for society. We should deal with such matters, too, and we're already working on it. So we've been constructive about this. In addition to our own proposals, which mayor and I have sent to the government, we have also today sent further comments on the proposals that the government is preparing, with which it has introduced us today. Minister Blatný has it at his disposal. Well, that's more of a, let's just say, small matter. There is more to point out that a ban on movement, whether it is issued, whether it is formulated as a radius of 1 km from home or a movement in the village cadastral, will certainly cause great criticism. If, of course, in some form of restrictions on movement are definitely needed, the question is whether the situation in which we are in this strict will be accepted. These are somewhat, let's say, repressive. In a situation in which we have a completed emergency situation here, which the Chamber of Deputies has already decided, and it has come out in the Collection of Laws, it seems to me the most sensible thing for us to issue a resolution essentially as a recommendation for a further government procedure to deal with the situation and to follow up on what constitutional lawyers recommend. I consulted them on this and discussed this issue in detail on the Grémium, where it prevailed that it would suffice if the Chamber of Deputies approved a resolution stating that the power to re-pronounce an emergency is on the side of the government, on the ground that there has been a substantial change in circumstances. So it will not only be an extension of the previous emergency, which has been declared dubiously, but indeed with a justification that will be unique and which will take into account the change in circumstances that occurred in the field, on the one hand, by having new mutations and, on the other, from the point of view of legislation, by having a new legal framework for the pandemic law. On this point, I therefore submit a motion for a resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that after the emergency has ended on 27. 2. 2021 is to declare a new emergency situation in order to take action against the spread of an epidemic beyond the framework of the pandemic law following the spread of new mutations of coronavirus and the decreasing capacity of the health system within the competence of the government.' So the government should consider whether and to what extent a new emergency situation is needed, and on this basis take action and take measures that are of course good to consult with the opposition, and we are sending comments there, but primarily it is the responsibility of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u15	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u16	My esteemed colleague, colleagues, I would like, through Mr President, to tell my predecessor that it really depends on how we behave in our private lives. Believe that most employers and most employees follow all measures. I can say quite responsibly that few employers will allow it to not work in his race, because at that point, neither would he. But the biggest problem is bringing infection to the race from home environment. I don't know if you're walking the streets, you're seeing what's happening, you're driving around the county, you're seeing what's going on. I see it all the time. I'm getting a call from the cops, they're texting me what they see on the cameras, what's going on in the cities, what's going on in the leisure activities and so on and so on. I see it every step of the way myself. [[14.50 hours]] And believe me, it's all about us. It's not about whether we make better or worse regulations. It's about us, if what we can summon when it comes to elections, so that we can do it now. All Members - go among the people, reach out to entrepreneurs and executives so that they can work on their employees. Of course, we can't convince everyone, but I believe that if we all do it together, we can do it, but not by writing a better or worse law, but by acting responsibly. And that's what my previous performance was about, and read what the reporters pulled out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u17	Thank you for keeping time to a point of fact. I will read an apology, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip apologizes today, 26. 2. from 16.45 until the end of the day for personal reasons. At the moment Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček will speak with the KSČM club's opinion. And I have a factual remark from Mr. Jan Hrnčíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just like to respond briefly to the words of the previous speakers who fell here. Indeed, our Republic is in a very bad epidemiological situation. Unfortunately, the solution is not lockdowns and flat closures, even the Austrian chancellor understood that people are simply exhausted and cannot continue to do so. [[The speaker's out of breath.]] I'm sorry, I'm kind of choking on the respirator. I myself have experience with covid, I have experience with the covid of my entire family, because my wife cares for covid patients, so it was only a matter of time before we got infected. It's not really a cold, it's not funny, it really doesn't make sense to underestimate it. But there's something we need to do to help these people. The problem is, people are defenseless. There's basically nothing they can treat in any way. Paralene, Ibalgin, tea just can't handle it. I would like to appeal to the Minister of Health Blatný, if he is listening to me to try to make sure that at least the medicines that increase the body's immune response, which is what is needed by Isoprinosine - it is tried, it works in Poland - that it is available to people, not only to prescription with difficulty, but to buy it in pharmacies, because it is a medicine that is enough in hospitals, they will give it to patients when they get there, when they already have problems, when they already have damaged lungs, when they are already gasping for breath, and at that point an increased immune response does not help, on the contrary, they will kill them. Whereas if these people had the opportunity to take it at the beginning of the disease, severe cases would be reduced, as in Poland. That's just the way it is. Four times the size of the country has half the death rate, significantly fewer patients who are in severe condition. So I would ask that there really be an opportunity, at least in some way, to be treated effectively in the beginning. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u19	Thank you. Now there's room for an opinion from the KSČM club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Colleagues and Colleagues, each of us has some professional work history here. Well, basically not all of us, but let's say most of us do. My work history has always told me that when someone talks about something very comprehensively and for a long time, that I should be careful about it and ask myself why they do it and whether I should look for something in it. As a relatively longtime investigator, I was always used to asking questions and looking for answers. Of course, I don't want to question the medical expertise you're talking about, but there are a number of questions I need to answer myself, and I also need to answer people when they ask my opinion. I hear here - and I have to say when it started: on Wednesday, when I arrived here in the Chamber of Deputies this morning, I listened to about four messages during the 150 kilometers, and I listened to what the government agreed that we would basically follow the pandemic law, and I listened to all those statements. The Central Crisis Staff was supposed to start at 10:00, so I was already sitting in the office, and two minutes later they announced that the head of the Central Crisis Staff was in the government and that we couldn't. But I was on forty-four, so I did my work on thousands and others, because I didn't have another appointment until this afternoon. When I was listening to that 44-year-old girl, suddenly something, as they say, poked me under the rib, I look and it basically Pinocchio nose from my point of view. I was suddenly listening to the press release or the government's appearance after the government's meeting, and I was not surprised by the change that had taken place. All we need is a pandemic law, and all of a sudden, we're talking basically about catastrophic scenarios, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Hamáček can talk about freezer cars, and I don't know what all hundreds of corpses are about, and I don't know, hallway treatments. And all of a sudden, I'm looking at it and I'm saying, what's changed? What changed that I suddenly heard something completely different than I heard on the way to Prague this morning on four messages that I heard in two and a half or two and a quarter hours? I've been listening for a while, and today, basically, the Minister of Health has presented those catastrophic scenarios that will follow, unless we announce, extend, or I see now that you've agreed, so you're going to issue a declaration to declare a new emergency. Data's gotten a lot worse, that's what you're talking about. Minister Blatný basically talked about the numbers in his opening speech and, of course, I'm used to analyzing the materials I've always worked with, so I started analyzing the materials that are available on the Ministry of Health's website, or those I'm getting as a member of the Central Crisis Staff, that is, daily seduces or, if you like, daily reports. When I looked at the daily reports and the numbers that we're talking about here - and those are the numbers that the Minister of Health was talking about - the day it started, Pinocchio, as I say, had 87,000 tests, 87,000 tests, of which 39,000 were PCR tests. Of the 39,000 PCR tests, 15,500 -- I'm rounding it up, don't take it exactly, maybe there's an extra hundred or taken out -- 15,500 was positive. At 87,000 of those 15,500, it's about 18 percent, not one fifth of the number of tests. If we started to mention it, the media suddenly started talking: No, no, we're not comparing all the tests, we're not interested in antigen tests, because they're such or poppy, we're just comparing PCR tests. And we talked - and I listened to it - we crossed 40 percent of the disease for the first time. [[unintelligible]] I say, like, 40 percent? 87,000 - yes, then they said, we're counting only PCR tests. Okay, 39 is a little over 40 percent. The next day, 25, 85,000 tests were performed, 37,000 of which were PCR tests, 13,500 positives. If I take the number of positives and the number of tests carried out 85,000 again, I have 16 percent of the disease rate. But if I compare only those PCR tests that they told me were the most important number, the 40 percent, then 37 of those 13.5 are only 38 percent. That means it's been down two days, and the next day no one's talked about it, because 40 percent was important for the call, because for the first time we crossed 40 percent. Well, as it happens, when you're doing something, I looked into the development of the statistics and all that stuff, so I looked at the beginning of the year. 5. 1. - antigen tests haven't been done yet, so they haven't been used yet, and PCR tests with 5. 1. performed 41,500. At that point, the result of positive testing was 17,000, 1,500 more than the 24th, when the government began to talk about the major deterioration of the situation, which means 41.5 percent - 41.5 percent! [[15.00 hours]] And we can look at the days before with a view, these are all the things you find on the Ministry of Health's website, if you want to devote time and attention to it, there are beautiful developments. It's just that... for me, it's a game and juggling numbers. What comes in handy at that point is said, and what doesn't work out in that moment will be kept quiet. So sometimes a seven-day cycle is used, sometimes a 14-day cycle is used, sometimes it's taken to 100,000, and sometimes it's said to be a total number. So if I imagine that today is done plus minus 87,000 to 85,000 tests and we have 15,500 positives, so if we want to cause even more panic, let's do it -- and everywhere the result is 15, 16, 17, 18 percent, just until one fifth -- so let's see if we're going to run 120,000, 150,000 tests or 200,000 tests. If we get 200,000 tests, 18 percent will be some 36,000 people infected. Well, that's gonna be a cool number. Everybody's got to jump at it. I don't think that should be a problem. We've finally got the tests, we're gonna start doing the testing, I hope, the self-testing and more. So I'm asking, what's been getting so much worse, what's getting so much worse, what's going on so much? If I look back at - and of course, they talk, I don't deny at all that the covid here is, that there are new mutations, English, that South African and Brazilian and Czech-Slovak, it's just going to change anyway. But if I look again at the overview, again at the Ministry of Health's website, the overview of the bed care, updated yesterday two minutes before 5:00 p.m. before I went on the evening show, I see that the capacity, the ECMO's spare capacity, that's the extracorporeal ventilation - I'm not a doctor, maybe I'm saying it wrong - the spare capacity is 35 instruments, 41 percent. Complete pulmonary ventilation, capacity available is 683 - 29 percent. Most often it is mentioned - and again the number that is most important to us, because if we want to trigger the bomb here, these are ARO beds plus the ICU adults. The spare capacity is now 584, but these are all beds. We must also say that we must preserve something for someone getting hurt in a car accident and so on, simply injury. That means, today's covid beds, for the positive ones, are some 158 beds, we're talking about a 14 percent capacity. The minister points out that if we don't do anything about it now, quickly, fundamentally, we'll get there within a week, within 14 days, in 20 days, until we're at 5%, which is a total health-care collapse. I looked at the data, at the beginning of January, when the numbers were significantly higher, because we can't compare PCR tests to antigen tests, as it suits the government, because we got to 40 percent, so at that moment the beds were 17 percent or 17 or something. That means we've moved by two, three percentage points. If we go through this development, of course we're moving somewhere, but it's certainly not the catastrophic scenario that's being presented to us here. I don't want to question the numbers at all, I don't want to say there's no covid here. But at the same time, when we talk about the 20,000 dead, where we've basically lost the classic respiratory disease, like the flu since 2019, or if you want it from 2020. Because we always know that there were some seasonal flu problems and the other things that are related to it, and that unfortunately, there were a lot of people dying from the flu. When I looked at the statistics of the State Health Institute, the National Reference Laboratory report from week 21 to week 24 of 2020 states that, for the influenza and non-flu respiratory restrictions, the processing of data in Europe essentially ceased at week 20. This means, since the 20th week of 2020, we have not registered - Europe does not register - any flu diseases, but therefore death from flu diseases. Last report from the State Health Institute of 16. 2., that means a week, 10 days ago, says 36 countries out of 41 have zero activity in the influenza. That means 36 countries out of 41 ransacked the flu, and the flu doesn't exist. Only Azerbaijan, Slovakia, Portugal, Ukraine, England record the flu. I'm asking if we've really managed to eradicate the flu, or if the people who are covid, if it's any other form, are dying of the flu. I know you can laugh, of course, but these are things that are pretty important to me. It's unbelievable, but if you answer me why we don't have the flu, I'll be very happy for you. And that's why I said I wouldn't argue with the technical stuff, but answer me why there hasn't been a flu in the Czech Republic for a year and a half. If you answer that question, I'd be very happy. As usual, the Minister and Vice Prime Minister Hamáček say: We still have to endure this for a while. Yes, I've heard that sentence about six or seven times. So we're going to last another three weeks or a month that, dear colleagues from the democratic opposition and the pirát, this time you're going to give a blank check again, and we're going to meet at the end of March and we're going to hear the same sentence, maybe frame it somewhere: the situation hasn't improved completely, we have to endure it for a while. And then there are the measures that we're talking about here. We proposed the return of children to the first degree, that is, third, fourth grade, and of course, we wanted to test. The government, even though it promised, is unable to do virtually nothing. Instead, we now come up with the fact that it is a catastrophic health care that it is collapsing, but dozens and hundreds of doctors travel to Germany and Austria, including lower medical personnel, but I don't think we can reach them, so we call on mothers who are on maternity leave, or they are older nurses, and they have the expertise to get back to work to help the dying system. But at the same time, we are declaring measures to say that children of the first, second classes and children of kindergartens will stay at home. Well, there are dozens and hundreds of moms, or dads who work in health care. I know you're gonna say, "But we said the IZS preschools are gonna work." Yes, here in Prague, Brno, in statutory cities, or perhaps it will work. But if I take the district of Trutnov, the district hospital of Trutnov, where work is done, say, on a 12-hour shift, the nurse gets in the morning at 6:00 and goes to work for, like, 15, 20 kilometers, so not all the nurses live in that town. The kid's gonna be up at 4:00, 5:00 to take him to a preschool in Trutnov? Who's picking up the baby? How's this gonna work? Well, the nurse or the attending staff will probably stay home, too. We'll call the army, we'll call the police, we'll call the firemen, there's plenty of them, we can do it all. During the spring wave, my fellow colleagues, we did well, but also because we were communicating with the Ministry of Justice, it was possible that the plague did not go to prison. Now look at the daily report. It's not a prison that doesn't have dozens and hundreds of people infected, but including members of the Prison Service. Who dragged the plague into our prisons? Either members or civilian employees who work in prisons or external companies that go there to do business. And we're already hearing that the prison service says, "We're about to collapse, we're gonna need help." Help. And who can help the prison service? According to the law that we recently passed -- good thing we passed the law -- it can only be the Police of the Czech Republic. So we will send a certain number of members of the Police of the Czech Republic to assist the Prison Service. [[15.10 hours]] And I'm not talking about a situation where some of the convictions will be in a state if they need urgent or, if you want, professional - or I don't know what you call it - medical assistance. Prison service has, as far as I know, only two prisons, one in Brno and one here in Pankrác. [[Hospital?]] I don't know what capacity beds there are, where these patients might be, but if they need medical attention, they'll have to be transported... [[A clue from the diaper.]] 39, 42. So if there is such a situation where these patients will have to be transferred to a civilian medical facility, the prison service, perhaps in cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic, is obliged to secure their security, because although this person may be connected to any device, he may be... They're simply required to secure his security. Of course, security will take the strength and resources of the person carrying out the activity. It's one of those places. We got it inside the facility, into the residence facilities. And it doesn't matter if it's a prison facility, or if it's a residential facility - hospitals, nursing homes, or retirement homes. How is it that we couldn't - not us, you, the government - that you couldn't protect the facility? Why didn't you do the testing? Why wasn't there enough testing, or why weren't measures taken to prevent this? We've been telling you since December that there are things that need to be dealt with. When I read the daily reports again, it's written that the most common form of transmission is in employment. I think that Mr Bláha over there, through Mr President, mentioned that it is not exactly that they are all responsible and so on. It probably won't be, because when I look at the profile of age cases again, I see that the most affected are in the age group 40 - 49, the second group 50 - 59, that's 16 percent, and 30 - 39, that's about 15 percent. That means they're people of working age who, I suppose, go to work. This means - and again: since January we have asked for testing to be carried out, let it be the possibility of self-testing, because if there were antigen tests, where they could only be performed in the presence of a trained medic, it is simply wrong. After all, there are enough antigen tests on the market today, and it is not just from saliva, it is also non-invasive to the nose, where self-testing can be done and it can be performed either by the children themselves if we talk about education or, of course, by employees in individual businesses. I am very glad that it is not only negative that the government is coming up with the fact that it will pay at least - and I think it is insufficient, but at least thanks for this - at least four antigen tests for individual companies and individual workers working in the production process. Because we have to solve the fundamental problem that you want to suffocate further. I'm from the disabled district of Trutnov. I drive through control basically four to five times, or maybe seven times, eight times a week, because I have nothing left. I see the coworkers there. Last week wasn't exactly good weather, temperatures minus 18, freezing. It's a really tough shift for these guys. I really admire what they did there. I think that this government should also find the funds and the service to pay those people enough. If they can find the money to pay health and social services workers, they should also find enough funds to secure rewards or, say, extras for people who are currently involved in these security measures within the framework of the Trutnovsky or Kralovehradecký and Karlovy Vary Region. And she may not be the last of the measures that are. But also to make sure that the money, as it did with the paramedics, goes all the way to those people who are actually standing there, so that they don't end up at Engineering or Regional Headquarters, like they did in the past, when the money was available, but the money didn't. And ask your colleagues here in the lobby last year if they've received any rewards and how much. And how many free hours they've served because when there's an emergency, it all goes to the so-called greens. So these are all the things that they are. Plus the measures we're making, plus the excesses. President Filip mentioned that there is - and that no measures you will take in the future, and I say for me you will, because I no longer intend to participate - you will do so, so there is a fundamental loss of trust. Yesterday I spoke to a young student who basically asks to go back to school. They're asking that they want to live, that they're young people, that they don't want to be locked up for a year, that they're just out of what they say. And then, of course, they'll see that VIP clients go to a football game or a restaurant. The morons are gonna take pictures of themselves and think they're so important. And what's the result? We're sanctioning some kind of sanction, I think there's CZK 50,000 in sanctions, there's a violation, and what's the penalty? 2,000 crowns? 3,000 crowns? Well, you've got to be kidding me, dear government! Here comes the House Press, there's - 1111, what's coming back from the Senate. I'm curious, you colleagues, in the right-hand side of the opposition, how do you stand up to this, because it's because we said or that the government said that not only waitresses and waiters who work in that restaurant should be sanctioned, and who will be instructed to open and serve, but who gives them the order, that is to say, the owner of the restaurant. This means the possibility of sanctioning natural entrepreneurs and legal entities. I wonder how you, colleagues, will stand up to this, because you will declare, or support the emergency situation. So the problems that are here are too many. After what I heard on Wednesday, and as the situation is medial, that is, as the Minister of Health says, Blatný, a catastrophic scenario, it was clear to me where it was going. It's moving into a plane: let's create a new legend and declare a new emergency. This means a new situation will arise and we will announce a new emergency situation from 1st and 28th, respectively, and all the political negotiations that you are conducting here are also contributing to this. I've been with some of them, not most of them, so I'll say you do, because if I were with them, I'd say it. Yes, we passed the pandemic law, which was still enough on Wednesday morning. Then the government realized that no, no, no, we couldn't limit freedom of movement, we couldn't say you wouldn't walk more than a mile from the house, maybe in the perimeter of the village, you wouldn't go anywhere, but we know there's no one to control it either, because - as our president says - the loss of public confidence in the measures you're taking. And so did the Rakušan, now I don't know his name, I think. Even the Rakušan understood it, and he just says: it's not like that anymore, we need to loosen it up a little bit. [[possible]] They understood it in Poland, they understood it elsewhere. We don't understand, because Mr. Hamáček says we have to endure it for a while or you have to endure it. Moving in the cadastral and people will understand. Well, dear government, people won't understand. Believe me, people won't understand. Of course, it's your decision, your decision, and the ones you closed the script with. That means, we passed the pandemic law, now we reject the emergency point, you adopt the resolution on how the new situation arose, because Pinocchio here is just doing it essential, three days it's pouring and pouring into us, and you've achieved that the entire public is insanely afraid of what the British mutation, the South African mutation, the Brazilian mutation, the Czech-Slovak mutation, and other mutations will come and come because it will need to keep the nation in fear. You're doing well. Be proud of yourself, your colleagues are revoking you, you have to stick with us for a while - a month, and as President Jurečka said, we believe. He was talking about vaccination. My colleague, you are a believer, so believe me, your faith will heal you. We also once believed that the government was capable and willing to deal with some things. Unfortunately, it's not. You won't understand for another month. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u21	Thank you and Mr Lubomír Španěl, Mr Jiří Bláha and Mr Antonín Staněk will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u22	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak to Minister Blatný here, while he is sitting here, and make a fluent reference to his colleague Hrnčíř's point of fact. You know how many times I sit on TV, like most people do, and I'm excited to expect a press conference after the government's meeting. I'll never know. I'll never know! Minister, you're holding a beaver of silence, and I'd like to ask you to break it now, because here your colleagues are telling you about this Isoprinosin and this Slovak drug that I can't remember now. You're not even able to go behind this counter and say, "It's wrong, it's stupid." These people expect us to help them. [[15.20 hours]] Likewise, Prime Minister Babiš went to Hungary, to Serbia to look for vaccines, to return and to silence on the way. We are only fully bound to what vaccines the European Union will give us, and as you can see, this does not work. But the situation is too serious. Some people may not want to inoculate themselves, but some would inoculate themselves with Chinese or Russian vaccines at their own risk. What right do we have to make for them at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Bláha. Mr Antonín Staněk will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u24	My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I thought something had changed in the Communist Party's thinking. But I'm sorry, I'm deeply disappointed. Because what was said here is just a mockery. We're all responsible for where we stand. It's up to us to convince the public. It doesn't work: Vláda, make it happen! It just doesn't work, and it won't work anywhere in the world. You can see that. Only responsibility and access to the state works. The fact that you have done nothing like the KSČM through Mr President for this, my dear Member, is your problem. It's up to all of us, and we should ask the public and those who follow to convince the people around us to make it work. And otherwise, who gets infected. I have 200 employees, 150 of which work in the field every day. We serve 15,000 customers every day, right, contact. The only one infected wasn't that way. Everything infected is from the home environment. This means that from when these people go after work, outside, they take off the drapes, take off the respirators, contact each other, families, acquaintances, and so on and so forth. Trust me. I'm in the field every day, every day from morning, from four o'clock to eight o'clock with these people. I see how it works in the village, in cities, in companies, among suppliers, among customers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u25	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will speak with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u26	Mr Blá, through Mr President, believe that you are the only Member who works in his region among the people. The rest of us are sitting here, or living in our own bubble. We're all total illiterates, we're idiots. Well, unfortunately, colleagues, there's nothing to be done. Each side has its own Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u27	Mr Milan Brázdil with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u28	I just wanted to respond to you, my colleague, through the President, why we do not have a virus flu-like disease. The effect of viruses and bacteria on the human organism works so that it is a competence, it is a competition. If you have angina, you get antibiotics, then it's recommended that all your sinuses be populated by the healthy ones that don't hurt you, and then they don't let go of the other ones. That's exactly how it works with the covid, who now seems to have captured us more, and therefore the flu virus isn't so aggressive. It's simple, there's nothing to it, of course the drape works and so on. I mean, don't look at it like it's conspiracy, and now we don't have it here. It's just purely competence, competing for you as biological material, and unfortunately, the covid wins now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u29	Thank you and with the opinion of the ODS Club, Mr Kupka will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, it is quite clear that the fight against COVID-19 has failed so far. The measures are clearly not working. The government is looking for a way out of this and wants to lean on a solution that is legally most problematic and very probably directly unconstitutional. We warn about this step, because if there is a serious problem with the steps that have been taken so far, it has been untrustworthy, unexplained and, at the same time, that it has proved repeatedly that it has legal problems. If we want to find a way out of this situation, it just can't be a legally dubious path. The fact that this is a legally dubious path shows the analysis of constitutional lawyers, we also show this in repeated arguments. At the same time, we say clearly in the resolution read by Mr Michálek that the government has a solution in the current situation, which is consistent with the Constitution and which must mean, if the government takes that path, a way out of a critical situation. The current extension of the emergency situation as proposed by the government really means extending the state that is problematic. It would also mean a very dangerous precedent - a revision of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which was published in the Collection of Laws. Historically, it turns out that if the House took this route, it meant questioning those steps from the start. So if we want to find a way out of the current crisis, from the current solution, it also means not aiming completely off the target. Complaining about public indiscipline is exactly off-target shooting and unfortunately also a demonstration of not taking our citizens as partners. Unfortunately, this is also one of the reasons for the crisis of existing measures and the fact that we are moving where we are moving. The pandemic law, which was mentioned, brought three important principles, and the current resolution of the critical situation should also stand on them. Explaining individual steps so that this is understandable. If the government is doing something, if something is being done by the Chamber of Deputies, it is up to people to understand it, to understand what risks this measure is preventing, how risky it is to do or the particular activity it is aiming at. At the same time, the adequacy of these measures and the public's awareness of this are very important. Then, of course, the issue that was discussed and undoubtedly the debate will be, and without which there will be no way out of the current situation. If the current figures show, and the spread of the more contagious mutations of the Chinese virus is undoubtedly dominant, this is evident according to all analyses, it is not public dissipation as a dominant element, as a dominant reason, it simply means taking other measures that will lead to a greater effect. But if they are to run, then the public - and examples from Britain and other states - must have a vision of what will be at the end of these measures. At the moment when after months of tightening, after months of really very unpopular measures do not come vision, there is no clear demonstration that society starts to release under clearly given circumstances, so it can only mean deeper problems and the emergence of other discontents, or even public unrest. In this sense, communication with people is extremely important. Therefore, it is important that these steps have a clear justification for being based on a legally correct solution and not on a problematic solution. Because once again, it's just more ligating the possibility of a real fight with the covid. And then, of course, disproved questionable theories, such as the fact that vaccinations aren't working. There are clear indications here. If 9,000 paramedics were infected after Christmas, and now there are 2,700 of them, although otherwise the disease in society is spreading much faster, it is clear that vaccination has its effect and that for the next option, for the vision I'm talking about, it is simply necessary a much bigger startup and effective vaccination as one of the key conditions. The thing that the anticovid team repeatedly calls for and puts forward proposals for solutions is massive testing. We welcome the government's commitment to this, too, because for this further easing, this will be really necessary if we really are to get into a situation where there are other states now. Finally, the thing that is also necessary for this way out is tracing as another necessary condition. [[15.30 hours]] In conclusion, a key summary of the civil democrats' position. It is clear that the current situation is getting worse. We are really facing what was at the beginning of last year, that is, fear, and a completely justified concern, about the crisis in the health system. A response must come to this, but the response must not be based on a legally problematic and unconstitutional solution, especially in a situation where there is a constitutional solution in the hands of the government. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u31	Thank you, too. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová will perform with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, at the point at which we are at and which precedes negotiations on the extension of the emergency situation, we are offering a solution to this supposedly impossible situation in terms of constitutionality, from the point of view of the rule of law, in which I dare say, we all want to live even after the worst wave of epidemic has passed. In short, the rule of law, the rule of law must certainly be maintained and is our primary concern. Therefore, we consider it the only possible procedure to continue dealing with the situation, that we will not vote at all on the extension of the emergency situation, according to many and according to the decision of one court already confirmed by the unconstitutional announcement of the emergency situation, but that an emergency situation will be declared by the government. And to do what can be used on the basis of the measures that the government wants to implement, use the pandemic law, which we approved in the final terms a few hours ago, and soon the President will also sign it, and then to do what cannot be done as a superstructure, it needs to be respected on the basis of another legal framework, because the pandemic law itself is not enough to declare an emergency. Even renowned experts on constitutional law agree that this is the thing that is legally the cleanest in the situation in which we find ourselves. We can very soon expect that the Constitutional Court, with which the current declared emergency situation is already under attack by several incentives, will be thrown down by this Constitutional Court. And then, according to the negotiations that we have been through today, the government doesn't have a plan to do exactly what it would do, but we can probably imagine that in a situation where we are going to be in the face of an epidemic, there would still be a need for measures to continue to be announced, so it would still be in a state of emergency. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary to prevent this possibility here, this eventuality, and to cause this enormous uncertainty, which is being offered, the solution is being offered. As opposition, a vast majority of the opposition's parties, we have found at today's meeting just the way to confirm, through a resolution that has already been discussed here, or it has already been read, so it will also give this certainty to the government. It does not mean that we believe that only an emergency in itself is enough, that only the pandemic law itself is enough. Of course, we also need to talk about the measures. I don't want to dissect the individual measures that are being proposed here today, but I think we all agree on key issues so that it doesn't happen in a few days or weeks, when the Constitutional Court decides, the confusion is even greater than it often has. I consider this to be a completely relevant requirement on our part and also a clean solution in terms of constitutionality. And that is also as important for us as solving the pandemic. If I had the opportunity to propose some really major measures, which, in my opinion, in the opinion of experts, the opinion of our AntiCovid team, will work, I will repeat many things that have been heard and heard from us in recent weeks. I think it is often important for these measures to come in quickly and on time. I will mention this on one particular case: in the case of testing in companies, the start of both general and state-supported and financial testing should have taken place much earlier. As for the respirators and their wearing in certain places, in public, we repeatedly call on the government to distribute them to certain groups, especially those at risk and seniors, free of charge. Similar matters and such things that I would have repeated from the past and which you have heard from us more than once. We're constantly trying to get the government to put their heads, their heels, their senses, their pulls, it wasn't always half-assed, it wasn't semi-finished. I'm sure that's what this is all about right now, and that's definitely crucial right now, too. We can't resign to anything. We must try to achieve better numbers in the field of testing. When the Austrian model, the Austrian approach, was mentioned here, we must not just take the A out of it that the flat closures are not working, but we must also say the B, and that the state is testing massively, but really massively. He went this way, i.e. even in per capita conversion, or if we were to make a comparison, it's an incomparably higher number of tests per week than we do, whatever their form and form. It's also a completely different trust of people in those measures. And I want to stop at this one in particular. I think that we are at the moment when we realize that the 19 999 victims to date that will certainly be added to them, so we are very, very serious at the moment when the situation has actually deteriorated rapidly. If we'd kept a minute of silence for anyone who's already been in contact with the covid on it, whatever you call it, we'd be silent for almost 14 days incessantly without a few hours. This is, of course, one of the possible examples of showing how many names it's already been. It's a county town in the Czech Republic that would issue the number of our victims for the year we live here with the epidemic. Of course, the strain that everyone here is aware of, of course, needs to have a fundamental trust in people that we are able to avoid adding more and more sacrifices and handling the situation with these measures. It is also related to who is telling the public the measures, whatever form they may take. I have been to both meetings that have taken place in the last hours and days, and I have told the Prime Minister directly on them, and even though he is not here right now, I want to say it again publicly. [[in the hall is only Minister Benešová and Minister Dostálová]] I am convinced that in a given situation, it simply cannot be someone who has completely lost confidence. Today it is a situation or a state of a large part of the political spectrum, it is not even about the government anymore. But in short, the clear data of the polls suggests that only a unit of percent of people in the Czech Republic believe that the Prime Minister is able to lead us through this crisis. That is why I have clearly asked them, and I think that this request is very appropriate, and I am doing it again in order to ignore it, and that further action by the public, the measures and the need for them to be respected, is simply communicated by someone else who will have that trust. I'm not gonna point a finger at anybody, I don't think it's appropriate, but I think this would be one of those ways to at least try to get that trust back, if not for the vast majority of people and the 100% part of society, so at least such a significant part of society, so that it makes a great deal of sense and brings great improvement. [[15.40 hours]] I also think that when more and more voices appear, that there is a way, or there would be a way through some new government, a government that would be against this crisis, an anti-covide government of experts or some understanding, to lead us out of the crisis, even if we all know how naive this journey is, in essence, now, until perhaps idealistic, so let us not completely resign from this solution, and let us remember that we also bear additional responsibility if we do not try to agree, within the entire political spectrum, with the President of the Republic that we will be looking for this solution. I'm not calling for distrust from the government, I'm calling for a consensus that would lead to something like this. And you might think I'm really very naive, but I'm trying to look at it the way it might help. And I know that even with our constituents, I would be going through something very difficult, and that's what I'm saying, knowing that it's a rather bold thought for the moment, but an idea that I don't think should be left unspoken. At the end of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, and especially dear fellow citizens, let me ask you one thing. There will be a lot of speculation and talk about what else should have been done, how specifically it should have been this or that measure, where it can and must not go, what should be closed and what should be opened and the like. Let us all try to look at the following weeks so that we do not expect what will happen for us, but what we can do to cope with the situation, how we can do with each and every one of our own work, how we can keep what is necessary, help to get out of this situation and get how each and every one of us can influence the numbers that we see every day in the statistics, by actually meeting only those with whom we really need, where it is really necessary, and by limiting all other contacts, by being, if our employment allows us, working really only from home, by not doing any risky activity that we already know in the course of the spread of the epidemic in that time and fatigue is causing a bit of exhaustion even for anyone who would like to carry out the measures, we will consistently observe the hygiene of our hands and similar matters that we have all heard a lot about during that time, but perhaps not everyone is able to keep up. In this case, let's say that it's a lot for us, for each of us, how we can do it, and add our drop to the machine's gearing and erase it with our responsibilities, our approach, whatever we call it. I think it's right again, and when we go through the worst, we're gonna look for what was supposed to be different and how it was supposed to be different. We're trying to do that now, trying to appeal to the acceleration of the vaccination when the vaccines are already there. We are trying to appeal to better compensation for all those suffering from economic impacts. We are simply trying in all the individualities to help and look for the opponent who is constructive, but much more fundamental right now, I see that we all simply take responsibility in our own hands and see this as an opportunity to contribute to improving the overall situation and gradually bringing this country out of the worst crisis that it has faced and ever faced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u33	Thank you. According to my notes, it's from the priority rights for the moment. I'll read an apology. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip apologizes for today's meeting since 15.15. And I will ask Mr Čižinský, who is enrolled in the debate, then Mr Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u34	Thank you. I just had a question for Minister Blatný because he was here, and the Minister is not here. Is Minister Blatný here? Excellent. [[The minister just walked into the hall.]] I wanted to ask you, Minister, about non-state medical facilities because yesterday I received a call from a doctor from Kladno from the ARO and asked if there were any meetings with non-state medical devices that are equipped for similar care to covido care - they have oxygen, they have everything - so if the negotiations with them took place and if the government is not going to - and I would have talked to them to get ready - to order them to take care of covido patients. That's the information I'd like to get. And then -- there's really a limitation for people on the march, there's a cadastral fence, which would be a disaster, because some people couldn't even get out of the house, so I would really intercede when it's really supposed to be the territory of the community, so it's going to be plus some tolerance, like five, ten kilometers, because we're going to put a lot of people in an unsolvable situation where they really can't even go into the woods, which is wrong. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u35	Thank you. The Minister has heard your call, and with priority rights, he is claiming the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u36	Just for a little while. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond. Yes, NSAs are being dealt with. It is one of the other possible capacities, so I completely agree with you, this is one of the ways to further increase capacity. I would also briefly comment on what was mentioned here about the capacities of Czech hospitals and the questioning of statistical data. They are indisputable when we know that about 2,000 people over the age of 65 are currently newly diagnosed every day from long-term statistics that are easily traceable over the past many months, about 30 percent of these people end up in hospitals. This hits exactly like a watch, so this results in the 700 revenue next week and subsequently according to possible further developments as well as subsequent changes. And the fact that numbers have increased by a few hundred in the Czech ICUs is not questionable either, so I'm just saying this so that there is no false hope that what I said here wasn't true. And then there was one more question, and I forgot it now, so I guess it wasn't important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u37	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u38	Thank you for the answer. And I would really like to appeal for a regulation to take place as soon as possible to those non-state health care establishments, because in my view, the situation is really unbearable that public hospitals delay the necessary operations, and there are a lot of facilities that carry out long-term, long-term, but not urgent. I think we really owe our paramedics, but we owe it to all patients to pay the same meter for everyone in this crisis situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u39	Thank you. Mr Luzar for debate. Mr Martínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u40	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to speak to Minister Blatný in this contribution. First of all, I want to thank him for trying, as one of the few ministers, to respond to all the questions that Members send him through various electronic media. Thank you for giving me the answer, even if the answer was contradictory. [[15.50 hours]] My question was asthmatic, asthmatic and allergic. He answered the allergic part correctly, but he forgot about the asthma. And I have citizens' questions about how asthmatics are supposed to inhale their drapes when they have trouble breathing even normal walks. It is a big problem for all who are trying to breathe in this, and in the exceptions, when I asked the Minister to take this into account, unfortunately, it did not appear. I repeat my appeal, Minister, to think about asthmatics and, in general, all people who have difficulty breathing, to be exempt. Because the government regulations that you're preparing as if she didn't know the exceptions, unless they're physiological exceptions to the type of small growth, etc., so you forget that there are people who just need them. I understand that they could be abused, but yet a group of people have a problem, and even more panic among them is a big problem. The second thing I'd like to hear from you to pursue it, and it would be very good if it were heard from your mouth in the public space and not from various other experts, because the Minister of Health constantly represents authority to me: how it is with antibodies. As it is with people who have experienced covid, it is officially over a million citizens of the Czech Republic. Expert estimates are only twofold, or two million citizens of the Czech Republic, if not three million who had covid in some form, for example I belong to them, and my antibodies are fourfold higher than normal, as I had tested on Monday. How are we doing? People who have had covid have antibodies to covid in the body, or to vaccinate, yes - no? Firms that develop vaccination say: Of course, there is no problem. But in turn, there are opinions from experts who say: There is no need to rush, if you have antibodies, vaccination is quite unnecessary. If we take the sober estimates that there are 2 million people in the Czech Republic who had covid in some form, then there are 2 million people out of 10 million who don't have to be actively vaccinated, and we save vaccines for those who need it. So, Minister, it would be a good thing if you were to devote yourself to this matter and also tell the public how it is with this, and if these people are to have themselves voluntarily measured antibodies so that they can have some basis on which they can somehow function in society when you think about it, and unfortunately Europe also, that it would be proven somehow that people are being vaccinated so that they can travel. This needs to be a problem in my region right now, when Poland is considering closing the borders, and the citizens who want to go to Poland will have to have some kind of vaccination certificate, which I do not think is right, to divide Europe by who is or is not vaccinated, but it is their decision. For us, however, it should be clear how to deal with people who are more and more who have the antibodies against the covid, they fear, for example, vaccination to be explained and clearly said: You do not have to hurry or how to proceed. Another thing I wanted to mention from specific comments is the experience, a fresh experience from today, when a person from Prague came to visit parents in a small district town and ordered two months in advance for antigen testing in that district town so that she could be sure when she came from the big city, where the covid is on a rampage, so that she could be tested and able to go to her parents because she doesn't want to endanger them as an orderly citizen, quite safely. The first contact was like, "ježiš, you're underordered, 'cause we're running PCR tests today, and we're not doing antigenic. I laughed and said, "It's been 15 minutes, antigen test is not a problem. No, no, no, our system isn't working, we're not able to run the antigen test at the county hospital today, we're doing a PCR today. So the logical question is, who's gonna do this to me? The nearest county city of size where they could do it is for the self-paying Ostrava, or quite far away. And the second thing was, make an appointment. Yeah, but in 14 days. So a decent citizen who would like to comply with these regulations and orders has quite a problem, and it would also be worth focusing on those testing systems and ordering systems, whether they really fulfil the purpose they have, because such experiences when people acquire in these devices, of course they are against any other approach, and only these people will be upset. Again, the gratifying information is that vaccination works, Minister. You're right, because I looked into it in nursing homes and senior homes, when the first wave of vaccinations significantly reduced the disease. Thank you for going in the first wave, but it is necessary to go further and start vaccinating all those who want to undergo this vaccination. But my question has something to do with that. Medical personnel are largely vaccinated. The incubation period has passed after the vaccination, when the vaccine should start to work. What are the measures against those vaccinated? Does that mean he doesn't have to wear those suits anymore? Are they good enough with a mask because they're already inoculated? How far does a larger charge of the infection affect them? How should they approach? Shouldn't this be revised here, too, since they're being vaccinated? How far does this vaccination protect them? Because, of course, it will also release potential health-care capacities. If this information is not known and you do not have it, this information should also be provided, because many people are asking me that, and even doctors are asking me that, health care professionals. I'm being vaccinated, yes, the time has passed, I'm being protected. Why do I have to wear a shield and other things when I'm vaccinated? They don't get answers. As for my last question: When you prepare hard lockdown in cooperation with the Home Secretary, but such that you really ban travelling from county to county, the first thing that appeared when I looked at it is information or rather a question, yes, when you do it, what will be the relaxation? 'Cause wherever it closed down, when it got loose after that time, they had an increase in a week, and it was pretty pronounced, because people who are pushed like that suddenly burst out, and if it doesn't start to work out, the disease will break out again. And that's why the waves are, that's why the peaks are. That sometimes not so close, but rather appeal and let it go, is against the top points that then appear in the statistics. Inoculation as a problem, vaccination as a certain metaphor for the progress of the covid and targeted condition, the light at the end of the tunnel, perhaps everyone perceives. The second question is how is the education going? Sometimes information from the statistics on citizens' questions, as they look at vaccinations, comes out to the public, and quite a lot of them reject it. Maybe out of ignorance, maybe out of fear, but it's the government's fault, it's the Ministry of Health's fault that he doesn't do education in vaccination so people don't get too scared of vaccinations. It's a natural fear when you hear that AstraZeneca over 60 years of age and that someone died of it and so on. Just education should be here and it should occur, which also concerns, for example, teachers' vaccinations. I'm worried that teachers' vaccinations won't end in a similar fiasco. And if you are preparing - and the Minister of the Interior is not here, Minister of Education: am I accustomed to the fact that he is not here - you are preparing the closure of schools, kindergartens and daycare facilities, so how are you prepared to replace those women who will have to stay at home with these young children? It's not a problem in Prague, but if I take the county town again, it's quite a big problem when someone has to go to work for six o'clock in the morning as a nurse and they have to drive across the city, which is a transport hour, possibly to a single kindergarten. This is where the smaller towns, smaller towns, were forgotten, and there is an example of large cities where it is probably not such a big problem to provide a functional kindergarten. But it's a problem in small county towns. Therefore, you should also consider this before you even start closing these nursery and kindergartens in order to take into account this problem, which I am sure will be. Again, I'm sure it will. And believe me, when I proposed a change in the law, you said, "No, no, no, everything is chosen." - It wasn't. [[16.00 hours]] It's just a problem you can't leave behind because these people expect you to be the authorities, the Minister of Health, clear words. If this does not sound, the basis for losing confidence as politicians, like those who should be making decisions, is obvious. And when you look at the latest confidence polls, as an opposition, I should be delighted, the government is losing very, very much trust. If you don't start doing something about it - this is not about voting here and wanting to call off the government and causing a constitutional crisis. No, the point is that citizens are losing faith in government, and that's for thought. This is not a political struggle right now, but it is about gaining the trust of citizens to at least view this existing government as a government that knows what it is doing. I would love for that to happen. Once again, Minister, I call on you to try to do a day-to-day at least a quarter of an hour before the main broadcast time in the public media, as I have called you for six months to start explaining to people what was going on that day and what is expected, how it will work, what is being prepared, because what citizens learn from press conferences, if they happen to see them at different times, they cannot be happy at all because journalists, of course, are asking for tabloid information, and the basic information for citizens escapes them. This right here, if there's a debt, I'm sure there's a debt. At the same time, I call on the crisis crew to expand on the director of public media so that the director of Czech Television, the director of Czech Radio and the Czech Press Office can go there regularly, so that they have the information that the crisis crew has, and on this basis they can also perceive the broadcast of these public media, which is often causing terror among citizens just because it is currently current, interesting, I do not know what to call it - a tabloid such broadcast. I'd like her to come back in the context of the crisis management system with responsibility, responsibility for those who control, too, having to have results. And I wouldn't worry about it, Minister, if you have a team that fails to replace the team and start a new team, because if you don't switch teams, the team can switch coaches, and I wouldn't want that, because another health minister, that's something that this Republic should probably pass on time. Therefore, try also to let other people in among your advisors and try to expand the team or find a suitable way for this republic. The one we're after at the moment shows that this is not a good way and that it does not lead to the desired goal. I wish all of us to successfully end this journey with as little sacrifice as possible, but also with as little fear as possible. And above all, health for everyone - that's what I wish. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u41	I thank you and the next will be Mr Tomáš Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u42	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister of Health Blatný, I have sent you a written interview on the mandatory breathing protection devices. I have not yet received an answer, which is why I want to ask you now about your position, because it can affect my vote on this and other points. On 22 February 2020, the Government issued emergency measures regarding the wearing of respirators and other respiratory protective devices. The FFP2 standard requires protection of at least 94 per cent for paraffin oil particles, while the CN95 requires 95 per cent for NHCL only. The regulation thus erroneously mentions 95 per cent, which would exclude some FFP2 respirators, which are mostly more effective than the Chinese-marked CN95. If we want to reduce the spread of coronavirus, it is appropriate to increase the protection effectiveness before existing cloth drapes have a particle filtration efficiency of 0.6 micrometer around 20 percent. I have here the results of the tests on nose protective devices and the mouth of the dTest magazine and other results of Aaron Günsberger's respirator tests. The dTest test indicates that the particle capture efficiency of 0.6 micrometer tested for FFP2 respirators is about 98 per cent, KN95 from 100 to 90 per cent. Five mouthpieces tested immediately showed efficacy in dTest between 97 and 94 per cent required by the standard FFP2, eleven mouthpieces had efficiency between 93 and 80 per cent required by the standard FFP1 and six mouthpieces tested had efficiency below 80 per cent. The effectiveness of the nanomaterials products ranged from 100 to 69 percent, only Vietnam products had lower efficiency, and even declared themselves misleadingly as products from nanomaterials even without their use. One nanorespirator had efficiency of 100 percent, i.e. levels of FFP3, six nanorespirators had efficiency of 99 to 95 percent of the FFP2 level. One had 92 percent of the FFP1 level and two had efficiency below 80 percent. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] The level of protection of cloth drapes was around 20 percent, when washed drapes were mostly more effective than new unwashed cloth drapes. dTest also tried using a combination of cloth drape with pocket for filter. Two tested filters, including meltblown, reached 82 per cent equivalent to FFP1 in the efficacy test. They even had a 100 per cent effect in a 3 micrometers drip-capture test. When I look at Aaron Günsberger's results, of the 23 respirators tested, five respirators reached at least 99.5 percent, these respirators were identified by standards FFP2 or FFP3; 6 respirators reached a capture level of more than 94 percent, i.e. FFP2 levels, 7 respirators reached a capture level of at least 80 percent - FFP1, the other 5 had lower efficiency. These were mainly products from China, possibly marked with CN95. The obligation to wear two medical facial masks is justified by a mistaken link to the CDC.gov website. , however, where they explicitly warn against layering these medical facial masks, says the manufacturer of drapes PARTA Medica. Layer recommended only for the combination of elastic cotton drapes with a medical facial mask, adds. It follows to me that the use of nanofilters and other efficient filters in combination with the insertion into the cotton or other textile drapes pocket would be appropriate. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister Blatný, why the value of 95 per cent is used in the law, which is a percentage higher than the European standard FFP2 requires, and is hardly comparable to the standard KN95. Secondly, why is KN95 mentioned in the official measure of the Ministry of Health, which should not be sold in the Czech Republic at all? Would it not be more appropriate to distinguish in the regulation the required effectiveness according to European standards? For example, for medical devices to demand efficiency of at least 94 per cent, i.e. the equivalent of FFP2 and for public transport, shops and other places to demand efficiency of at least 80 per cent, i.e. the equivalent of FFP1? [[Noise doesn't stop.]] On the web of academics and students of the Technical University of Liberec rouskystulkou.org protocols are available from the Labour Safety Research Institute and the Institute for Testing and Certification, which demonstrate a minimum Meltblow filter capture of 81 percent. This is also confirmed by the dTest test when inserting the filter into a washed textile drape, which is, among other things, more than the subroutine I am wearing, which even indicates 100 per cent protection for the drips. Since many companies use nanofilters or Meltblow filters for their employees, can you assure them that this is a protection that complies with the existing measure? Will free high-level breathing protection devices be provided for low-income citizens in order to comply with the measures? And the last thing, up to date, about the fact that even here in the House, it is said that constitutional officials are to have an exception. I think it's a hoax that you could disprove because I don't think I'm some kind of superhuman, and I don't know why I should have any exception to other people. But if I understand the regulation correctly, it's the same as for an employee, only if a person is two meters away from another person. So I would just like to put it right, not to spread the hoax, which is unfortunately being used by some elected constitutional officials here, and they lie to people about the fact that there is such an exception for constitutional officials. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Výborný. He prefers the minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly. The standard we're referring to, I'm gonna have her checked out, but it's not an explicit type of respirator, it's a standard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u45	I'm gonna interrupt you, Minister, and I'm gonna ask for some peace in the hall. A larger part of the Members have already arrived because the vote is coming, but the noise has thus increased. I'm gonna ask you to be patient. Please allow the Minister's performance to rest!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u46	Thank you. Only those respirators that are and have written over 94, meet this condition, that's okay. And then I just confirm that constitutional officials will not be mentioned in the measure, that they should have an exception to other employees from wearing or not wearing masks. So just to be clear, it's probably gonna solve some of the problems we've had here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u47	Thank you. And the debate is attended by Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members, Government, it would be strange if I had not spoken at all as rapporteur on this point. Let me just briefly recall the reason for including this point, which arose from the agreement of five opposition parties, and actually, if I am not mistaken, the KSČM parliamentary club also joined, and this is precisely the attempt to create a clear space for the government here, so that the situation - which is not really simple, and we do not question it, and if you have listened well to most of my previous speakers, they have repeated it again and again - the situation that we have been in is not good. There is a need for a government - because we Members really cannot do this here, but concrete steps, concrete measures must be taken by the government or the Ministry of Health, and we must create a legislative framework for this. It is given here and we believe that we should not proceed in the way that the government has come with, namely to try to revise a resolution here, which, according to legal opinion, cannot be revocated. Indeed, if we had here - as it is so far in the next third point - if we were to vote on the extension of the emergency situation, we would get there if we didn't go beyond the edge, so at least on the edge of the legal order of the Czech Republic. It would take two things. We would have to revise a resolution, which was properly approved by the House, and it is not a normal resolution, but it is an exciting resolution which stated that the current emergency situation ended either by the entry into force of the today approved pandemic law, which means the moment when it comes out in the Collection of Laws or at the latest on 27 February, i.e. at midnight from Saturday to Sunday. It is not possible to revise this resolution published in the Collection of Laws by the House resolution. I think who remembers this, or you who are familiar with the matter, can find out that once the House tried something similar in the context of the amendment to the Commercial Code, and the Constitutional Court subsequently annulled this. So we really shouldn't go on this very thin ice and go in this way, by the way, completely unnecessary, because there's - or at least I don't see it - no reason. The second is that the current emergency situation, the so-called hetman, was largely dubious from the outset in the sense that it was not certain whether or not the emergency situation could be declared in this way. We know that this 14-day emergency has already been attacked here, as in the Constitutional Court, there are some statements from the general courts, and it would be good not to continue in this unclear and legally dubious state. Please, Prime Minister, the government, it's also a defense of yourself. You may face - or are already facing - actions that relate precisely to the fact that the current emergency situation has been declared in violation of crisis legislation. If the House, at your request today, agrees to continue, this will not end in our view, but will continue. What's stopping us from going the easy way? This means that the current emergency situation will simply come to an end, and it will be followed if the government finds it reasonable, and I say that I really see all the reasons for this, I see all the reasons for this, from the data that are from the overload of the health system and so on, as was said here also from the mouth of Minister Blatný, and from the implied measures, from the mouth of Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, but then it is very easy to declare the new emergency situation, which was proposed here by Jakub Michálek, in agreement with other opposition parties, and we are actually telling you that we consider this to be the right procedure. At the same time, we have clearly indicated that we will not be such a declared emergency, which will be clearly and intelligibly justified and which will be based on a new situation that was not here, that is, from the new mutations of Coronavirus COVID-19 that appeared here, and 14 days ago the situation was not like this, from the new data of a completely new situation of the entire health system, so the opposition will not in any way contradict this government procedure. The only thing we want you to do is to make this new emergency state clear, understandable and properly justified, that it includes the measures that the government will take under this new emergency situation, if it declares it, and what it promises from these measures. At the same time, I would consider it very fair and serious if the government as the House kept us informed not only about the situation, but also about whether these measures were taken by the government and are really effective. By the way, the AntiCovid team has completed negotiations with leading experts and scientists who are involved in modelling the current situation, and has repeatedly said that every hour, really not a day, but every hour of delay of these measures is a big problem. I don't think there's anything to wait for. I am sorry that the government has been sitting on the last two nights and nights and has not de facto reached any conclusions, because let's be very frank about it, the government could have already, or even Wednesday night, canceled the current emergency situation, because it has the authority, in terms of Article 6 of the State Security Act, to announce a new one, with the measures that are needed. Those measures could have run, and we didn't have to delay waiting eight or ten days for the effects of any measures to come, because it's clear to all that when the government approaches those measures on Monday or Sunday, of course, as a wave of magic, the situation will not improve. [[16.20 hours]] I therefore very much ask the Government and the House, on the one hand, to support a resolution which states that the Government has this possibility, if it deems it appropriate, to declare a new emergency state that this solution and this path, this procedure is the only possible, the only right one. And then the third point with which the government came to withdraw it, because at that point it is unreasonable to discuss this point, because it is clearly suggested what the House, in quotes, gives the puvoir to the government, what is the right procedure, so that we respect the legal order of the Czech Republic even in this difficult situation. In fact, the public doesn't care if it's under the pandemic law or the crisis law or whatever law it is. It is important that emergency conditions, or legal constraints, in which we move and the government moves, bring what we all want, and that is an improvement. That's what's needed, that's what's crucial, that's what's important. And if we are not discussing paragraph 3, then the government is also given the opportunity to sit down today and those measures that need to be implemented in a clear, understandable manner and then to communicate towards the public. I think that the information aspect of the whole thing, clear, understandable communication, will be the way to keep the last remains of elementary public confidence, not to the government, but to the measures themselves, and to the fact that we can work our way out of this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have here a factual point - Mr Jiří Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u50	Colleagues, I won't keep you long. It's about one thing. I'd like to ask you that, really, believe it, it doesn't matter if we put it that way or this way. Yes, let's do what we agree on, but let's all be helpful in being responsible. This means that it is up to each of you Members to address as many as possible those who can follow what we declare, because believe that without accepting it at the end, people will accept it in some way, that they will be willing to submit to it, that it will not just be on the eye, we are able to achieve the goal. The point is that restaurants and shops are closed when we're acting irresponsible in our free time. The point is, we have schoolchildren at home, they're not at school, when everyone's meeting in the afternoon, partying, having fun without protection, etc. It's all useless. [[Laughter.]] Yes, even without protection. Yes. [[Fun.]] So believe that by our own example and active approach we are able - even without those protections - to give it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have a point of fact here - Mr Benešík. There was still a chance that he leaned against the table badly, but the MP wishes to speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u52	I'm so sorry, I've really been stalling, Mr. Chairman, but technically. It really doesn't matter, as the previous speaker said, how the state goes. We just keep saying that extending the situation by the Chamber of Deputies is not within the Constitution. It's unconstitutional, and the only way to have this emergency situation here is to declare it again, or to declare a new emergency state to the government. The government does not need the Chamber of Deputies to declare a new emergency, it is not our competence. We just can't do anything else, the government can do it for 30 days without whether Benešík likes it or doesn't like it, but they have to justify it. That's all. So it doesn't matter, and we're still trying to explain here that it doesn't matter if it extends something unconstitutional, and we're saying that it's unconstitutional, or the government will take full responsibility and declare a new emergency on its own responsibility. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u53	I thank you and ask you one last time if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. I don't see anyone in the hall, I'm ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? The rapporteur? [[No.]] Mr. Minister for the Government? It's not. We will proceed to a detailed debate. I ask who is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. Chairman of the Pirate Party Club Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u54	Thank you for the floor. I am referring to the motion for a resolution, which I tabled in the general debate and forwarded in writing to both the rapporteur and the club presidents on the benches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u55	Yes, thank you. I ask if anyone else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask again if there is interest in final words. It is not, and we will therefore vote. I may ask the rapporteur to read the resolution once more, so that we know exactly what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One motion for a resolution was made in this point, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that, following the end of the emergency situation on 27 February 2021, following the spread of new mutations in coronavirus and the decreasing capacity of the health system in the Government's competence to declare a new emergency in order to take measures against the spread of an epidemic beyond the framework of the pandemic law'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-26-ps2017-088-01-002-002.u57	There. I've summoned colleagues from the lobby. I think we're represented in sufficient numbers. Someone's knocking again. You're not doing well. I hope this works. [[Fun.]] I checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you to rejoin. The number of entries seems to be stable. The rapporteur has read to us the motion for a resolution on which I am now opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the resolution proposed? Who's against it? In the vote number 9, 156 Members are enrolled, for 132, against 21. The motion was accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the rapporteur and end this point. I'm opening another point.
