ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-009-007.u1	7. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for monitoring the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of monitoring of persons and goods and the cancellation of electronic communications traffic and the manner in which it is set up or elected According to Article 98 of Law No. 273/2008 Coll., on the Police of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies sets up a monitoring body to control the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of tracking and repealing electronic communications, consisting of Members designated by the Chamber of Deputies. Even here, the number of members is not determined by law and the number of members needs to be established. Here too, there is a need for proposals to be made in a detailed debate. During the 8th parliamentary term, the number was set at 10 Members and was determined on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. Pursuant to Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this supervisory body be appointed as a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies. Furthermore, we should decide in accordance with Article 115 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, whether we establish this committee in accordance with the principle of proportional representation, or whether it will be established on the basis of parity, or whether the Members will be elected in a majority manner. Am I initiating a general debate and asking who is applying for it? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the general debate. We will now proceed to the debate in detail. I wonder who's applying? And it is President Jákob again. You have your word. Please make proposals in a detailed debate. [[The MP warns that his last name is Jakob.]] Jakob, I'll remember that, Mr. Ambassador, for next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-009-007.u2	On the basis of the same agreement, I propose that this commission be set up in a proportionate manner and once again have a number of members 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-009-007.u3	I thank you, Mr Jakob, and I ask if anyone will make a counterclaim against this proposal? I can't see. In that case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. The motion for a resolution is that "The Chamber of Deputies establishes a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for monitoring the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic, the use of tracking persons and things and the cancellation of electronic communications operations, consisting of 9 Members, and provides that the Commission is set up according to the principle of proportional representation'. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution as I have read it? Press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 30, 182 Members and Members registered, for proposal 154, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening a new point, and that's
