ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u1	467. Proposal for the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies for an environmental disaster on the Bečva river / House document 7332/ A group of 40 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry. At the same time, this group prepared a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of House document 7332. I ask you to take the floor for a group of plaintiffs appointed by a representative. Like this: I even have a registered Stanislav Blaha for the ODS club here, but we have a written application for the debate, but either way, I have one for the ODS Stanislav Blaha or I have one for the TOP 09 and one for the KDU-ČSL MEP Marian Jurečka. So what's the deal? The first, then, is President Marian Jurečka, and the second, Mr Blaha will be prepared for the ODS club - do I understand? In the debate? Okay, so there's one of the plaintiffs. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, thank you for including this item in today's meeting, and I think it is really appropriate for us to address the setting up of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies, as our Rules of Procedure allow us to do, as the Constitution of the Czech Republic allows. There are a number of reasons why we, as a group of 40 Members, think that such a step must be taken. We're in a situation where we're about to have a sad anniversary. Six months have passed since September 20, and we are in a situation where the biggest environmental accident on our river has really occurred in the modern history of the Czech Republic. We cannot compare any other cases with this accident not only from the point of view of the number of dead fish, but mainly from the length of the affected river Bečva, whether in the territory of the Zlín Region or then mainly in the territory of the Olomouc Region. We are in a situation where at the beginning of the whole story we were assured that the investigation will be very quick, the culprits will also be found very quickly, they will be punished unprecedentedly and there will also be maximum activity as regards the restoration of the affected part of the Bečva river and the entire ecosystem. However, in the meantime, a lot of water has passed in Bečva and we are in a situation where it was first declared that on 20 December an expert expert opinion will be published, based on the further procedure of the investigation of the Police of the Czech Republic, and unfortunately, this deadline has been postponed, it has been postponed to the end of February, and today we are in a third of March and we still do not know when this key expert opinion will be processed. But there are many questions and still unclear issues not only about the expert opinion. I believe that the expert is trying to do the best possible, but he is probably in a very difficult situation, because we as Members, as well as many people who deal with this issue, are getting a really large number of incentives, incentives from people who live and are active in the region. They are active to such an extent that they were, for example, the first ones to find out that such an accident occurred. They were representatives of fishermen, the fishing association Hustopečí nad Bečvou. These people alarmed the authorities, whether it was the Czech Environmental Inspection, the integrated rescue system, the representatives of the river basin and so on. Today, as Members, we are in a situation that we are receiving a large number of different information about the fact that the approach of those authorities in the first hours and days after the reported accident was very special, uncoordinated, did not have the appropriate and adequate move to the goal so that the culprit was able to find out how to close the whole matter quickly. We receive suggestions concerning the approach and work of the Czech Environmental Inspection, an integrated rescue system, cooperation with representatives of authorities operating in the village with extended scope, after cooperation with representatives of companies in the Moravia basin. There's a lot of these things and the different theories that are around it today in public space. I believe that we have reached a stage where it is necessary, in addition to the investigations that are being conducted here by the standard route that the Police of the Czech Republic is in charge of in cooperation with the concerned other entities, such as the Czech Environmental Inspection, the Waters of Moravia and others, to create here the Chamber of Investigation Commission, because the extent of the things we are talking about here has an impact not only on how we can describe, identify the culprit, the cause of the accident as it has occurred, punish him, take steps to remedy, fish the Bečva River, but also to say that we are able to make such changes in competences, synergies, including changes in legislation, that we will eliminate the risk of such an accident ever occurring in the future. And I think it's supposed to be the point of this committee of inquiry that we're looking for. I must say that for me personally it is a topic that is really very close and hearty, because the generations of my ancestors who lived in Rokytnice u Přerova, and we live there as a family today, we are very closely connected with the Bečva River because it is a river that flows through our cadaster, a river that affects the water level in our village, most of our houses that were built in the previous and previous centuries, have the foundations of gravel that was mined in the Bečva River. It's a river where we go for walks, where we go fishing, where we go swimming. We've really had a strong relationship with this river for generations. I believe that the way our society treats people, our loved ones, each other, but the way we treat the environment is a reflection of our maturity, our culture and our values that we live in real life. And when we look at the rivers and their significance in all of human history, the meaning is huge and we cannot ignore it. Rivers don't deserve access like this to be swept under the table. The rivers were of great importance in terms of livelihood of the population, transport, use of energy. If the Minister of Culture were here, I would also remind - and I will remind you, even though he is not here - that he is also a great source of inspiration in the field of culture. When they say My country, Vltava, everyone immediately remembers, and who is culturally educated, when they hear the notes of the Vltava, it gives him the creeps. And here we have the story of a river that is not Vltavou, but it is Bečva, and we treat it very strangely. So I would like to be able to really set the rules for how we can untangle this story, we can do Bečva, which is often written about in the cultural plains - for example Vlasta Redl, who wrote a song about Bečva, and there says: Bečva flows down the trough and it goes downhill, and when summer comes, Valmez people throw souls and bodies from tractors into it. I would like it to remain only with this lyrical description, but so that no more souls are thrown there, no bodies, and certainly no other contaminants that cause such accidents. I would therefore like to move towards a concrete proposal from this committee of inquiry. We were in this when we gave the 40 signatures of the Members under the Rules of Procedure of the House's leadership, so we also gave a specific motion for a resolution. I'll allow myself to revive him here if you haven't read it, and we've done a little bit of editing and spreading it at one point. In fact, I want to declare the meaning of this committee of inquiry, where it should be taken, what its activities should be, what the scope of this committee's activities should be. [[15.10 hours]] Therefore, we dare to propose the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry and to impose a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on this ecological disaster on the Bečva River: A. [[I.]] [[II.]] In order to gather all the evidence for the environmental disaster on the Bečva River of 20 September 2020 and subsequent accidents which then occurred last year. B. Examine the documents obtained and draw any criminal liability for detected errors. C. To assess, on the basis of the supporting documents obtained, the accuracy of the procedure of the authorities concerned of the State and of other persons, their possible procedural errors or laxity. D. Evaluate compliance with legal obligations and measures of state authorities to protect surface waters with regard to prevention and management of accidents. E. To oversee the implementation of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1391 of the 72nd meeting of 3 December 2020, which imposes corresponding tasks on the Government and the Minister of the Environment. III. It obliges the government of the Czech Republic and the state authorities concerned to provide full cooperation with the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies in its operation and we set a deadline - it is subject to a possible discussion whether four or, for example, six months after the date of the commission of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies - in which the committee of inquiry is required to present its findings with a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. [[IV.]] V. Defines the number of members of the Chamber of Deputies' committee of inquiry to nine and sets out the parities of their election, each member's club being allowed to nominate one member of the committee as usual in the case of other committees of inquiry. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the emergence of this commission of inquiry, to give you the opportunity to discuss the things that have been speculated on for six months, to discuss objectively in the context of the work of this committee, to examine them and to give room for such measures to be taken in the future to change legislation, to cooperate with the authorities concerned, so that this accident will never happen again on our territory to this extent. By voting you will be able to decide and make it clear whether you care about the quality of our environment, whether you care about the work of tens of thousands of fishermen in the Czech Republic, whether what you had written in your various programs and in the government's programming statement that environmental protection is important to you, if you take it seriously. Because this is one of the ways that we can contribute to improving environmental protection in the Czech Republic, and it will also contribute to ensuring that, when we are criticized in many ways, how we operate as politicians and Members, we now have the chance to show that we do not want to sweep anything under the table, but we want to take the utmost steps to dispel even these doubts through transparent activities by this House's investigative committee. Thank you for your support and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u3	I will ask you, as a representative of the MPs, to follow me from the rapporteur's table to the general debate. I am opening up a general debate, and with priority rights the President of the TOP 09 is reporting, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Otherwise, I have a factual remark from Mrs Barbora Kořanová, but that is probably not up to date. It's interesting that they're probably copying the actual notes from the previous points, which is some kind of mistake. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] You're right, I'm sorry, Mr Stanislav Blaha was here in writing, and I said so, yes, so first of all, Mr Stanislav Blaha, Mrs Kořanová, will speak. Some technical error, it shouldn't be copied like this, then I'm getting confused here. Mr Stanislav Blaha will speak with the priority right of the ODS MP and then Mrs Adamová Pekarová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, and I'm asking for peace in the courtroom! There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, fellow Members, 171 days or five months and 20 days, or almost half a year - it takes so long not to investigate the poisoning in Bečva. A failure to investigate, which is characterized by silence, lying, extending deadlines, pointing to those who certainly did not cause the disaster, and, last but not least, by any convicted culprit of this disaster. The Government's approach and its authorities have one clear and clear outcome. It's mistrust, fear, and disgust. This atmosphere is best described by one of the fishermen: "Today it is fish, tomorrow it can be us. " I don't know if Mr. Babiš, Mr. Brabec or Director of the Czech Environmental Inspection Erik Geuss have ever passed around Valašský Meziříčí. Did they talk to the people who live here? If they know Bečva in any other way than the drain canal of a series of chemists. Whether they have ever heard of the sharps, the fat, the parms, the candiers, the catfish, the trout, the carp, or the ticks that were swimming here before September 20, last year, the fridges and the otters that belong to the rich ecosystem of Bečva. If they've ever experienced what it's like to sit by the water all day, watching the glittering surface of the river and waiting for the fish to work. And if they can even imagine a situation where you come to the river that you grew up with, your kids go there to bathe, and all you see is fish swimming through your belly up. And what it must be like to pull those dead fish out of this river with your own hands over 40 tons. I do not know if the Minister of the Environment has ever fished Brabec, but I am sure that as former director of chemist Lovochemie he will know much about the production of ammonium nitrate and calcium, thus fertilisers used in Czech agriculture. This is the real qualification of Mr Brabec as an environmental protector in this country. And if you can think of a saying about a gardener's goat, it's probably very convenient. And so it is appropriate to ask, what can trust in a person in such a colossal conflict of interest be? A man who, five days after the crash, said finding the origin of the poisoning was a matter of days? If today, almost six months after September 20th, do we know anything? The question mark also hovers over the approach of the director of the Czech Environmental Inspection Geuss. He is to be the person who holds a protective hand over the fauna and flora of the Czech Republic, the person who is to guarantee that there will not be such disasters as happened on September 20th, and if they become, he should be the one who will fight most to find the culprit and ensure that such a thing will never happen again. Judge Jiří Klicpera, who was supposed to bring the case to such an expected conclusion and who, unlike other actors in this story, was expected to remain silent at the time of the trial, was only discredited in the public's eyes. The only result of his work are repeated requests for delay of the deadline, not to mention his conflicting and confused statements in style: I do not have the evidence, but I know the culprit. This strikingly resembles the words of the press spokesperson Deza, who shouted to the media the day after the disaster: It was not us! A few months later, journalists discovered that Deza had actually had an accident on September 20th and that Deza had withheld it. State institutions have ignored it until today and have not paid more attention to it. Dear Members, it is 171 days since Bečva became a dead river. There has been no shift in the case since then, and from what has happened so far, it must be clear to everyone, whether you are from the opposition or from the coalition, that state institutions have no interest in investigating the case. That is why I am asking all of you, fellow Members, to support the establishment of the Chamber of Investigation Commission. No one will return life to fish in Bečva, but by voting today you can contribute to saving fish and other animals living in other rivers and in other places of the Czech Republic from the same fate. And believe me, I hate to say this, and I'm knocking on this counter three times: Just because they were fish in September doesn't mean they can't be real people next time. Thank you to all of you who will support the proposal to set up the Commission.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u5	Now with priority rights for the TOP 09, Mrs Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u6	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is not necessary to remind you how much disaster this accident on the Bečva river was, how many tonnes of fish have been fished out by fishermen of the dead, how long the entire ecosystem will be damaged and that it has become a very closely monitored cause and the public is very interested in it. Of course, this is the right thing to do, because it is important not only to our environment as such, but also to whether we are a state where such things are not swept under the carpet. I'd like to read an open letter sent to all of you. And since I'm aware of my own e-mail, of how many messages we have, it's possible that you haven't gotten to it, or you haven't been reached yet. I think it says everything that needs to be mentioned here today before this decision is made. And I consider it really very important in this matter. "Open letter to Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic on the poisoning of the Bečva river, in Valašské Meziříčí on 9. 3. 2021. Madam, honourable Member, we would like to address you together on the issue of the poisoning of the Bečva River. This became the 20th September of last year and we still do not know the perpetrator of this disaster. We are aware that, unfortunately, in these days, weeks and months, you are still dealing with the current issue of the pandemic of coronavirus and are seeking to maintain the most favourable conditions of economic, social and health for us citizens of the Czech Republic. Yet we are sending you this urgent request. The Bečva River was severely damaged on a large part of the flow. The dramatic consequences of poisoning are not merely economic in nature - the death of dozens of tonnes of fish. This is, above all, a hard-to-find environmental disaster. Last September, there was a total disruption of the entire ecosystem of the Bečva river and its result was a dead river. The crash killed fish and other aquatic animals, and it's very lucky that they didn't catch people in and around the river. Returning to the original state, if possible in its entirety, will take many years. In order not to repeat such a situation in the future, it is necessary to determine the cause of its origin and to do so, it is necessary to know the source of the poisoning, including the way in which toxic substances enter the river. But even six months after the crash, the case doesn't seem to be nearing closure, and the investigation seems to be going to a loss. The procedure of the state authorities and institutions involved in the investigation, which we would expect transparent and credible procedure from, i.e. from the beginning, raises only further and other questions, including the summarised on the website of the petitionebecva.cz which has been signed by nearly 20,000 signatories. The approach of the Czech Environmental Inspection is particularly striking, which arouses mistrust from the first day after the accident. A number of operations or procedural procedures of the Police of the Czech Republic are also at issue. Judge . Jiří Klicpera, who saves the crash for the Police of the Czech Republic, repeatedly postpones the publication of his opinions. In addition, he has now found himself in a situation where the police must investigate his actions. Last but not least, it is appropriate to mention the not-so-convincing approach of the Minister of the Environment and the leadership of the city of Valašské Meziříčí to poisoning and we could continue to list other controversial decisions of various public institutions or bodies and their representatives in relation to this case. The reasons outlined above raise doubts as to whether the investigation of poisoning is conducted correctly and thus undermines the public's confidence in state institutions. In view of the gravity of this environmental disaster, we believe that the establishment of the Chamber of Investigation Commission could contribute to the accident in Bečva to address such an unsatisfactory situation. It is known to us that the proposal to vote on the inclusion of a point on the provisions of the Commission of inquiry should be tabled once the Chamber of Deputies has been approved again at the earliest opportunity. We therefore ask for your support in the forthcoming vote on the establishment of a committee of inquiry for the accident in Bečva - first of all on the approval of this proposal for the inclusion of a point at the nearest meeting of the House and subsequently on the approval itself and the provisions of the Commission. Based on an in-depth analysis of the current investigation and an evaluation of the existing findings in collaboration with local actors, which have not yet been provided sufficient room to express and clarify the testimony and context, this commission could shed more light on the investigation of the accident in Bečva. Last but not least, it could also contribute to restoring public confidence in the objectivity of state institutions. Madam, honourable Member, thank you for considering the support of our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for the accident in Bečva. Thank you. Greetings signed by . Stanislav Pernický, Mgr Jan Husák, Mgr Jiří Jurečka and Lenka Halová." Ladies and gentlemen, I was in contact with fishermen who were fishers - and I am actually still in contact with fishermen - who were hunting or dragging dead fish from the river back then. They took risks at that point because they didn't know what poisoned the river. They risked their lives at that point, their health. Some also had a number of health complications and difficulties. They certainly deserve to know what caused the crash, who caused it. They also deserve to be punished, and not only are they signatories to the petition. Indeed, the 20,000 signatures are not enough. People are interested not only in the surroundings of Bečva and in the regions where Bečva flows. It is of interest to all who care how the state and its institutions approach such disasters, because they can be repeated not only on Bečva but also on other rivers. I think it is for the above mentioned in the appeal from these people, but not only them, from those who are very difficult and interested in this case, that it is important that we show that we also care. If, as Minister of the Environment or the absent Minister of the Interior, you are sure that there is absolutely nothing unusual going on, then there can be no further investigation into this matter or any inconvenience to you, that would not make any sense. If you are convinced of the procedures that have been chosen, of the speed with which this is done, and of such things, you should not have any problem raising your hand today to set up a committee and investigating the matter. All members' clubs would be represented fairly by one representative, and thus the clear objectivity of this commission would also be ensured. Therefore, I ask you, if you are so sure that there is nothing going on, show it, prove it by voting for this proposal, that you will put aside the opposition's suggestion, and you will simply want to bring light into this case, which has actually produced a certain odor for a long time, not just for the surrounding river, but especially what is mentioned in the letter itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u7	The President of Radim Fiala will now speak with the SPD's opinion. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, my dear government, my fellow Members, I will take a very brief, brief comment on just a few things. Of course, it concerns Bečva in the first place. I am a Moravian MP, and it is completely incomprehensible to me that nowadays someone can destroy 40 tons of fish, a few kilometers, maybe a few dozen kilometers of river basin, and the police haven't investigated it. [[15.30 hours]] I remember being asked about it by Czech TV editors about six months ago, and besides the fact that I was convinced that it was necessary to support the commission, to set up a committee of inquiry, because there is something rotten here, and I don't know if there's any police or anywhere. It's just not possible these days, so we can't say after a year of investigation that something happened and that someone's to blame. I think it's a principled thing, that it has to be a fall, who fits, and that the natural or legal person just has to get an unconditional punishment. Now what I've decided to do is get off. The whole famous European Union is talking about the so-called Green Deal, how it will reduce emissions, how we will have clean, clean air, how we will reduce CO2, everything that has a carbon footprint is wrong. Cows won't act on meat anymore because they fart and have carbon footprints. That is exactly what the European Commission and the European Union are saying. But here we simply are unable to investigate a total crash that will destroy a piece of our country. This is completely incomprehensible to me that we are going to spend in the future, and as a SPD movement, I am clearly saying that we are not going to support any Green Deal, because it is the ideological madness of green and red-green, but what is simply completely incomprehensible to me and what I think we should be dealing with so that someone does not corrupt and destroy our environment, fauna and flora in the Czech Republic. For the SPD movement, I say we do everything we can to investigate this as soon as possible. We'll look at the investigation committee and see why it hasn't been investigated and who's to blame, because such a thing just can't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u9	Mr František Elfmark will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Krutáková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in exactly ten days, 20 March, that will be six months from the disaster on the Bečva River. In September 2020, none of you would have thought that today, March 10th, we would be dealing with this disaster at all. Unfortunately, it is. After six months, we still don't know the cause or source of the crash, and as my previous speakers have mentioned, many question marks are floating over the case. A court expert who publicly stated in the media in January that he already knew the culprit and merely collected evidence had again extended the time limit within which he was to draw up an opinion. I personally doubt whether all the institutions involved have acted as they should, after all, I have expressed my doubts about this many times on the Committee on the Environment. On the same committee, I explained why I think that Czech environmental inspection in particular was in error, and I also proposed a resolution requesting the appeal of Director Erik Geuss. Finding the cause and place of the accident is one thing, but I consider it necessary, and therefore support the establishment of the Chamber of Investigation Commission. However, to take adequate measures to prevent such situations from being repeated as far as possible is another matter. We consider it necessary to take legislative measures that focus on prevention and a clear approach to accidents. We still lack a methodology, a clear procedure describing the competences, how and when the authorities involved should act in the event of an accident. Therefore, the chair of the committee, my colleague, Dana Balcarová, at the committee meeting next week 17. 3. included at 11 o'clock a point entitled Information by Minister Brabec on the preparation of new legislation aimed at ensuring a uniform approach to the investigation of accidents in the environment and information on the procedure in the investigation of the case of Bečva, which she invited the Minister to. I very much hope that we will receive good news from the Minister and that the new legislation is in the process of creation. But the crash in Bečva is not just a political cause - as we all perceive and see from the beginning, it has aroused great emotions among the general public. More than a hundred articles have already been published in the media about this case, which is not indifferent to the river and life. There have been many initiatives, many groups, petitions and so on. I would like to thank all the initiatives here and I would like to introduce you to them. We have created a web for this case Za livou Bečvu.cz and you will find there all the things that have been in the media for this case to this day. We made it so that citizens who aren't aware of what happened and don't know the line in time can read everything. Arnika's petition for the challenge A total of 6 737 people have signed rivers without poisons to date. Petitions for clarifying the procedure of the authorities What really happened on Bečva or 8 questions that the public deserves to know the answer to has been signed by 18,328 citizens to date. Petition for Justice for Bečva!, petition for thorough examination of Bečva poisoning - 3,203 signatures. Poisoned Bečva is not indifferent to us!, Facebook page with 3,000 members. Bečva no poisons - facebook page, 822 members. The art for the restoration of Bečva or Bečva flows through our hearts, streamed concerts and so on, the benefit auction of works of art and artists - up to this day it has chosen 197 018 crowns to restore life in the Bečva River. ReBečvuj project - you can contribute to the investigative activities of journalists. There was Light for Bečva, it is a whole republic thing, not only in Prague but also in Jaroměř, in Hradec Králové. Just for the record: 102 people registered in Hradec Králové and so on. If you look at Help us revive the Bečva River, when a transparent account was opened and to date over a million crowns were selected to restore the Bečva River. All these initiatives, and I think that I may not have found all of them, deserved me to thank them for the environment, and not just the river Bečva, but the environment in general, is not indifferent and that they perceive that something is not right in this particular case. I would very much like the commission to be set up today, but I would much rather not have to do anything, the case was long overdue, and we have taken such measures together in committee with the Ministry to prevent this matter from happening again in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u11	Now a factual remark, Mr Pavel Růžička, and Mrs Jana Krutáková will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to put a little order in this, what a disaster it is, because our legal framework does not know this concept, so I would like to make sure, because some speakers here have talked about the accident, some have talked about the disaster, so that it is clear what we are talking about, because if someone can't even formulate the name of the committee of inquiry, it is sad. So we only know the concept of an emergency under the Integrated Rescue System Act, and those emergencies are divided into a particular group, so I'm here to help you. We have an operational accident here, the Act on the Integrated Rescue System is talking about it: large-scale accidents caused by selected hazardous substances. So if you're trying to do something here, at least do it so there's a legal framework. To the Minister: I am a member of the Defence Committee and a member of the Security Committee. We have tried several times to get the D.A.'s committee to comment on the cases that are in progress and save themselves on live cases. The state's attorney was never able to get there because he always said it was in the investigation and that he would comment when the investigation was over. So, President Pekarová Adamová and Mr Blaha, you are questioning the activities of prosecutors and police. That's great, so you always question it when it suits you, and when it doesn't suit you, you say they do the job superbly. I can't imagine the Minister of the Environment interfering with anything, because whatever he does, you're going to comment that it's wrong. If he pressured the police, you'd say if the result wasn't based on your belief that the Minister had influenced it. When the Minister acts seriously, it bothers you too. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u13	Mr Marian Jurečka and Mrs Jana Krutáková are still waiting in the general debate. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u14	Thank you. I would like to say very briefly to my predecessor - clearly this point has its material, it is House document 7332, where we are talking about an environmental disaster on the Bečva river, so we know clearly what we want and what we are asking for. I have tabled a motion for a resolution here with specific points, and when each Member looks into the Rules of Procedure of the Commission of Investigation, there are clear descriptions of competences. I didn't mention anything about our ambition here to subpoena the investigation that's going on. I have clearly said here that this commission is far more outnumbered than what police and law enforcement authorities can investigate, because these resolutions also talk about us assessing the overlaps in the regulation of legislative matters, matters of competence. That is why I am convinced - and it is not here that we are smearing the subject politically in some way, unless there is any will on your part or on the part of members of the ANO movement to torpedo the formation of this commission. Because when you look at the points that I've designed here, they're clear, factual, concrete, they're heading for the target. They're not aiming at us bypassing the activities of law enforcement agencies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u15	A factual point, Mr Stanislav Blaha, so far the only application for a factual one. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have to respond, too, because I've been mentioned. I think so, yes, that's one of the approaches, we can say words here, and we can dissect the various speeches and see which of the Members called the event. It doesn't matter if I say it was a disaster or if it was an accident. The real and most important thing is what is in the official material in the motion for a resolution, as described by the commission. So we can do this here, but it really only means that 40 tons of fish died at least in Bečva and that to this day, almost half a year later, it is not solved. That's the subject of our investigation and our discussion today. And to the Minister that he did not comment on the case: well, he, just as he had said, was clearly not observed what he had promised us, that it would be examined in the order of several days. And on the silence of the police: the police normally hold press conferences where they give some partial information about what they're saving. It is rather strange how it is possible that the forensic expert whom the police ordered - he should be silent, and he is speaking in the media, telling his assumptions and communicating publicly. So there's been a lot of doubt about this case over the past six months, and the group's goal is to clear it up and find an explanation. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u17	Now I'll read the apology. Apologies are requested by Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček from 14:00 to the end of the day for work reasons. I will now request a speech from Mrs Jana Krutáková, otherwise the Minister has just apologized for a sanitary break. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the mayor movement and independent of the establishment of an investigation committee on the case of a disaster on the Bečva river. Although it may seem that the tragedy that took place on Bečva six months ago is over, the opposite is true. We will deal with its consequences for years. In order to avoid a similar accident, it is necessary not only to investigate properly, to find the culprit, but also to update the relevant legislation, especially in the area of prevention and management of similar accidents. Since we still don't know the culprit six months after the crash, and it looks like the investigation has gone to a dead end, it is necessary to set up a House Investigation Commission to crash in Bečva. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you five arguments as to why this is the case. Firstly, the procedure of state authorities and institutions involved in the investigation - in our opinion, it does not act transparently and their procedure constantly raises doubts, such as the immediate removal of Deza from the investigation. Secondly, which has already been mentioned here several times, forensic expert Mr. . Jiří Klicpera investigates the accident for the Czech police, but repeatedly postpones the publication of her opinions. Moreover, he is now being investigated by the police for his recent statements. Third, key witnesses were heard late. Fishermen, event reporters, and many others who were on the scene first and also first to take water samples, were not heard by the police until a few days later. Fourth, it is clear from the publicly available information that the investigation primarily focuses on the area of the former Tesla Rožnov, which is, however, almost 20 kilometers away from the site of the poisoning, its release is 3.5 kilometers away from the site of the poisoning and throughout this length Bečva was without trace of poisoning. And fifthly, the very duration of the entire investigation also points to an inefficient procedure by investigators. These are, in my view, the main reasons why the commission of inquiry should be set up and supported by the establishment of the mayor and independent movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u19	Mr Ondřej Benešík will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Podal will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u20	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed the environmental disaster in Bečva here in the Chamber of Deputies at the end of last October. Since then, there has been much water in the poisoned river. There has also been a petition by citizens signed by over 18,000 signatories. However, doubts that have justifiably arisen in connection with this disaster have not yet been scattered. Many questions have not been answered satisfactorily to this day, so I will remind some of them. Is it really a source of Bečva's contamination from the Rožnov Tesla canal? How is it possible that the Bečva River was evidently intact several kilometres under the alleged source of pollution, especially under low river flow conditions on 20. 9. 2020? How is it possible that, as a possible source of pollution, inter-říčská chemist Deza has been eliminated very quickly in the suspect's circle the day after the accident? This was done on the basis of an investigation by the Czech Environmental Inspection Authority, which is part of the Ministry of Environment's strategy. The city's citizens didn't know about cyanide in the river and the health risks associated with it until four days later, the Deza accident was only a few weeks later from the media. Even Czech environmental inspection was unpleasantly surprised at the time. How can it be excluded responsibly as a possible source of pollution from a company with a channel that allows the discharge of sewage containing cyanides from the biological sewage treatment plant directly into the Bečva stream? In addition, the chemical cleaner was in the test operation last year and the discharge of waste water was to be solved by a bypass. What companies besides Deza are allowed to release cyanide into the river? Has there been expert testing of the sewer network? Are all the sewers located in or near the area known? How do you explain the fact that Deza carried out a non-standard waste water analysis at eight o'clock this morning on the day of the accident when no one else knew about it? Deza says it was a regular measurement. So why haven't they provided documentation to date showing that the measurements were really planned? [[15.50 hours]] It's not just a question of substance. Trust cannot be aroused by the fact that institutions that are saving the matter are unable to reveal who leaked cyanide in six months' time. It can only be hoped that, for example, a terrorist chemical attack on drinking water sources would be dealt with faster and more adequately. In such a situation, it would be necessary to identify the source of lightning pollution. And it's also lucky to be 20. 9. there was no human tragedy, because it was not far from there. Some fishermen who pulled dead fish observed health complications, such as burned hands or nosebleeds. If we don't know how the crash happened, it may happen again in the future. We must therefore do everything we can together to minimise such a risk. KDU-ČSL therefore wants to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Already twice the members of the ANO and KSČM movement and a part of the non-attached Members have blocked the inclusion of this item at the meeting. Perhaps these Members don't care what happens to our nature. But it is one thing for us, Members of the KDU-ČSL, and it is none of the citizens of our country. Just look at the content of the Bečva petition for clarifying the procedure of the authorities in this case. There's only one thing we have of nature, and indifference to it couldn't pay us off uglylylyly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u21	Mr Zdeněk Podal will be next to appear and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u22	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'd start with the facts. 20. 9. 2020 was the accident on a stretch of 38 kilometres of Bečva, where 40 tonnes of fish were subsequently fished dead. Those are well-known facts. Less known facts that are not mentioned here - and today I have a report from the territorial union of the Hradec Králové Region from the fishing union - Orlice up to Jablonný, 25 kilometers, also spent. There were several commissions, of course they signed some statements, saw something, until now nothing. What has to do with the denominator of all these accidents, none of you here are talking about it. Look on TV, there's guys with trash, picking up dead fish, taking it to the rendering machine at the expense of the organizations. I'm a member of the fishing union myself, I know what I'm talking about, no one's gonna give you anything. We fish the river out of our money, there's gonna be this kind of poisoning, there's gonna be a commission, there's talk about it, it looks like a waste of the state. Do you know what the law is? Completely senseless. I don't understand him. If the fishermen give you their money, they'll fish the river, then at that point, the fish will be destroyed. Nobody! That means nobody owns it. And those fishermen clean up, fish and wait for another disaster, when it dies again, they clean up again, they fish again. It's nice, but it can't last forever. Let's face it - let's look for ways, because it's not a shame to anyone, it's a shame to those fishermen. We still couldn't admit it. We have another Mr. Martin here. He's a guy from practice who's in charge of the Fish Union in the Highlands. So please, let's look for ways to compensate the fishermen for the damage, and let's not make this any more devastating. It's not a matter of anyone, it has a specific disabled, Czech fishing union. Thank you for your attention. Petrův's luck!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u23	Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now appear and prepare Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting myself to you now and after agreement with our colleagues in the club with the KSČM club's position on this matter. There's no way I want to question the event, the extraordinary event that happened on the Bečva River, and the consequences that were there. No way, and I would also very much like to find out who was the culprit of this incident, this accident, or what happened. In fact, I would like to disagree a little with my previous speaker, Mr Zdeněk Podal, although we understand each other very much. It is not entirely true that, in criminal proceedings, dead fish would be nobody's and that there would be no damage. If the criminal proceedings are ongoing and the police then track someone down and instruct them, they teach exactly as a damaged Czech fishing union according to the location, according to the sectional parts where the fishing association is currently operating. Mr. Colleague, you can trust me because in the past, I have had the opportunity to investigate this crime, so I know that even if it happens that someone is illegally hunting fish or animals, we call it poaching, it's both in criminal form and in crime, so the animal in the forest belongs to someone, and it's either the hunting, it's the state, it's just something and those fish are the same thing. So always, always there's someone who's been damaged. It's just a short turn. And the investigation itself. You know, I don't... I don't know how many of you colleagues who have submitted this proposal, how many of you have already been members of the committee of inquiry and what you expect from it. Of course, I understand that here, when we talk about some of the health issues, we all understand that, because at least once we've all been sick, and we all know what it's about. We don't care what colleagues, doctors or health professionals, medical personnel say, we all understand. Education, that's a cool topic too. We all get together here and we get together and sometimes it's hard to hear because we all go to school, so we have a lot of experience, we can talk about this and we're all experts. And we all have so much expertise here that I'm thinking that sometimes we're supermans, what you can and can do, but we're not willing to admit that we just can't do anything, and those committees of inquiry are just a political game that we're playing here and we're trying to achieve something. Basically, the conclusions of the committees of inquiry usually lead to nothing, or when they lead to some kind of criminal complaint, we ended up filing a criminal report and the relevant prosecutors or police aren't gonna do it anyway, or they're gonna put it off. I was a member of two committees of inquiry, and at my club I said, "Thank you, as a former investigator, I don't want to participate in this clown shop anymore." You know, I was a member of the committee of inquiry, when I was basically ashamed of what we're doing there as members of the committee of inquiry, when we are - and now I'm taking the liberty here, I see a fellow in a green sweater - when the interviewer asked questions to the interviewer and said, "Confirm that the person XY was wearing a red sweater." And he says, you can't ask a question like that, I can't say he was wearing a red sweater. It took a while to guess, until the interrogator told the writer. Write that the interviewer refuses to confirm his statement. Or he refuses to say anything. You can't even interrogate like that. You just can't do that. The question was: what was the Member wearing that day? If we find out that she was wearing a sweater - I don't want to say it's a sweater - just something not to be here again, that somebody's wearing a sweatshirt, even if that's what crazy people are capable of - she was wearing something. And I have to say. Yes, she was wearing something and what color it was. Dark? Light? Yellow? We can go all the way to that, but with a system of questions. Don't be mad at me, dear colleagues, but none of you can do that, because you all think you've seen CSI - and now I don't know what all the CSIs are called, what those supermans of America are gonna do, they're gonna analyze them right away, they're gonna do DNA, they're gonna do everything in 24 hours, and they've got the perpetrator. That's just the way it is, we're all looking at it, we're saying, "They're guys, why can't the Czech cops do it, are they so dumb?" No, they're not so dumb, they're just doing it based on how you can just do it and how you do it. And the results are comparable to those of foreign colleagues. And speaking of something going to happen here, do you know what the percentage of criminal clarity in our country is? We'll talk like... Of course, it's based on the kind of crime, we have a very good explanation for violent crime, but for the property clarification, let's say, in the order of tens of percent, let's say one third, and two thirds remain unexplained. Unfortunately, even such a situation may remain unclear. But believe that the authorities involved in criminal proceedings, in this case the police, are doing everything possible to gather information and obtain evidence and, of course, the physical or legal person who would commit such an emergency has caught up in court and in the face of imaginary justice. If we're going to argue, and we're already essentially saying that the authorities are sweeping something under the rug, that environmental inspections... inspections -- I think the environment -- doesn't work the way it should work -- they're pretty strong charges. Those are pretty strong accusations! If you have such information, do so, submit such evidence, within the police provide suggestions to the Department of Internal Control, or to the General Inspection of the Security Corps, if there is, the Czech Environmental Inspection. Let's talk about this, they're supposed to be investigating the authorities. I guarantee you that they'll take it from the police authorities that aren't related at all, and they won't even be there at some point, let's say, in any way, in any connection with the authorities. We have our own procedures for everything. [[16.00 hours]] And we're here to say that you can really do more and that we're better? Do you really think you can interrogate that you can get the evidence? How do you get them? Have you ever read the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies concerning the committees of inquiry? Did you see what it says about the investigation committee? Do you know what his powers are? When you invite someone to interrogate, and that person doesn't come - and I think a colleague here showed it to you on a committee of inquiry, I think it was OKD when he showed you that he would never show up here? And I don't think you ever got him here. So what do we want to play at? Do you really want to show that you are super Members and that you have more powers than the law enforcement authorities that have the whole criminal code to do so? We have two paragraphs in the Rules of Procedure, maybe three, but what the police have, the whole criminal code, and often how many times the police are, let's just say, not helpless, but they come across the procedural limits of how far they can, so we say that it's not enough that we can do more. You can't do anything! You can't do anything, you can't do anything! I have read here the motion to set up a committee, where there is a motion for a resolution. Don't be mad at me, but you can make me laugh: "Saves the Chamber of Deputies' examination committee for an environmental disaster and thus further gather all the evidence for the environmental disaster on the Bečva River of 20 September 2020 and subsequent accidents in the past year." Okay, you'll gather something. Are you going to collect it duplicately yourself, or what do you have in mind? That you call the police and say, "Hey, fellow cops, give us everything you've learned so far, and we'll look into it. What answer do you expect? I'll tell you at the very beginning. The law enforcement authority will tell you that pre-trial proceedings are non-public and will not give you anything. Period. And if you're standing on your head clapping with your ears, you're just not going to achieve anything else. So you'll be looking for it again. Okay, you have the right, you're a committee of inquiry, so he's looking for it. Then you have item two: "To verify the evidence obtained and to draw any criminal liability for any irregularities found." Great. So you guys are so badass you can do with your legal qualifications, which you all have here, but none of you have the qualifications of a police investigator or an authority active in criminal proceedings; So some of you are lawyers so I don't completely lower the authority here, so you'll evaluate the materials and find out any criminal liability. Damn it, where's the presumption of innocence? That criminal responsibility is to be brought up by the police authorities and to submit it in agreement with the prosecutor and to accuse either legal or natural persons of the infringement, but the courts then decide on the guilt. Of course you do, but we didn't think we'd blame anyone. We'll send the criminal report. So we're basically saying now that we're gonna get evidence that the police can't give us because they've been screwing around for six months, but we're gonna get it because we're cool, we're gonna evaluate it because we're better than those cops who can't do anything anyway because they're gonna sweep it under the rug, that's your idea, and we're gonna say, "This is how you should have done it." And you're gonna give it to the D.A. Question: "Do we need the Police of the Czech Republic?" I think we can cancel it. Third: "Evaluate, on the basis of the supporting documents obtained, the accuracy of the procedure of the authorities concerned of the State and of other persons, their possible procedural errors or laxity." Well, that's a great inquisition. I understand, of course, that some parties were closer to this historically, but the accuracy of the procedure of the authorities concerned... We will evaluate whether Czech environmental inspection, we will evaluate whether the Police of the Czech Republic, whether the state prosecutor acted in accordance with the law, and determine possible errors? Aren't there any other control authorities? We don't have internal control unions at the police station, do we not have a general inspection of the security forces and other institutes that I was talking about here? If not, we can cancel everything. That's what we'll save in the state administration, because we can only say: The Chamber of Deputies has 200 supertenders - 199, don't count me there - who can do anything. So no! Fourthly, "Keep an eye on the implementation of the resolution." Okay, that'll work. Then it is good, I must read it to you: "It stores the government of the Czech Republic and the state authorities concerned to provide the investigative commission of the Chamber of Deputies with full cooperation in the functioning." Do you think that by imposing on the government that the government can impose on the police authority, or the Home Office and the police authority, to give you the file material that it's collected so far? That will be a piece of paper, a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. Police and prosecutors act on the basis of the law and Constitution of the Czech Republic. I repeat again, preliminary criminal proceedings are not public by law, so they will provide you with nothing at all. Of course, I understand that we're worried that it's taking so long. It bothers me, too, but remember the other cases that were, and historically - trains collided over there by the Studénka or where it was when the bridge fell and the Pendolino flew into it. I think that expert opinion - at that time I was still active in active duty, so I know - that the expert opinion at that time also lasted more than a year before they simply reached the end. Take it when they collided to please my chairman, the miga over České Budějovice. The miga investigation, and I saw the file because the investigator at the time was, say, a friend of mine, we knew each other from different work meetings, so I had the opportunity to see the file afterwards - then see, I note, when it was over, and then when we discussed it as part of my work as a writer of the Criminalistic proceedings. And when I saw that expert report, well, my dear colleagues, if you think you can do better than those engineers, I'm really taking my hat off in front of you. Remember, it wasn't that long ago, Moravia, she still has some cases, a munitions bomb exploded in Vrbetice. How long before the law enforcement authorities got to the blast epicenter to investigate the crime scene? Was it in a week? Was it in a month? Was it in a year? How long did it take to eliminate this emergency? Months and years. Months and years! And what's our output on what's been done there? Colleagues, in this situation, I say I want to know the culprit. I want to know the culprit who caused this incident, and I would very much like the culprit to be tracked down by the competent authorities, that is to say, the Police of the Czech Republic under the supervision of the State Attorney in cooperation with the Czech Environmental Inspection, with the participation of the appropriate number of experts. It's not about whether I want to say right now that it's my fault, and now I don't know what the place is called, which belongs to Babiš, I don't give a damn if it's there or not, because I always care about justice. And if you want to patronize law enforcement agencies here, I don't think you're doing well. You're not doing well, because sometimes our pompousness, as we're all the best and we're all good at everything, then it leads me to be part of those committees of inquiry and I had to be ashamed of what we're doing there, and then when the police asked us to give them the materials that we collected in the investigation committee, I crucified as an atheist and basically asked them to set fire to the building rather than release it to them, because otherwise the police would find out what dilettes were sitting in that investigation committee and what we were doing there. So for our part - and I dare say for the MP's club - we will not support the emergence of this committee of inquiry because we trust law enforcement authorities and do not condone their activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u25	Good afternoon. We will continue with factual remarks, so Mrs Balaštíková will have to wait a little longer. First, Mr Jurečka with a factual remark, then Mr Podal, then Mr Benešík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u26	Thank you. When I heard my previous speaker here, it was such a beautiful demonstration: find me all the arguments to say we don't want anything. This means, let's not look for ways to achieve the result, but let's look for reasons to reject it. And there's one thing I'm gonna point out. I would have trusted my previous speaker if KSČM had not supported any investigation committee in the past, because the arguments that my colleague has put up with here could actually be said that for every previous committee of inquiry, even for the last one that was set up here in this 8th parliamentary term of the House, and that was the committee of inquiry for OKD. If you were consistent, and if you really wanted to measure the same metro for everyone and say the same argumentation, and they would fit OKD exactly the same, and the problem with the whole question of OKD is much more complex than maybe this situation around Bečva, you would have come out here seven years ago and you would have swept up the argumentative proposal to set up an investigation committee for OKD. But you, as communists, supported it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u27	Thank you. The Member has now Podal a point of fact, then Mr Benešík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to respond to Mr. Ondráček. Really, it's not personal, but I'm trying to defend the interests of the fishing union. I was just on the phone with them, and I was told the following: it's nonsense. First, there is a difference between running water leased and there is a difference between the pond that the fishing association has bought and is its property. They will then become parties to such proceedings if anything is investigated. But they still say, within - and we are both from here - within the Eastern Bohemian territorial union up to 10 per cent, they return some money in such accidents, which doesn't even express the value of what the fishing union invested in it. And that's what I'm talking about, there's been a huge injustice in the long run. We're talking about everything, but the committee's gonna prove it? Someone's guilty, he'll thank the fishermen and goodbye. Wouldn't it be time to say, in accidents like this, when he puts his money in it, his job, so they can also get compensation? Like a cormorant? I think it's time we dealt with this. Those people have had enough, they're not gonna be doing endlessly stupid things and cleaning up for somebody else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Benešík, Mr Blaha Stanislav will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u30	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I certainly do not think that the investigating committee of the Chamber of Deputies is supposed to subpoena the work of the Police of the Czech Republic. After all, almost all speakers who have spoken to this and who support the creation of such an investigative committee have made it clear that one of the main reasons is to avoid and minimize the risk of such accidents in the future, and that is simply what the Chamber of Deputies can do. In my opinion, it is a unique platform to look at, for example, where there are systemic errors, how to regulate legislation. Or recommendations on how to regulate legal and lower legal forces, so that's one of the main reasons. Please, let's not confuse this, and they certainly don't have any inquisition here or the subpoenaing of police work -- no way. I don't see it that way. But if we are to learn lessons and if we are to minimize the possibility of such accidents, we are very likely to need to regulate legislation, and that is one of the main reasons why this committee should arise, and it has unique parameters for this. I would also like to say that the comparison of Vrbetic, the ammunition warehouse, and the Bečva River is a little farfetched. She doesn't run far from the Vrbětice, it's also in our country in Zlín Region, a beautiful region which, as you can see, is severely tested by such disasters. Because it's logical that the cops couldn't go to Vrbetic immediately because it was a territory full of explosives. But those fishermen who pulled dead fish out of the water and suffered health damage, they were there almost immediately. There's a big difference where anybody could have gotten here and how fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u31	Thank you. So now, Mr Blaha, Mr Zlesák will be prepared, then I have other factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I also want to respond to Mr Ondráček. Mr Ondráček, through the Vice-President, I have listened very carefully to your argument as to how this is not actually possible, how we are all incapable of achieving anything here, but you have not listened to us at all. My colleague Benešík here clearly named why we want the committee of inquiry. It is not only what happened and has not yet been investigated, but also what can happen in the future and that these parameters can be set differently and better. I never questioned the police's work, but I said that those who were supposed to provide the police with evidence immediately after the crash just failed, so the police are really cooking out of the water, it's all about water. And you convinced me that you're actually just trying to defend why you don't want to support it by comparing it to the Vrbětice. Why couldn't the investigators go to that place? Because there was a lot of active ammo everywhere. You might send them, but no one else would. So you realize that this comparison is completely out. And after you told us everything here, the final sentence underlined it all, we've been waiting for that all along. We, Members of the KSČM, will not support this because we are part of a government coalition and as such we cannot afford it, so that is all. That argument didn't have to be made here at all, because it was all proxy reasons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u33	Thank you. Mr Zlesák now, Mr Ondráček will prepare for a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I couldn't do it. I have to respond. I'm a trained water operator, I worked as a water operator and environmentalist at an important engineering firm. The expert here is amazed and the layman must be surprised. It is often said here that to learn in the future, minimize the emergence of similar events and so on. I'm just here for your information. On the website of the Czech Environmental Inspection, you will find examples of major water accidents from 1964 to 2019. How many of these major water events do you think are there? There's almost 30 of them. Thirty! What happened in Bečva is very sad, but this has also happened in the past, and our legislation has learned from this, has learned from it Czech environmental inspection and law enforcement authorities, which now want to interfere with their work. Just for example. I still remember vividly that there was a leak of concentrated cyanide waters into the Elbe river in Draslovka Kolín in 2006, which caused the death of at least 10 tons, some sources speak 30, 40 tons, and on a stretch of 80 kilometers of Elbe, which was similar to a similar accident, perhaps a little smaller, but it was already there once.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u35	Thank you. Mr Ondráček, Vice-President Filip will prepare for factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u36	Thank you. Maybe I was talking too quickly or I wasn't clear enough, I'm sorry. My colleague Benešík says we want to find out something. My colleague, I am based on the motion for a resolution. If you see anything there - and I read it to you at point II and point III. If you see any of what you have just said here, through Mr President, in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure, then point it out to me. That you want a committee of inquiry to change legislation or something. There's nothing like that in that resolution. There's no such thing. So... I guess it's pointless, of course we're all built for it somehow. A colleague from the ODS: KSČM is not part of the government coalition, it has no government responsibility, it tolerates this government on specific matters that benefit citizens of the Czech Republic to the benefit of citizens of the Czech Republic. You may be buying, which is why you and the government have agreed on the pandemic law and some other things, so we don't have to talk about who's working with who. [[16.20 hours]] And to my honored colleague Zdeněk Podal, through the President. We're talking about different things. He's damaged. The damage is the fishing union, the someone, but you're talking about damages, and I fully agree that the compensation should be. Ideal, if the union or whoever it is is somehow insured, it can be paid by the insurance company - I understand that insurance is expensive, so it isn't insured. Let's talk about it, calmly, and I think we could discuss it with the Minister of the Environment. I fully agree with this - because it is not only damage to fish, but also damage to forest animals and possibly others - to seek some form of compensation, because I appreciate the work of fishermen, my daughter is a fisherman. Even notice who has the exception to curfew tonight? Well, fishermen! We all have to sit on our asses at home, but fishermen can go fishing. So you can see that it's a guild here, so we're a little confused, but otherwise good. [[The President: Time, Mr. Ambassador]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u37	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Vice-President Filip, Mrs Fialová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u38	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Member, Members, I will be austerity. It is not true that no commission of inquiry has ever found anything. If ever in the past the commission of inquiry The Chamber of Deputies prevented more damage, so it was the commission of inquiry in the Diag Human case. To this day, those who wanted to make billions of profits do not know how to deal with the fact that this commission of inquiry has secured documents in Belgium and Holland that have reduced the damage caused here. What is the fundamental difference - and if it was an investigation committee for the General Health Insurance Company, if it was to reconstruct the D47 - the investigation committee was never set up for a live police file. That's the difference. That's the difference, so please. Yes, I have absolutely no objection to investigating what is to be investigated in the Chamber of Deputies' committee of inquiry, but first of all, when - and I have written several times a motion to set up a committee of inquiry for a KSČM MP, I have never dared to put in that proposal a matter belonging to another body. It belongs to another organ! And this is what Zdeněk Ondráček pointed out here when he said that we cannot replace activities such as GIBS with the Police of the Czech Republic or other control bodies. Then write it properly and then we'll support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Fialová, with a factual point, then Mr Jurečka. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u40	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. I will, through Mr President, speak to Mr Benešík. And exactly the same - the great, beneficial intention you're talking about in the opening word, the regulation of legislation. But you want to investigate a living file. There's never really been a committee of inquiry for a living file. And if you want to edit, I'll follow up with my colleague Zlesák: there are X cases that can be learned from. Therefore, call this group another way, not to the currently under investigation case on the Bečva river, call it anything else, and I will support the investigation committee. Not a living case. And if you insist on it this way, it's just alibiism, and you're dragging politics and visibility into it on something that's really supposed to be saved by our police, our law enforcement authorities. I trust them, I wait for their result, and I look forward to it very much. I'll be glad to finally know the culprit, but they're not supposed to replace the police office as representatives of nine political parties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u41	Thank you. Now, with Mr Jurečka's factual remark and then Mr Výborný's final remark at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u42	Thank you. I am glad that the President of the KSČM here has introduced the Communist Party's approach to committees of inquiry into a different light than his colleague Ondráček. As far as the matter is concerned, as some of you are saying here, this committee is meant to enter some living writings and the like, please, nicely, it's a complete demagogy where you're moving it now or where you want to move it so that you have some pseudoargument towards some part of your public. If we are talking about evaluating the progress of the State authorities concerned, then let us see how the progress was done in terms of the river basin, in terms of the Czech environmental inspection, in terms of the officials of the municipalities with extended scope. These are all also the authorities of the state where it is appropriate to see if they have done the right thing. If we hear from the fishermen who were there first, that they took samples and those samples de facto in the story from the information they have, today they have no valid decision-making issue, they have doubts as to whether they have been damaged or not. Those are all the things I think we need to hear these people out here. These people write to us and say, "We fear that we do not really want our view of the matter, our submission of explanations or our testimony directly. So these are the moments when we need to deal with it. I understand, of course, when Members who are neither from the region nor from the county come out here. I am today the only MP who is from the district of Přerov, from all over this House, from the district that was most affected by this accident. The accident happened - we don't know exactly - but a few kilometers across the border of the district of Přerov, on the territory of the Zlín Region, the district of Valašské Meziříčí, sorry, Vsetín, if I'm not mistaken, and subsequently was hit by Hustopeče and other cadastras below along the river Bečva. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u43	Thank you. With the last point of fact, Mr. Výborný is registered according to the equipment, but he is not present and I do not know how it happened. I think that Members should be more careful to sign off when they leave the O.R. Mr Benešík wants to make a point of fact. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u44	Thank you for the floor. I think that this committee of inquiry can really contribute to the next time we avoid or set conditions to minimize the possibility of such damage, and if someone is missing it in the resolution, of course it is a motion for a resolution, so it can be supplemented, but I believe that the letter (e) of the motion for a resolution speaks about it: see to it that the House of Deputies resolution No. 1391 of the 72nd meeting of 3 December 2020, which imposes appropriate tasks on both the Government and the Minister of the Environment. I'm not quite sure I wasn't able to track it down that fast, but I think that's when we ordered the minister and the government to come up with these moves, so it's indirectly there. And if anybody has a problem with that and wants to see it explicitly or more clearly, then of course it can be supplemented. Again, it is a motion for a resolution that can be worked with, but I still think it is contained in it when one looks at it in more detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u45	Thank you. Mr Ondráček has yet to make a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u46	If we wanted to make some legislative changes, why do we need an investigation committee to do that? I mean, that's what the other organs of the House are for. We can work on an environmental committee or whatever. I spoke to my honored colleague, Mrs Pěnčíková, who even says she's already told you on the committee. Then form a working group on the committee. After all, you have a legislative initiative as Members, a group of Members, when you do it across the political spectrum, so has a chance to go through it. We are doing something like this on the Security Committee as standard, where the President, Vice-Presidents, members of the Committee will sign. You've witnessed several times when I've proposed some laws here that we've come up with something across the political spectrum, and we've managed to enforce it here. So I'm not defending legislative change, I'm just asking why it's a committee of inquiry. Let's just talk about this on the committee, or subcommittees, or we can form a working group, and let's talk about it, about legislation. But you guys are dealing with something a little different here, colleagues, and I brought it to your attention. It's not in relation to whether it's in relation to the government or not. I am simply saying this because I am a former police investigator, who has also been under various pressure to put some information right here, for the Chamber of Deputies, and I have always avoided it and we have always been able to face it, we have never provided anything here. And when we did - thank you to our Prime Minister for talking about the Diag Human investigation committee, if I was speaking, I apologize, but I only spoke in eight years since I was here in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, for about the seven committees of inquiry that were here, so, yes, I do not have such historical knowledge as the President, who, let's say, has been here a little longer than I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u47	Thank you. I will recall the obligation to turn to other Members by my means, but I understand that this was circumstantial. Now, please, Mr Jurečka, who has yet to make a point of fact, last at this time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u48	I'm just gonna take the liberty of not having the public here, just so we're clear. Mr Ondráček certainly knows this, he just forgot to say that, of course, all the working groups that will arise here, but also the subcommittees and committees of the Chamber of Deputies have other options, even competence options than the committee of inquiry. That's just the way it is. When we look into the law, into the Rules of Procedure, and right into the part that concerns the commission of inquiry, it's obvious there. I must say, colleagues, when I listen to you, please lift up, come personally to Valašský Meziříčí, Hustopečí nad Bečvou and to these parts of the Zlínský or Olomouc Region and come tell these people personally. Come, Mr. Ondráček, and some others who explain how this is not possible, how it does not make sense, come to those people - fishermen, representatives of organisations who have been doing this for a long time and live there in that part of our country - come tell them all the arguments you have made here. That's a good thing to say when you're from a completely different part of the Republic, when it doesn't concern your region, when the people you're neighbors don't have problems with. That's what the Imperial Council says. But really, look at it with this optic. I understand your colleague can't be here, your deputy for the Olomouc Region's KSČM, but I wonder if he would speak the same argument. If he, who has a 20-mile crow flies to these people, were to make the same arguments as you say why the investigation committee doesn't make sense. Just to point out, this morning I had a chat with Jan Kasal, also a long-time matador to the Chamber of Deputies, who reminded some others, apart from the Diag Human Commission of Investigation, which made sense in the 1990s, concerning some steps in privatization, IPB and others. They had meaning, they had conclusions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u49	Thank you. Now, with Mr Ondráček's factual remark, and then I have the priority right of Vice-President Filip. So Mrs Balaštíková will have to wait a little longer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u50	After all - to my colleague - if I want to make legislation, I do not have to link the paragraphs that are in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to the committee of inquiry, where the powers of the committee of inquiry are. Otherwise, if you ask for any information within the framework of the interpelation or in any other way, you will receive the information as a Member. You get it, and I can't imagine anyone not giving me that information, and I'm going to go get acquainted with information that's classified, and it never happened that anyone would tell me that I wouldn't get that information as an MP. So if I want to make legislation, let's not say that I need to follow the provisions of the Rules of Procedure Committee. As for you, my colleague, through Mr President, if you want to tell me that the committee of inquiry must support the Member who lives in the region, that is something that is wrong. That's something wrong, because you promised to follow your best knowledge and conscience, not the fact that you're from a region and that someone wants you to do it. I can stand up to anyone and tell them why I don't want it. I'm not saying that I don't want to do this because I don't want to investigate anything, but I'm saying that there are other bodies that are supposed to do it, and we're in an open case that is simply investigating and investigating it, and I trust these authorities, whether it's Czech Environmental Inspection or whether it's the Police of the Czech Republic. When I don't trust them, I'm gonna say it here on the microphone, just like I can say I don't trust justice on some issues, I can say it, and I don't have a problem with that. Because I only follow the promise I made to my best knowledge and conscience, not the region I'm from.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u51	Thank you. Those were all factual points. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Filip, then Mrs Balaštíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to limit myself to those two minutes, so one more time. You know, I understood exactly what my colleague said, and I think many of us understood it. In my practice in the 1990s, I have come many times to deal with the damage involved in hunting farming, fishing, as is the case with bees. It's not funny. Colleague He said the most fundamental thing here: that I would buy fish, then the fish would destroy them for a while, because it is in the water, and the appropriation of it by catching it on the line is dealt with in our fishing law so - it was a difficult compromise here at the time - that actually only then the one who paid it gets it back paid again. So it's not a cheap thing. If there is something to be done, it is necessary to say what the best form the Chamber of Deputies can choose to achieve that purpose, that is, to clarify the accidents and disasters that have happened to those fishermen. I'm not questioning that at all. Just, and that's why I said and agreed with Zdeněk Ondráček that the two points we have there about the task of the investigation committee are tasks for someone else. So let's see what the Environment Committee can do. I understand that we have an emergency and that we're not going there to see. But we have to deal with what happened. It was rightly said here - the water operators know this well - what lessons we learned from the various accidents, the disasters, the lessons learned after the floods. And Mr Marian Jurečka knows this well as the former Minister of Agriculture, what had to be done today. And that's it, forgive me, 19 years after the big flood in 2002, and to this day we have to deal with the things that we had to deal with then and give some kind of program. And it wasn't the Chamber of Deputies investigation committee. It was a working group from the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies who were sitting here, discussing, having the individual things played out, how the crisis situation was resolved, and in what difficult times it was, the year 2002, when the second year or year and a half, the regional authorities worked. Still, and it was very lucky for the Czech Republic, there were district authorities that disappeared six months later. And I could talk about the head of the District Office in Písek, when I see my colleague Jurečka here, my colleague Kalbáč, then he was a senator for KDU-ČSL, from Strakonice. Those were the people who saved so many lives and so many possessions that I can really pay tribute to them after 19 years because they were in a difficult state of affairs so that they could, first, prevent or at least limit the risks. And then they worked to say how to compensate people who may not have been insured or how to find measures in the future that would prevent and prevent the next imminent damage. And that, in my opinion, is our mission. I will be very happy when the Police of the Czech Republic, inspections, do their job and bring some concrete results. First, who caused it, how much damage it is, and if we find the funds in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget to give those poor fishermen some money. I've been a fisherman since I was eight. The fishers from the lower Bečva will come to me, they'll report back to me on Sunday. I've been communicating with the fishing union for a really long time, and I'm actually reporting a conflict of interest that I'm a fisherman. But that's the reality we have to follow. I am in favour of discussing what body will oversee this, that it is underway, that the Defence Committee may set up a committee or subcommittee which it has set up. He's gonna deal with it to report to him on the investigation, the ones they can do to keep the investigation from happening. Let the Committee on the Environment have it regularly submit a report from the Minister who took place there, and I will agree with that. It's my internal interest to make this right and find the culprit. But please, let's do what the legislator does. [[16.40 hours]] I'm convinced - and I could name, I've really been here long enough to name those committees of inquiry that mattered. Among other things, the one for the IPB, Mr Jurečka, through the President, did not have a great result, therefore, to tell ourselves the truth. But it was such a dramatic act that when we set it up when the file was closed, we really made sure that those people who were there were able to navigate in the banking operations that were going on there, and we condemned all the police and Home Secretary's procedures at the time, that was Stanislav Gross, who had the troublemakers take over the bank. They go to the banks in a suit and a little bag, not a police patrol. So, please, let's find a way to make every House, every committee once every six weeks in our cycle, to keep an eye on the fact that all this is going on so that we all probably want to achieve that goal, I hope so, so that we can achieve it. And then we'll really be the ones who helped find the culprit here, help replace the damage to the fishermen, and fish the beautiful river again. That's what I think is our goal. Maybe somebody else has a goal, make a political case out of it and profit from it. But I have this goal, because as I reported the conflict of interest, I've been a fisherman since I was eight years old.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u53	Thank you and now Mrs Balaštíková in the general debate, Mr Kobza will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u54	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I've wanted to perform several times, because Bečva is about the third time here, and you've always poisoned me so much that I didn't get to it, like the fish in Bečva. On September 20, 2020, I was an environmental councillor and agriculture councillor in the Zlín Region. Of course, the river Bečva fell into my jurisdiction. At 8 a.m., I received a list of companies that couldn't have been in any way - they couldn't have been because they have static measurements, which means that gauges are placed on their discharges, probably owned by the P.I.P., which constantly monitor discharges into public waters. Among them, even if you don't want it, there was, of course, a company called DEZA. I never commented on it here. This information, of course, was also provided by the Governor of the Zlín Region, your colleague for KDU. He never spoke with this information, and I think he didn't do it because it was a few days before the election. The DEZA company didn't fit him in the store, into political play. The movement YES and KDU-ČSL were the two biggest rivals in the Zlín Region. We've been shaken by one big problem, who's in favour of building a hospital and who's not. That Bečva, that was a little extra. He could have said, as a fair governor, it wasn't these companies. He didn't do it, and he asked me not to do it, too. I kept that word. Of course, the first person I contacted was the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Agriculture. I asked them for help, for synergies and, of course, for funds, because this disaster exceeded the possibilities and budget of the Zlín Region. If it was DEZA, then KDU would have blown us apart, because that could have been the outcome of the 2020 election. I'm sorry, and that's the truth. And that it's a political issue, the word DEZA here has been said by a number of colleagues, and I'm very sorry because some of them are mayors, and yet they let themselves be lured into some sort of political PR so that we don't deal with the substance, and we're dealing with this nonsense. I, too, have received the challenge of those citizens. I'm terribly sorry, but it's just that you're constantly politically manipulating your faceboards and trying to beat them up that the culprit doesn't want to show up. I was the one who contacted the police, as it is. Of course, I have been told that I have no right to look into anything or to be informed, but that it is an extensive network and a widespread violation of things that ultimately cost a man's life. I'm afraid life has been taken by the person at least possibly responsible. When I look at your Facebook page, I see how you stand up for helping citizens. But you may well know that this path does not lead to this, and I am sorry that you may be doing this to the mayors of the communities who have been reelected. If you don't know your powers and competences, it's sad and it's a demonstration that you're just players with who's more interesting, and I'm sorry about that, because there were times, even though I'm from another political side, and you touch your conscience - I don't have to, so I supported you when your ideas were for people. The Minister of the Environment, of course, provided synergies, provided finance, as did the Ministry of Agriculture. I regret to say to my colleague Podal that the fishermen were compensated, they received CZK 7.5 million from the Ministry of Agriculture, they were satisfied. If you're talking to individual members, it's not about solving a problem. You may need to talk to professional organizations, which is the Czech Fisheries Union and the Moravian Fisheries Union, their Bureau, and they can tell you what the agreements are and what the drawdown from individual ministries will be. I am also sorry, of course, for my colleague, who was the Emeritus Minister of Agriculture, who might know that the Ministry of Agriculture provided the funds because we talked about this on the Committee on Agriculture. And maybe that's the truth. I wish the culprit was caught, too. I still have a list of companies that can't be because there were static measurements that determined what was going into public waters. So please stop naming individual companies here because it's all about politics, and that's what bothers me the most. I don't often perform here, I always try to be consistent and do the job well. Maybe sometimes I'm difficult because I'm really going to the bottom of things. Be like that, and maybe we'll change citizens' minds about politicians, because that's what it's all about, being consistent and strict with ourselves. And unfortunately, you don't convince me here, and I have to say, I'm sorry, and I have to be ashamed of some of them, because I've respected them, and if they're so easily lured to the glamour that they're gonna be in the papers, that's the saddest thing you can see. What would I say when I hear some of you reading letters here, and, of course, those people are unhappy because they feel like this thing isn't moving. If you want to change that now, let's really call on another working group, change some laws, change these things and help the ministries have the competence to deal with these things. I'm sure there's not gonna be a committee that's gonna handle the investigation because I think even the cops have a problem with that. I can't imagine how some of the colleagues I've just heard here are really gonna have these conversations, because if they didn't even get the job of finding out the basics, how are they gonna figure out the rest? And that's what we should be aware of here. I hope I've said this before, I wish he'd won sanity here. I don't think he's here, but let's leave political PR and do something for people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u55	Thank you. Mr Jurečka will respond with a factual remark. That is the only factual point at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u56	Thank you. I will allow myself to respond to my colleague Balaštíková, through Mr President. I guess you can't really suspect that I have a problem with some lack of media output, and I need to look for some topics here to mediate. Who knows me for a long time knows that I am simply expressing myself on things that make sense, which primarily work or which relate to my expertise in working in two committees of this House. So here it really is, I think, pointless and it brings into the emotion that you have now brought. I don't really care about that. My point is, after six months, we'll be in a situation where, above all, the public - and I consider it a professional public, even the letter signed by those people, the four signatories. These aren't people we could say aren't the professional public and its representatives. If you look at the first signatory who signed it, he's the head of a fishing union in the Hustopae, a college-educated man. You can't say it's someone who doesn't understand, the person does it his whole life. [[16.50 hours]] I don't take the argument you're making about getting a message about the meters that day. But of course I would be interested then in that case, and this is the subject of a debate on the committee of inquiry, what sensitivity the gauges have, what indications they are able to detect, with what error rate. We don't have room to say that in two minutes. And when we talk about these things, let's say in terms of a further shift, of course, or else I would look at these things, if I were to see the close interaction of the ministries that would say on the basis of their experience: We are doing these and these steps that will change access to future similar accidents and we will be able to prevent them, we have on the table concrete changes to legislation based on this fact. But I don't see it either. I don't see the environmental minister coming out here, which I otherwise respect humanly, and he said, "We already have a whole series of things on the table where there has been doubt, and now we can change them by the end of the term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u57	Thank you. The Minister has given me priority rights, but before that I will have to deal with factual points. So Mr Benešík, then Mrs Balaštíková, then Mr Podal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So the former commander of the Zlín Region for KDU-ČSL Jiří Čunek was denied here. I called him in the meantime to ask him what was said here. As I bought, I'm selling: he didn't get any leads, he doesn't know anything. He had most of the information he had from the press monitoring, and he doesn't know about any sensors either. And the interesting thing is that the sensors, they heard about it for the first time, that even DEZA didn't fight the sensors, that what she would do first would say, we have a sensor that clearly disproves it. So when I bought, I sell. Jiří Čunek clearly distanced himself from this and explicitly told me that he never talked to Mrs. Balaštíková about the crash in Bečva.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u59	Thank you and now Mrs Balaštíková with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u60	I signed up for something else, but this, my colleague, is what you got me through Mr President. There's nothing to say about that. I'm sorry if the Governor doesn't remember any conversation about Bečva. Just please call him and ask him if he was communicating with Bečva, and who he was communicating with about giving the Zlín Region 100 000 to the Czech Fisheries Union to cover the death of fish. So if he never talked to me about Bečva, how is it possible that we, as councillors, made that decision? I'm not gonna express myself anymore. It's sad what you've done.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u61	Thank you. Mr Podal now, then Mr Jurečka with factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that I very much appreciate Mrs Balaštíková, through you, and I certainly did not want to upset her. I used this case only as a model for this because I myself experienced several accidents, when we actually cleaned it at our own expense from the money of our organization. And there's one other thing that comes up. If we ever wanted a replacement, when the culprit was found, we had to sue! These were other costs, without the possibility or certainty that we would win at all, pay lawyers and so on. So I used it as a model to do this - if there was a payment, I don't know, it's possible, then I'm sorry in this particular case - but in general, it actually applies, it can be seen that a fish planted in the water, even with the money of a fisherman, becomes ruinous. And when I asked the Minister about it, he said, "Oh, yeah, and how do you know in death which fish was a fisherman and which naturally wiped itself out? Well, of course, you can't find out, but it would be good to think about the compensation in such cases. It's not just about the fish, it's about the job, the moto-hours, they're using their technique, the labor force. So it cost us big money, all these events. That's what I'm talking about, so it doesn't get forgotten, that it's really about the fishers who, like ants, always get on and always help. So I didn't mean to offend, I just wanted to point this out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u63	Thank you. Now with Mr Jurečka's point of fact, then Mr Blaha. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u64	Thank you. I will return the debate to some rational level, and that is precisely the case where it makes sense to discuss these matters on the ground of the committee of inquiry, because we are talking about someone who is not here, it is a claim against the claim. I hear it, what my colleague Balaštíková said, for the first time today, she's getting this information. It would be great if maybe she was able to forward the information to us. I would very much like to look at the information about the sensors, how many were there, where they were distributed, what values they measured that day. I'm really gonna be happy about it, and I don't mean it ironically. I'm just saying it in a normal way, in a matter of fact. And then it's also good to talk about the discussions, when they mention that the damage has been paid, money has been sent. I don't know-- has anyone figured that out yet? Is there any qualified estimate of the valuer who estimated the damage caused on the Bečva river and the cost of its elimination? I didn't notice it, I don't know about it. If it's any new information that CZK 7.5 million equals a shame, I don't think it is. I suppose there's still work to be done to quantify the damage, including the costs associated with it. So please, let's not give this to the public, like some of the fishing organizations have already gotten some money. There's a paradox that it's always saved by the Department of Agriculture, this mess, whether it's starting with the cormorant and others, even if it should go properly to the Ministry of the Environment, but that's a different debate. We're not pulling that around here. But let's not create the illusion that money has been sent somewhere, that the problem is solved and the damage is replaced. It's not. As a story of fishing 40 kilometers of the river Bečva will not solve CZK 7.5 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u65	Thank you. Now Mr Blaha, then Mr Benešík, then Mrs Balaštíková. We would have exhausted the factual points at this point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will respond to Mrs Balaštíková. I am convinced that I hear the debates here that, on the contrary, the setting up of an investigation committee makes sense, because there are a number of new questions that have not been on the table until now, and I think it is important to talk about the matter and put all the information in some context so that we can get closer to some truth. The most common argument of all those who oppose the setting up of a committee of inquiry is that the committee will not investigate anything anyway. What if I do? What if you're wrong? Why don't you give it a chance? You're not risking anything. Let's support it. And if the committee doesn't investigate anything, we can say yes, you were right. But you're not risking anything if you support the establishment and the committee starts working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u67	Thank you. Now, Mr Benešík, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u68	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to stress that I have reproduced, I hope relatively precisely, what Jiří Čunek said, who is not here and cannot perform, because of course it affects the whole KDU-ČSL. With the fact that - now it is my point - that the board approved aid to fishermen of some amount, it certainly does not confirm that Jiří Čunek and his councilwoman had to talk about it. I don't think it's that the relationship doesn't have to be there. And I think he also told me that the procedure of the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region in the case of the poisoning of Bečva was verified and the current councillor of the Zlín Region - KDU-ČSL is currently in opposition, so the councillor has not - they stated at the meeting of the council that the process of the region in this matter was flawless. So there is definitely no doubt about the past leadership of the region, and I am very pleased that we are discussing this matter and are discussing whether we will set up a committee of inquiry. There's also a proposal that we could set up a task force. That is, I think, a very substantive debate and I am very glad that, unlike whether we grant a graduation to children or students or not, we do not decide on the basis of an Instagram poll.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u69	Thank you. Now Mrs Balaštíková, then Mr Elfmark and Mrs Fialová came forward. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u70	I didn't say what I was supposed to say. However, if you really want to help Bečva and those people, set up a working group, invite the ministers, because these are questions for them. I'm not gonna discuss whether or not an estimate like that. Then I'd still be accused that I, for God's sake, was working on that estimate, and how I ended up with fur farms... So please ask those involved. Set up a group, work on it, because the only way, please, is by law. I don't think the investigation committee will solve this. If you have a task force to do that, I'd be happy to support it, but not that version. And, Mr. Benešík, I thought you were a different education. You seem like a lawyer to me because you always want to mess things up like this. I didn't exactly say that. And to you, my colleague, through Mr President, please, these are the information that I received at the time as councillor from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment, and I have worked with them. [[Jurečka]] I certainly was not involved in any distribution, but I had information on how the various ministries would deal with this accident, how they would deal with it, and from both ministers, I had an opinion that they had agreed which ministry to pay for this accident. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u71	Thank you. Let me remind you that we should address ourselves here through me. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Elfmark. Mrs. Fialová has downloaded it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u72	Thank you for the floor. I wanted, through Mr President, to Mrs Balaštíková. You, when the case arose, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, personally as an environmental councilman and agriculture, went to the scene and wondered how you were yelling at us, how you were all there for what she did, so I'm sure you were there, you found out everything, you investigated, you knew, you had your opinion. In general, you've handled the case for sure, haven't you? I've been in communication with engineer Stanislav Pernický, and I'm supposed to tell you through this counter that he certainly doesn't feel like he's being manipulated by a poor man and that he's certainly not being manipulated. And so did all the people who are signed under that letter came to everyone. Vice-President Filip mentioned here that the environmental committee that I am a member of is doing nothing. I'd just like to say that we had a round table on the committee on the 11th, the minister will be sure to confirm that. We spent x hours on it. On February 3rd, we included a point on the environmental committee where we deal with these things, and in my speech I remembered that on February 17th, the Minister will also confirm that, we will also deal with this point. So these things are being dealt with through the committee. But if we had somehow moved on from the 29th, we didn't have to spend any time here today, it could have been settled a long time ago. You mentioned a working group here. Long ago, the Minister, if he's so interested in making it all happen, he can set it up or in some way help us with it. What we always learned on the committee was basically nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u73	Thank you. Now Mr Blaha with a factual remark, then Mrs Balaštíková, then Mr Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u74	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want to drag this debate out much longer, but there was talk of damage. The Czech Fishermen's Union has calculated the damage. It consists of damage to individual organizations. Direct damage to fish is $24 million. Indirect damage to fish, that means destruction in the rendering plant, 469 000, and indirect damage to fish consisting of the destruction of 442 000. The sum of almost 25 million crowns - 24 911 555 crowns. So if we're talking about some 7 million, it's just a drop in the sea.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u75	Thank you. Now Mrs Balaštíková with a point of fact, then Mr Výborný. That would be the last one at the moment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u76	I will only say to my colleagues through you, Mr President: even my successor for the Pirate Party did not find that I, as an environmental and agricultural councillor, was in error. Of course I've been dealing with these things. I think I made one big mistake, I don't write about it on Facebook, I don't write about it in the paper. I don't do that. It's probably my big mistake, 'cause when I pick up somebody's paper, I don't report it right away. And as they're talking about the damage, please, it's questions for the ministers, not me. As soon as I received the information, I tried to pass it on to you here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u77	Thank you. And now, Mr Výborný, at this point in time, the final point in fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, colleagues, I would like to ask very much - although I am a Member from the Pardubice Region, but of course I have the same interest as all the other mega jumps that happened with Bečva. But please don't let this House subpoena the role of the investigation committee. Through the Vice-President to the Member: please, nicely, I think you're an amazing candidate for a member of that committee of inquiry. Obviously, from what you've said, you'll be one of the first ones you'll be heard to present, and I'm saying this completely honestly so that you can do all the things you've said here. I think there's no point in blaming anyone who writes or doesn't write on social media. Please, let us move this debate that we are having here, and it concerns everyone, Madame, to the committee of inquiry. I look forward to your support. It's obvious that you're interested in this thing being investigated. But please, let's move on. I don't think this is really worth the other 480 points, or how many we have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u79	Thank you. Mrs Balaštíková, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u80	Through Mr President, I certainly do not want to be a member of any such committee, but you do not understand that you want this committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u81	Thank you. At this point, I'd like to invite Minister Brabec with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u82	Thank you. I, my colleagues, my colleagues... As the classic says, I have something to say, and I'm gonna say it. First of all, if it were really interested in dividing it into two things that, in my opinion, are very different. That means looking for some criminal liability, and that's really a matter for the police and prosecutors. I'm saying again, it's been dropped, it's a live case, and it's actually the biggest precedent we'd ever make here to set up an investigation committee to run a live case. That's the first thing. The second thing, and here I have to say, is that I am disappointed by my colleague, Elfmark - although otherwise I think we communicate very well - because he is not telling the truth. And a whole lot of you, I'm sorry, haven't always been telling the truth about this, or things taken out of context. Because it is not true - and my colleague, Elfmark, actually, denied himself a little, because he said how many times the Committee on the Environment dealt with it. Yeah, I've been to that committee, and I'll always come by if I'm invited, and I've been on those previous committees, and I've been saying what kind of legislation we're prepared to change. We have a change of water law. We have an amendment to the Water Law. That's what I've been briefing you on. We have a whole range of other activities that we do. That's what I've been briefing you on. And that is precisely the matter of the Committee on the Environment or any expert team. But with all due respect, folks, it's not a matter of the commission of inquiry to deal with a change in legislation. Are we going to do a law change on every case, every crash, or anything, through the investigation committee? It's a matter of committees, it's a matter of seminars, special teams, right on top of that. But the committee of inquiry is something else. That means both of these targets... I don't think the investigation committee is going anywhere else. One wants to replace the police and the prosecutor's office in a running case, and I say again: I guess I have nothing to add to what Mr. Ondráček said in the matter of expertise, because he is a former investigator. And the second thing is that we're talking about expertise, which means changes in legislation. And I say you're right about the fact that a number of aspects of this great disaster that have occurred there have shown that water law and synergies are simply not perfect. That's right. And we also took it into account and prepared an amendment to the water law. And a whole bunch of other things. Measurement of water on Bečva, stable, which should soon be installed. A few weeks ago we started an ad hoc measurement on Bečva without any warning in advance, which means unannounced measurements of water quality. That's what the Research Institute of Water Economics does. We're updating the list of discharges through the Moravia basin. There's a whole bunch of things that run. And then I hear here that I haven't informed or that I don't know anything at all. That's just not true. [[17.10 hours]] Next thing. I'm sorry, I'm sorry about the personal attacks. Yeah, opposition, coalition. But, Mr Blaha, by your means, Mr President, if you think the former director of the chemical plant is tearing flies and suffocating animals, please apologize. I just looked, with all due respect, into your résumé, you're an engineer, and you have a hobby that you like to sit with your family or friends. I graduated from the Faculty of Science of Charles University, and since I was six years old, I've been sitting by the water, I've been sitting by the water since I was a child, I'm an active fisherman. And, yes, I'm terribly sorry about the fishermen there, just what happened there, because I'm looking at it like a fisherman. And I'm a passionate mushroom man, that's what's known about me from my Facebook page, so I spend my whole life in nature. I'm sure you are, too, but please don't tell me I don't have any relation to the environment or nature just because I ran a chemist at some stage of my life. I hope we agree that's not fair. That's not fair. If you have any clear evidence that I've done something wrong, please say it or say it, but it doesn't seem fair to me to judge a person from working somewhere. Ask the people in Lovosice when I worked there, how I took care of the environment or just the neighborhood. I don't think you're gonna know anything wrong. I hope the vast majority of the things that may have been done at the resort say so, I hope so, but I shouldn't say that, but someone else, but I'm sorry about the personal attacks. We may have a different political opinion, but, please, this really doesn't seem fair. There's one thing I want to tell you. I know that maybe you don't have to believe me. Colleagues, colleagues, I would be happiest if what I really thought at that time would be resolved within hours or days, because the information at that time was such that there was really something measured. I'm most unhappy today that this is how it goes, most angry that the terms just shift - even from an expert. On the other hand, I understand and I have to respect and respect that there is an investigation here, and because I went into some of the cases that have been, and some of the others have been mentioned here, I have actually found that some of the expert reports have been made for more than four months or five months, that maybe even a year has been done. And, for God's sake, that's not some kind of expert guide. I was so looking forward to knowing by the end of December, and the police were going to act. By the end of February, I was already nervous, and now, of course, it bothers me very much, which we can totally agree on. This must be the place to fall, 'cause this just can't stay unsolved. That's what's bothering these people. I don't blame these fishermen at all, and I say again that I understand them humanly, because I'm actually saying again that I may be, forty-eight years an active fisherman, even though I've had that permit since I was ten years old, we were just texting fishermen. Guess who the fishermen came to when they didn't get what they wanted? Follow me. But it's not just about Mr. Pernický, there are other people here. This is Mr. Trybuček, director of the Moravian-Silesian fishing union, management of the fishing union. I have spoken to them many times, and I also helped them when they came to me and said, "Our regions have promised to help us to cover the rendering plant, we have not received anything." So I called the captains or those people I know in those regions now after the election, and I begged them to keep the promise, because we had it clearly divided: the Ministry of Agriculture will give money to fish, because the Ministry of the Environment cannot do it - Marian Jurečka should know this well as a former minister - of course, the Ministry of Agriculture has a river basin in its management, which means that it is closer to that than the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Environment will pay for the study we paid, the river's condition is made, it was done by various academic workplaces, the Moravia basin, it was all paid by us and we will pay through the agency, which clearly confirmed, weighing that Bečva is not a dead river. There was a disaster, of course tens of tons of fish died there, that's clear and indisputable, and it's a disaster, but it's not a dead river, thank God it's not a dead river. This has been confirmed by studies in terms of macrobentos and condition and so on, I don't want to go into details. This means clearly on legislative matters, and we know how, let us say, the communication between the authorities between the regions has been put there, after all, Mr Blaha is a representative of the Zlín Region, so he can also look there. He investigates the region, investigates the regional office, both in Deza and in Tesla Rožnov, completely independently. He's investigating the police, he's investigating the environmental inspection and the other things, and we're changing the legislation, so I'm saying again, "We want to get these things straight to the end, and the sooner the better. It annoys me the most, and that is a decent word, I will not be rude here in this Chamber, that it goes like this, but I understand the police - they want to have enough evidence to succeed, because it will clearly be a matter that ends in court, and naturally a possible culprit who will be charged and then maybe charged will defend himself, there will be a need for clear evidence. And that's something that's really public interest in getting an expert to do his job well and give the police enough arguments. This means that we are in complete agreement here that it should be done as soon as possible to calm the public, and, of course, fishermen clearly have our full support to partially compensate for the damage. The money didn't just happen, it came from negotiations with the fishing union, active negotiations with specific people in the fishing union, nobody's burying anything under the rug. I can swear that to you again to the health of everyone or anything that is close to me or anything that is dear to me, to the health of my loved ones, just nobody burys anything under the carpet, they would never dare. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u83	Thank you. There are factual points. First Mr Benešík, then Mr Blaha, then Mr Jurečka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u84	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want us to get along. Of course, I agree that the commission of inquiry does not - nor can - change, regulate legislation. This, of course, is done by the Chamber of Deputies through or in cooperation with its committees. But it is the conclusions of such a commission of inquiry that should or could be used, among other things, to propose measures that prevent similar accidents, similar disasters, or at least minimise them, which, of course, can also mean changes or amendments to legislation. So I'm not saying here that the committee of inquiry is supposed to change legislation, no way. She's supposed to come up with some conclusions, and those conclusions can be used, among other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u85	Thank you. And now, Mr Blaha, at this moment, the last factual point, rather the only one. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u86	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just for a little while. Of course, I was also based on publicly available data and the fact that you are a fisherman and that you like to mushroom, I might learn that somewhere on social networks, but you did not become the Minister of the Environment in principle. Your last assignment was in Lovochemie, part of the Agrofert Group, and that's probably why you got into the YES candidate, and that's nothing personal. It's just a job with public data and the way you found my hobbies and hobbies, if you were drawing from another publicly available source, you'd know that I'm a fisherman, too, and maybe I like to ride a bike and ski, but that's not important. The chaos is simply caused by the statements made by the various representatives of the institutions. Once the police say something, an embargo is imposed, an embargo is not imposed, then an expert is unfolding. These are just all things that are at least worth taking care of. So if we're all after the same thing, and it's actually coming out of everyone's mouths, let's make it possible, let's create that committee and then let's let it work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u87	Thank you. Now, Mr Kobza, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u88	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, Minister, a lot has been said, either to the point or not to the point. As a geologist who's been dealing with water for years, I'd go back to the merita thing and maybe go back to the water off the fish, because the water is still the most valuable thing we have here. [[17.20 hours]] We should first of all look for lessons from what happened at Bečva, but not only at Bečva, because when I received the first news of the disaster in Bečva, I could not remember the negotiations I conducted at the Ministry of Agriculture when the Constitutional Law on Water Protection was in place, where I stressed that water must be protected not only from natural disasters but also from human intervention, from evil intentions. Of course, looking back on time, I realize how many such disasters we could have had here, for example, if there were permission to mine gold, whether on the Mokra or in the Kašperské hory, because, of course, the disaster that was in Romania on Baia Mare, where the barrier of reaction ponds with cyanides broke and poisoned Tisa 200 kilometers to the last tadpole, so, of course, it is the most vicious case of how human negligence, human arrogance and I would say recklessness can really commit major disasters. The issue of water safety in our country is therefore of completely different importance. It is a strategic raw material, it is one of the most important things in terms of our security, national security, state security. We should also look for this lesson in how we enable authorities in charge of both water protection and investigations of possible pollution, disasters, how to enable them to work better, more flexible, intensively and at the same time to look for tools to motivate them not to neglect anything. So let's look at the broader context with Bečva in the whole case because, as I say, Bečva is a case that can happen on any river, on any water stream, whether it's an important source of drinking water or industrial waters. Let's look for a system of how we can improve it, how we can make it far more efficient and faster, because I think that is also what my colleague Ondráček was talking about in part, that we are not here to interfere with the police. We should help her, we should help her so that she really has sufficient motivation and authority to function effectively and flexibly. Like I said, too much has been said, I don't want to drag it out, because the discussion just kind of went in a different direction. But let's not forget in the discussion about fish that this is water, what it is, that it is water that we must protect what we stand for, because, after all, on the activities of foreign groups that use water resources here to the fullest, and their expansive profits that they have from it are sending abroad, it is clear that they are not only aware of the importance and weight of the economic, but also of the social and strategic ones. So please, let's protect the water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u89	Thank you. Now, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and then, if necessary, Mr Feranec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madame Members, Mr Minister, Mr Kobza, my esteemed previous speaker, has inspired me. I add to this claim that water is life and life, i.e. water, we must protect. We should also look at the subject we are discussing with this point of view, and this is an ecological accident on the Bečva river. At the beginning of this discussion, we heard a very emotional speech here. I could also be very emotional because I grew up at the Bečva River and I could remember many beautiful moments as well as how at one point Bečva stopped being clean, could not bathe in it, how it was restored after the 1990s, and today it is a beautiful river again - or it was until the disaster, but I am glad to hear that it did not even become a dead river after the horrible environmental accident, but that the river lives. However, there is a need for real attention to this matter. I have to say that I am very, very sorry about what happened, and I am even more sorry that it takes so long to clarify the matter, to shine the light so that it is not only obvious who is responsible, but mainly what to do to prevent similar accidents. I am following the matter directly from the Zlín Region, where I regularly attend the meeting of the Zlín Region Council. This situation in Bečva was also an inspiration and an impulse for us to restore the environmental department in the Zlín Region. Until now, he was a part of - or in the past period he was a part of - the zoning department, and we are pleased that at this moment he is again a separate environmental department, which will still have more space and more support to deal with environmental protection. The current information from the Zlín Region is therefore that there are now time limits for comments on the control of integrated permits under the Water Law, that the matter is not yet concluded and cannot be done. But what we know at this point also shows that it would be necessary for more flexible responses to actually prepare legislation to support prevention for possible crises, whether natural disasters, environmental accidents or similar crises. There's only when you're talking to those people who were there right away, so you need to give them great admiration for what they did and how they worked, but on the other hand, they did it with their hearts on their palms, with great conviction, with great enthusiasm, but there were no rules. They actually worked as best they could, and deep admiration for all those people who were there at the time, but it can't work that way. Indeed, it is necessary for such crises to be dealt with, I will say it in layman's terms, to have tasks clearly dealt with, and those people must be prepared for that. That is why, in turn, we have put our intention to check and restore all the crisis management strategies that are needed in the Zlín Region Council's programming declaration. I may add again to the situation - I will say again, I will underline - that the Ministry of Agriculture responded very quickly, responded immediately by providing the money for the fishing, so I could say at the beginning of my speech that at this point the Bečva River is alive again, although it will probably take a while before it completely returns to the condition in which the river was. The funds for these bailouts have already been provided by the Zlín Region and will certainly still be provided. [[17.30 hours]] Finally, I would just like to say that the whole thing really needs to be lit up, and that is what the Chamber of Deputies can do. And if there's anything we can do, basically, at this point, we have to do it. It may be a committee, it may be a working group, but I believe it will be useful for the Chamber of Deputies to continue to deal with this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u91	A nice evening, ladies and gentlemen, another Mr Milan Feranec will speak in the general debate, so far the last one entered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief. I would like to return to the material, that is to say, the motion for a resolution. He's already said a colleague named Ondráček here, asking some questions. I have listened to the debate, I have not heard the answers, so I would like to ask the representatives of the translators, through Mr President, about three specific questions on this resolution. Do you really insist on adopting a resolution where the Chamber of Deputies requires the commission of inquiry to gather all the documents for the environmental disaster, in other words, do we really want to impose on them to take the file of a lively case from the Police of the Czech Republic? That's the first question. Do you really insist that we, as the House, impose a commission of inquiry to investigate the evidence obtained and establish any criminal liability? Really, shouldn't this be done by law enforcement agencies? And do we really want the committee of inquiry to assess the accuracy of the procedures of the State authorities concerned and of other persons, their possible procedural errors or laxity? Of course, the House is a sovereign, it can do anything, but in order to carry out these tasks, or the commission, we should probably adopt some other part of the resolution, I will now say as an example: the point "The further investigation into the case of the environmental disaster in Bečva is fully taken over by the commission of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." And another point: "For the purposes of this investigation, the effectiveness of the Criminal Code, the Police Act of the Czech Republic and the Civil Service Act is suspended." Please consider this proposal as an ad absurdum argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u93	Thank you. Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Since this is a very serious and complex material and my colleague Feranec has raised a lot of fundamental questions here, I would like to ask for a brief recess for a meeting of our club by 6:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u95	Thank you. I am interrupting the meeting until 6:00 p.m., where we will discuss a fixed item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-007-467.u96	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 6:00 p.m. and we will be discussing a fixed point.
