ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u1	531. End of liquidation of the Czech retail trade I ask that the appellant of this paragraph, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, take the floor, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for allowing me to present this point here and, at the same time, I will try to outline what it is. The point is that we have joined forces here in this House adopted the pandemic law and this law in § 2 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (b) the limitation of the activities of a commercial or manufacturing establishment or the operation of a commercial centre or the establishment of conditions for their operation. The word restriction is essential - the restriction is not a ban. In paragraph 59 of the order of the Supreme Administrative Court, which came out yesterday, which annulled the measure from about Sunday or Monday, I do not know how the Ministry took it, in any event in this judgment, it is stated in this decision that in this context it is appropriate to point out that if the measure under review sets out the conditions for the meeting, it lacks logic when it comes to saying "limiting'. The pandemic law clearly distinguishes between the concepts of prohibition, restriction and setting of conditions, and therefore it is essential to comply with this terminology even in emergency measures issued on the basis of it. Otherwise, they will be very difficult for their addressees to understand, as has happened in the present case. The objector cannot freely confuse the concepts used by the pandemic law, especially the use and confusion of terms in a situation in which conditions can be laid down for the holding of an event, but it is no longer possible to restrict or prohibit it. It is not permissible for the defendant to circumvent the absence of authorisation to grant restrictions or ban certain activities by establishing conditions which result in the impossibility of carrying out the activity in question, such as the fact that he will effectively prohibit the pursuit of the business in the form of the provision of services to the public by completely prohibiting the public from being present at the premises or for which he prescribes impossible conditions. In other words, the Supreme Administrative Court has clearly stated that it is not possible to prohibit retail in the way that the government has taken action, that is simply illegal. It's not in accordance with the pandemic law. And I'm asking you to bring this into line so that you can really open up those stores because you're closing them illegally. In my opinion, the ministers should be given material responsibility for this illegal conduct, if they consciously proceed to this next week, because this is not possible for you to cause billions of damage here in a conscious process contrary to the law and you have not taken any responsibility for it. I submit the following resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Notes that the retail sector has been and remains closed for the longest time throughout Europe, resulting in its de facto liquidation; II. points out that the current conclusion of the retail trade is unlawful and does not correspond to the wording of the pandemic law; III. Calls on the Government to open retail and most services immediately, with the operation of retail and services linked to a set of rational operational anti-epidemic measures; IV. asks the Government to increase compensation for entrepreneurs in such a way as to avoid the liquidation of otherwise healthy companies as a result of government measures.' At the same time, I call for this resolution to be voted after points. And I'm gonna stop by the justification a little bit more. One thing, of course, is that the government is obviously acting illegally and is out of control. The government doesn't have any competence to close the deal, the government doesn't, it just made it up, the courts are shutting it down, and they're just counting on these sentences to last a while, so they're gonna be able to maintain this illegal state. But that's awfully short-sighted, and it's gonna cost us a huge amount of money in arbitration and compensation, and it's gonna overwhelm the courts completely senselessly, and it's a stupid position. Secondly, the argument that we can't open business because of an epidemic, in my opinion, is absolutely not going to stand up at this point. What's really going on? First of all, the operation of these services is realistic, without any sanitary measures. As a result of the fact that the services and shops are banned across the board, of course, the moment they open it in a corner doesn't solve whether it has a respirator or not. Their problem at that point is completely different than following antiepidemic measures. So it actually makes things worse in a number of cases. The second thing is that the Czech Post, another delivery service, is being flooded in a completely senseless way. There's a lot of movement going on with people trying to pick up the shipments, and there's a massive circumvention of the rules. The result of this whole government measure is that, unfortunately, the honest people who follow the rules get caught up in it and are economically liquidated, and everyone who goes around it often has nothing left to do with it. For this reason, I propose to abolish this government measure and open the retail trade no later than Monday. Thank you for your attention and support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u3	The Vice-President of the SPD Radek Rozvoral will now perform with priority rights and will prepare the Minister of Industry Karel Havlíček with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present here the SPD's opinion on this point. The development of pandemics and nonsensical area bans during the emergency period resulted in the gradual decline and collapse of a lot of businessmen and companies. Government programmes such as Antivirus have far from covering and still do not cover losses and compensation for all businessmen and entrepreneurs, while more than 300 000 workers are still missing in our labour market. We believe that maintaining existing jobs is not only a better one, but mainly a cheaper option for the state than letting companies go bankrupt and then creating new jobs or paying support from the employment offices. On the other hand, the government should have long since approved the so-called cursarbeit and implemented retraining programmes with those for which it is already clear that their original jobs will not be renewed. The SPD movement has long advocated support for employees and companies affected by government measures in order to maintain maximum jobs so as not to be discharged. At the same time, we are prepared to discuss the so-called cursarbeit in the House on specific parameters of this law with the aim of maximum support for workers. Now I would like to read one item in the resolution for the SPD movement, which would read: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure that retail and services, including gastronomics, are opened immediately only in the course of basic measures." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u5	Now with priority rights Minister of Industry Karel Havlíček. Mr Ferjenčík, are you in the general debate? So that's not the case anymore, and then Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared. Now, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have today looked at the Twitter pirát President Bartoš, who said that Mr Ferjenčík was able to push a point to discuss the immediate release of retail trade. And I was interested in one sentence in his tweet -- "Wish us luck and thanks to Miki." Well, we're good for the pirát, we're good for Miki, too. [[12.10 hours]] But most importantly, let's keep our fingers crossed to get out of this, because we're far from out of the epidemic. Despite all this, I am convinced that perhaps there is no one in the House who would not want the rest of the retail outlets to open up as soon as possible. I say the rest of the retail trades - they are 24 per cent of the premises and 18 per cent of the premises from the point of view of the number of customers. There is no doubt about it, and it is true that it must be frustrating for retail - and not only retail - but also closed services that still cannot work today. There is no doubt that this is a completely unprecedented measure that has never been historically here, and it is also true that not everything we have always done has been right. On the other hand, we are in a situation where it looks like we have one foot to get out of this. And why have we almost gotten out of this, though I say again, are we on the ground? Because we're doing a good job of vaccinating. Thank God, the vaccines are coming, the capacities are ready, and I'm sure you're watching the numbers grow. For another, we started the field testing a few weeks ago and it certainly was the right step, we are today the country that tests the most in Europe in per capita conversion. Austria is still testing a lot and there is a lot of it through children, but it brings its clear results. Also that certain rules have been set, especially in recent months or rather weeks, which, fortunately, has worked. I think we are all happy that the numbers are falling and that it has proved that the restrictions, however unpleasant and we must apologize for them, however uncomfortable they are for customers, for entrepreneurs, for residents, whether in terms of the movement of persons, in terms of the operation of business premises, or in terms of the purchase of the necessary goods, it brings results. The numbers are clear. And that's not my argument right now, not even an extra political one. I think it's enough to talk about it, for example, with the Meses Group, which I myself have not always agreed with, sometimes we also have a dispute, but they are people I respect, they are people I trust, they are people who go about it from their professional point of view in a fair, selfless way, and thanks to these people we are getting out of it. I say that because we respect their opinions. 10 million people, 10 million epidemiologists, every other opinion. And it is okay, because logically everyone can comment on this, just like President Bartoš, as well as Mr Ferjenčík, and it is necessary to accept these views, but that does not mean that we have to follow them completely, because we have to decide whether epidemiologists will determine the epidemiological situation for us or whether politicians or anyone else will determine it. I'm interrogating them to be epidemiologists. We can discuss more or less whether it has taken more action of the type of county lockdown or re-closed some other establishment, or whether we have just started to follow the hygiene rules a little bit more, because I believe that everyone realized about a month and a half ago that the situation is really serious and that if we don't follow it - and I say again, however uncomfortable they are - we just won't get out of it. We can talk about what anyone in the world has done better or worse, whether it has worked more to close schools or more to close shops or industry or anything else. There are dozens of different studies, and now I'm not saying B studies, I mean really good institutions that publish them. I've read many of them, either from the Kochův Institute or from the American CDC or Science magazine and so on. Everyone has a slightly different view of it, but basically, they all agree on one thing that actually works - although I recognize that this is to a large extent a treatment for hard chemotherapy - is a reduction in mobility. And we can discuss whether in the store Or service B, or at C or school, it's a place to spread an epidemic better or worse. In any case, the largely isolation of the economy, sport, culture and so on follows primarily the reduction in people's mobility. That's why business had to close, unfortunately. And you can see that they didn't just close in the Czech Republic, they closed in virtually every country in Europe. But I agree with Mr Ferjenčík on one thing - they are gradually released, that is true, consent. As those countries get out of this, God bless them, including us, so some business and services are gradually starting to loosen up. I'm sure you know that yesterday in the government, we decided that our business, the rest of it, will be freed up, the 24 percent of the business, from 3:00 p.m. Monday a week. But I am still returning to this without being an epidemiologist, but because I am in contact with those teams of those epidemiological groups de facto daily and I hear their arguments - and I must say that sometimes my arguments are not entirely different from what Mr Ferjenčík said, because logically I defend - or clearly defend - the interests of the economic branch, and I would also like it to be opened. On the other hand, I am also Vice-President of the Government, and I have to accept the arguments that balance even my point of view. And the arguments are clear. Let's not watch as much as this little store gets carried over more or less, but if 109,000 retailers go out, then at that point it means a few million people in the streets, increased mobility. And that's the problem. Because these people meet on the subway, these people meet at the tram stop, these people meet in parking lots, these people meet in different organizations, shops, and so on. And he's probably not just going to trade A, but he's also going to stop at B - and that's unfortunately the problem. Because if you look at what was the reason we got out of it in the last month - and again, I say we're still halfway - it was just that we finally managed to reduce mobility somewhere to 50 percent. And once again, we can talk about whether it was given more restrictions on one or the other, but that's what reduced mobility has helped. But what does that really mean? If we don't want to fall back into this, and if we don't want to close in a month, which we're dealing with in Germany today... I was talking to the German Minister of Economics last week, who is frustrated. Maybe the first time he told me he was congratulating us on something. I was quite glad, because I can quite see that the numbers are coming down. And he said, "I congratulate you on getting up to this number, but at the same time he said, "I'm frustrated with the way things are going with us, because it's growing by 30 percent a week, and we've done everything we can - no one's questioning Germany that it's doing it wrong - so it doesn't happen. And at that time they had 31,000, 32,000. I've been looking and it's still moving around the 30,000 plus, minus. And now it's not, please nicely, that we compare each other, that we say we're better or worse. No way. We don't wish it on any of our neighbors, but the fact is, it's growing, and they're considering what other restrictions they're going to do. We can look in Poland where it is similar, in Hungary and so on. So we don't want it to happen. Perhaps we can agree that the worst thing that would be - and the entrepreneurs are telling me this today and every day, including the traders - just don't let it close again in three weeks. That's a better week or 14 days to last if we're more likely to give it up and we can all handle it. So please, let's not ruin it. It really isn't about politics right now, it's not about ideology, it's not about who's gonna be the bigger hero and who's gonna be able to push for it on Monday. It's about the epidemiologists agreeing that the situation is improving. The incidence today is 171, yesterday it was 177, two days ago 184, last week it was 400. The line that's set, fair to me, but I'm not an epidemiologist, is 100. If we hold it together and it goes at this rate, there's a chance we're gonna get the third one on that hundred. Moreover, we said that it was Oriental, so that we wouldn't take the floor - even the epidemiologists said that if we were to 105, 107 and saw the trend, it would open on Monday 3rd. And I think it's a fair time and I think it can be done. And if we hold out, we'll have a better chance of getting through this. Because let us realise that this is not only, Mr. Ferjenčík, about retail. It's just that we want to put on a few more services, at least the very important ones, that's body services, whether it's a pedicure for older people who are writing to us, and I'm sure you too, whether they're hairdressers, which is a psychological issue, masseurs, which is part of a health issue, and similar services. [[12.20 hours]] But be careful, we said, and again I believe that we all agree that schools have priority. But if we start taking it through mobility, it's not the least. Only last week it was 450,000 children, on Monday there are hundreds of thousands of other children, and the next week we said that there will also be other children, specifically for second grade rotation lessons. When we throw in retail, when we throw in services and in general, when we add that these kids don't go alone, but parents, grandparents, and so on, it's already increased mobility. Again, I'm not just saying this from my point of view, I'm saying what the epidemiologists are saying, let's be reasonable and not overheat it. And it's nothing about wishing businessmen didn't open up. It is difficult to assess whether the retail segment, school or simply some important service such as a pedicure for older people is more important. Everyone sees this from their point of view, and I dare not say what is or is not more important, but in general we agreed that schools should have a certain priority. Well, that's why we did it like that. What are the parameters to open it in a week? We're talking, we're talking, we're not talking about a week, we're talking about five days, because Saturday's gonna be closed anyway. And to a large extent, we were a little worried about that so that even more people wouldn't rush in on Friday, and every day in this, however smiling it may seem, it plays its part. Now to the Supreme Administrative Court. You're wrong here, but I'm not saying 100%. First, the administrative court actually cancelled the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health from 10 yesterday's judgment. 4. and the Court ruled for procedural reasons, and I argue, only for procedural reasons, because it concluded that it was not - and this is important - a danger of delay and did not suffice the subsequent Government's approval within 48 hours. Yes, that's right. This means, according to the pandemic law, health care issues extraordinary measures, and that is true, following the prior approval of the government. However, if there is a danger of delay, and even the Ministry of Health is entitled to issue emergency measures without the prior approval of the government, the government may either give consent within 48 hours or the measure will logically expire. And now we can have fun if that's the case or not. We have the pandemic law for the first time, we are under enormous pressure, among other things, the pandemic group, the advisors - Mr Levínský, Mr Kulveit, Mr Smejkal and so on. You're all communicating with them, you're all taking their opinions, you're all serving them beautifully here, but if they give us advice and we do that, you're surprised we did. Okay. So we justified this measure, or health care, that there was a danger, because at this time, and even the day before the release, there was information about the suspected presence of a Brazilian mutation. Today you can smile and say, See, you were wrong, Brazilian mutation didn't work. Yes, that's exactly what we were talking about with the British mutation, that's what we were talking about with the South African mutation, and unfortunately, the British one worked. We all know the result. Everything changed throughout Europe thanks to British mutation. Well, don't be surprised that we're scared of Brazilian mutations showing up here, even then the reaction was that schools didn't open up, if you remember, in the region. But we respect that the Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court has not taken this into account. Yes, that is the reality, so the judicial review under the pandemic law is one-stage, cannot be appealed against. Yes, of course we do, we do. We may understand less, but we respect. However, the court expressed in particular the restriction of mass actions and stated there that such a restriction is possible, but that the term of the action should be interpreted in a sense as organized activity and so on, and you must have read this and that is what you basically said. What are we really saying here? That the Supreme Administrative Court didn't do business at all and didn't do services at all. The Court of First Instance did not in any way examine the restriction on the retail sale of goods or the provision of services. The only sentence the judgment contains is a side note of the court, which the decision really doesn't stand for. It's a note from a Senate of the Supreme Administrative Court. So, in our view, the duration of restrictions on retail sales and services is not contrary to the judgment of the court, because that remark is not a statement of the court, nor is it one of the grounds for the court's decision. But what else? Now we can talk about this and talk about whether or not it is, and whether or not the five days are good or not, and whether or not it's gonna last or not. In any case, the government adopted a resolution today. On Monday, they will approve new rules, which is exactly the fourth or fifth day for retail sales of goods with efficiency, as I said, on May 3rd. That means we're gonna keep the deadline, we're gonna respect it. On Monday, he will give definitive regime measures to open up to this 3rd, and he will proceed to the absolute release of retail, of course under certain regime measures, but I think that nobody has even questioned or questioned. Maybe one more interesting thing, and that's not because I want to stretch it out, but it's good to always remember how we are about retail. I must say that, despite the period that was really critical in 2020, retail did not end up being the worst. Of course, but I always have to say "but." Overall, retail fell plus minus as in 2019, about 0.7 percent worse, which is considerably better than industry, better than construction, better than other fields, but - and it is important to say, of course - not for everyone. The retail sales, especially footwear, fell clearly, especially - I don't know - clothing and so on, on the other hand, more than 30 percent increased the Internet sales, so luckily the customer, which is evident in some way, although in another form, was saturated. Of course, this has affected entrepreneurs in this area. Another thing is for the services, there was the decline bigger and again, we have to separate it well, we must not be nervous that the decline in services does not look so bad, because there are services financial, energy and so on. When we look at the bigger detail, the critical situation, much worse than in the retail sector, but significantly worse, about multiples, I don't want to get tired of numbers right now, I have it here, so it's in the field of tourism, accommodation and restaurants, even if it's a little better in those restaurants, because there was at least a chance to sell through windows, various delivery or delivery services, and so on. Of course, we had to respond to this with some support. I know that there is no platform for this now, but since this was mentioned a while ago, it is a fact that the support in 2020 had some character, especially since autumn, the more land-based, that is, 500 crowns, or at that time it was still 400 crowns per head, per employee for entrepreneurs per day, at the same time rent was paid, at the same time - and to this day it is true that employees' wages are paid under a certain regime, depending on whether they have been completely closed or not completely closed. If we look at it from the point of view of this year, we've made it a little easier. Perhaps the important report, which is, is that the new programmes, which, among other things, are of great interest, and it is a good thing, we are glad that it is simplified - and here I would also say that we have agreed with the other Members, either the coalition or the opposition or the coalition groups within the opposition - that the aid scheme is essentially correct. We can talk about the extent of whether it could have been even bigger or smaller, but what is important: it draws billions of crowns this year. So far, it's set to 30. 3. and we will, of course, continue to do so. This means an important message for all traders - because we are talking a lot about retail, but of course about services - we will extend it by the end of April, of course, so those who are closed - and I am not saying that we have released it from May 3rd, that it is precisely depicting that the last April day when it will be opened is Friday, but that is not important now, what is important is that it happens - so, of course, they will get full support by the end of April, and those who will, of course, continue to receive support. So that's relatively not to say new information, but that's how we're working with the Treasury today. We will now tune up those programs so that we can set up a new regime from May, already based on existing programmes, but a regime that will support those who are either closed or those who are still very limited. Today I have dealt with cultural actors who will undoubtedly still have a difficult period in the coming weeks. Maybe not even because they're restrictions, but purely because some of the seasons are over, some of the little theaters and so on, and it's not enough to get on your feet by the holidays, so we have to think about this. Of course, it's gonna be restaurants, it's gonna be some accommodations, it's gonna be fitness centers. Just the areas that will be standing in May, or in the next few months. [[12.30 hours]] The conclusion that I would like to say: No matter who kicks for which side, no matter what anyone writes on Twitter, how we keep our fingers crossed, how we cheer, I recommend, and I recommend that as a representative of those who might be most likely to open it on Monday, so that we can endure it for five more days. If we lasted for four months -- I'm not an epidemiologist to claim that he's gonna turn the wheel of history for five days, maybe not, maybe not so much -- but if we've agreed on something, they've definitely evaluated the Easter easing, and that we're on the right track to handle it, so don't even take it as a request, but as a request. And that's true of businessmen, too, so that we can endure it for five days. We'll pay everyone's support until then. And if we make it, we'll open Monday in a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u7	So now two factual points. Mr Leo Luzar will be the first to speak and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in your speech you have used two sets of questions or answers to the questions that have been raised here. The first circuit is connected to the law and the decision of the court. In a way, the government has run on its own here, because to say publicly: We know that we are acting against the law, but we don't care, we are doing it in good faith, that is the worst way that can be within the legislature or the government towards citizens. That was a huge mistake. The Minister apologized for that. The Minister of Health apologized for that. At least that's how I felt it was an apology. You should never use this argument again, and that court decision has given you some time to correct the situation, that is not a problem. I'm going to try to sum up the second circle of problems you've talked about. You're talking about an expert group, I'm reading her performances, I've never used them too much in the discussion because they're too mathematical and too statistical. Still, I'm warning you of a problem I'm afraid is about to happen. I'm sure you know that if you have a full football stadium and it starts to burn, what's going to happen: all the people go to the exits. Therefore, in all crisis plans, it is recommended that all exits be opened immediately in order to dilute the pressure of people. What you're going to do, you're going to start releasing it, doesn't mean that people's interpersonal contact will be reduced, but it will concentrate. Because if you open a shop in the city, say, 200 square meters, people will come from all over the city to the 200 square meters store to take advantage of the possibility of buying after so many months of closure, and that concentration will be multiplied. This is (o) the psychology of people and the functioning of the crowd, and not about mathematical models of possible distribution of people. Time has passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u9	Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear and prepare Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u10	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues. So the minister here has shown a lovely piety of his government's activities. That's right, he's the right minister for his government. However, we have heard this many times, as the government does well, that it cannot do better. But like... I get it. Because predicting the situation as it develops, it's crystal ball divination. But a colleague, a Member of Ferjenčík, says something completely different here and asks for something else. He's just dealing with the fact that the government broke the law, and consciously, and that's the problem. I think that even the motion for a resolution is not strictly dated, but it must be said that it simply cannot be done this way, and what the public should think about the fact that when the government violates the law and still consciously, well, that is quite something scary in a democratic society. It shouldn't be like this. I listened to him very carefully as he was running, so I mean, vaccinations don't run as cool as they're presented. Even the first group of our oldest fellow citizens are far from being vaccinated, far from being. The fact that other groups are coming in makes me feel really smiling, because when I sign up for the day, I wonder when I'm gonna get the first dose, let alone the second. But it's just a reality we all know. We know the vaccine isn't enough. Today I noticed that Europe wants to press charges against AstraZenec, that it doesn't deliver, and so on and so on. As far as the county lockdown is concerned, I'm from the closed county, Trutnov. The situation is one of the best there now. Well, I've been there before, even in Náchod, there were even twice that the situation was the worst and then it was good. But the government did that when the curve started to fall, they just locked us in. And what I'm saying is, it turns out that we actually drowned. The virus behaved in a very mysterious way from the point of view of attacking us all, affects everyone differently. I don't want to argue with the opinions of experts, I think the expert, the opinion, but the reality is that we as the most watered district at the moment are in the best position, and it is necessary to say this reality: the most watered, the sickest, the most dead. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u11	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and Mrs Tereza Hyťhováťhová will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will be very brief, although this could be discussed for a long time, but we want us to vote on it and we can decide, so I will indeed be very brief. In fact, the discussion here - and I will follow up with my colleague, Ivan Adamec - is not possible for the rule of law to restrict citizens' rights beyond the law. It is necessary to realise that all these measures affect the right of business, the livelihood of tens of thousands of people, and the consequences of the long closure of retail and services are very devastating and very fatal for these people. I would, Minister - you said that epidemiologists should make decisions and that you are following this - I would quote one sentence from the Supreme Administrative Court's decision to retail: "Not even as exceptional a situation as the need to cope with an epidemic of contagious disease, does the rule of epidemiologists or other specialists allow in a democratic legal state a government of epidemiologists or other specialists to a partial, whatever a major problem. " This is in the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, and the Supreme Administrative Court is therefore talking about it, and it has therefore accused you of the work flaws that there should be some proportionality and proportionality of the measures taken, and the government that should discuss this should also think about other aspects of life, not only to decide one aspect accordingly. Of course, no one wants another wave to spread here, which would have fatal consequences for people's lives. On the other hand, we must also say that the government, although we have been calling all along, has not been able to give us any relevant data on how this disease is spreading in the retail sector. On the contrary, it continued to discriminate against the retail sector, and thus it accumulated people - and you are talking about mobility, and I am talking about the accumulation of people - in large shops that also had some competitive advantage. We've been pointing that out the whole time. We pointed out that under hygienic conditions comparable to those large shops, in order to reduce the epidemic risks, retail could work. We will join and vote clearly as a club for the motion for a resolution, because economic damage is increasing every day, discrimination against small business continues, but it is also not possible for the government to go beyond the law with its measures. We are in a democratic state, we must all, as well as the government, follow the legal legislation that has been adopted in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u13	Member Tereza Hyťhová will now appear and Mr Milan Feranec will prepare his final application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to present here the position of the Tricolor movement. We will certainly support all the resolutions that will lead to the opening, as soon as possible, of the retail opening. I believe, on the contrary, that by opening up retail shops, first of all, it will improve both the economic situation, the situation of life, also our businessmen and vice versa, it will be a smaller concentration of people, which will spread out in addition to wholesalers, also into those retailers. And I don't think that if wholesalers can work under certain hygiene conditions, I see no reason why retail couldn't work like that. [[12.40 hours]] I would therefore also like to propose a short resolution for us: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to open all retail stores in the Czech Republic immediately on 26 April 2021." So it's Monday. I think retail has been closed for a very long time, and they deserve to be opened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u15	Mr. Milan Feranec will now appear. It's the last application so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to what my colleague Ferjenčík said at the beginning when he actually evaluated the situation. It was actually said in the speeches of colleagues from the ODS - the government broke the law, violated the pandemic law. Well, of course, the pandemic law imposes extraordinary measures by the Ministry of Health to give prior consent, but allows it to expire if there is a danger of delay in order to be additional within 48 hours. That was exactly this case that came up. By the way, what was it like? The Ministry of Health issued measure 10. 4, 11. 4. Ended the emergency situation when the measures were under emergency conditions, another legislation, and the government consecrated this step 12. 4. Yes, it could have done so, or the Department of Health, that after the emergency, it would have set up measures only from 13.4. and one day we would have open shops, everyone would rush in and you would all criticize how bad it was done, why business opened for that one day. It's just that. Next thing you know, there's some legal controversy about that, what's the limit. Restrictions do not mean no action. By the way, in the administrative court's judgment, this concerns the assembly, but this is not relevant, so the emergency measures of the Ministry of Health limited the activities of trades and services and gave 30 exceptions - it did not prohibit all trades, 30 exceptions. So if something is absolutely forbidden, absolutely free, then 30 exceptions is probably the limit, since we're already debating it here. Of course, the reason for the annulment - and the measures there were a lot in the provision of the Ministry of Health, Trade and Services was really one of them. The reason, the formal legal one, was that the Ministry of Health did not sufficiently justify why there was a risk of delay or danger of delay. That's the legal wording. There was a legacy - it was said here - on the Brazilian mutation. I just want to say that the arguments that have been used here have not been entirely fair and are not even formally correct. Now, as far as the motion for a resolution is concerned. It has been said several times that the government is being called upon to open business immediately from Monday - or I do not know from which day. We have recently adopted the pandemic law, where the control activities of the court are set up, but also the Houses. The Government is obliged to report once every 14 days to the House what measures have been implemented, including those which may have been abolished. I assume we'll get this message next week. Once every 14 days, it's 12, so it works. But I didn't find the House's authority in the pandemic law to disturb the measures. Probably - and the pandemic law supported the entire opposition - you didn't want to put it there as opposed to an emergency situation where the House could cancel at any time. There's no such thing, I guess, on purpose. It's the court's control work, that's for sure, and there's the House's control activity in terms of discussing the report and possibly some kind of solution. So if the House calls on the government by resolution, what is the legal relevance, or what happens if the government doesn't hear, then what happens? Or let me ask you another question: will the House, in the motion for a resolution where it calls for immediate opening, say that the House is taking responsibility for a possible increase in cases of disease? I don't think that's gonna be there. I really just wanted the legal side, because the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport has been talking about health here long enough, so really only if it's not just a little bit of propaganda action, a couple of actions, so I'm just asking what's going on and who's taking responsibility for - yes, always the government, of course, that's what the government is always responsible for - so just really, if we're thinking this through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u17	Now two factual points. Mrs Helena Langšádlová and Mr Marek Benda will be ready. That's all I have so far in the general debate. Please, Madame, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u18	Thank you for the floor. I am convinced in the long run that the government is destroying businessmen, especially middle-class representatives. We saw it on many steps, when supermarkets were opened and the same stores that sold the same assortment could not be opened. At this point, I think that if small shops, small services, were opened in particular, in compliance with all the sanitary measures, there was absolutely nothing to prevent it. These people are all aware that they have to follow sanitary measures, because no one underestimates the infection that spreads here. But please, let's not keep these little businessmen under our necks, let's give them a chance!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u19	Another factual point, essentially the last one, Mr Marek Benda - you give up. Then I'll look around to see if anyone else is interested in the show. One more point of fact - Mr Milan Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I will respond to Mrs. Langšádlová. We've been hearing this for a long time - the government is deliberately destroying small businessmen, small stores, allowing large and small ones to be banned. Please show me one measure, one single measure of the Ministry of Health or a government decision, where is the restriction of sales by size? It's always been the product range, the product range. Show me, if you say so, show me one measure - you tap your forehead, okay - one thing and I will publicly apologize to you here, where there is a size limitation, not according to the range of goods sold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u21	Now, on the point of fact, Mr Radek Koten, I have no further application. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u22	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond here to some of the things that have been said. Given that the Minister was not in the intercessions, at least in this form, very short, I would tell him my findings. [[12.50 hours]] We've come to some opinion here that some goods can just be sold and some can't be sold, but unfortunately, I usually bought socks and shorts in Lidl. Now I don't have the option, so please advise me how to solve this, because I'm running out of everything. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, co-workers, I don't know about you, but I'm just getting it, and it's kind of a weird thing that you come to the store, it's a product in the store, but it's stuck in red tape and you can't buy it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u23	I will now look around to see if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? Not interested. So we will proceed to the debate in detail, to which Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Radek Rozvoral are registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u24	Thank you for the floor. I am committed to the resolution that I have read in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u25	So, MP Radek's been Rozvoral up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u26	Thank you for the floor. I am committed to the resolution that I have read in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u27	Now, then, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u28	I also refer to the resolution that I proposed in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u29	Anyone else in the general debate? Mr. Ambassador, are you reporting in a detailed debate? No, so I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Are you interested in the final word? That's not a vote yet. But at the same time, I will ask you to put it as a voter. [[Voice from the O.R.]] Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah,
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We need to get acquainted with the resolutions, we don't have them available, so please take a 20-minute break or a 19-minute break for an ANO meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u31	So I'll meet you here at 13.10. [[Objection in the O.R.]] Well, it doesn't matter whose point it is. Each member's club has the right to take a break to the extent it wants. However, there is that point otherwise included and another fixed point is not until 13:30, so there is space to discuss that point. Well, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík, but we're on a break, so wait a minute, 20 minutes, so 13.10, but you're talking about pause. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am a little unhappy with the YES procedure, which has set this point, because I have already read the resolution yesterday and received it yesterday by the chairman of the ANO parliamentary club yesterday, possibly the Deputy Vice-President, and so did your Vice-President of the club. Anyway, for this reason, I am asking for a meeting of the House of Gremium, or the management of the clubs, to discuss allowing this item to be voted after 2:00 p.m., as the meeting day ends at 7:00 p.m., and there will be room for that. So please, this meeting and otherwise I think it's unhappy. [[unintelligible - the President enters the debate]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u33	Well, Mr Member, I only gave you this to be in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - we are on a break and you are not a Member with priority rights, you are a plaintiff and also a rapporteur. Okay, but I already took a break. I don't want to limit anyone just to make it formal... On the contrary, I wanted to give you a positive suggestion. Sorry, just let me finish. When the break is over, if you want to express yourself in any way behind the Pirates Club, of course you can see which one of you has the priority right, but now we're on a break. Now we're on a break and they're talking eventually - specially I can give someone a word, but we're on a break, that means pause is running, pause is running, there's nothing to suggest now in a break, and when the break is over, there's gonna be some suggestions. But specially, if anyone wants to talk on a break, I'll leave the speaker's microphone on democratically, okay. So, please, Vice-President of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u34	Thank you. There was a suggestion that the House Gremium be consulted if we continue today after 2:00 p.m. or not. So I would call on my fellow Members from the management of the MPs to discuss this, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u35	[[Voices from the O.R.]] But even though there are fixed points, every club has the right to take a break, and the club of the ANO movement took it. [[Objection off the microphones.]] Yeah, well, at 1:10 p.m., the fixed point that's been listed since 1:00 p.m., so we're going to continue with this fixed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-005-531.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue our negotiations where we have - or have already - a fixed point
