ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u1	385. Senate draft Constitutional Law amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as amended by Constitutional Act No. 162/1998 Coll. House print 895/ - third reading And please, Senator Martin Červíček and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Pavel Blažek, have already taken the position of the rapporteur for the plaintiff. The amendment is set out in the Chambers of Press 895/4 and was delivered on 3 June 2021. The President of the Chamber of Deputies received a letter from Mr Vojtěch Pikal, which means that he is taking his amendment back. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 895/5. Do I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? That's right, okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly outline the subject of the bill. The proposed proposal introduces an explicit right to defend life as one of the fundamental rights of protected goods, and it also clearly states that it can be an armed defence. It is also explicitly highlighted by the Institute of Defence Assistance, a situation where the defender is not defended directly by his life, but by another man's life. The legislation on the handling of weapons that can be used for self-defense leaves the proposal to the ordinary law. The subject matter of the draft amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms shall be the insertion of a single sentence in Article 4 (1) (a) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Whereas: 4, which reads: "The right to defend the life of another man or the life of another man with a weapon is guaranteed under the conditions laid down by the law. " It is about anchoring the right to defend lives with weapons as fundamental human rights and strengthening this right in the hierarchy of rights to the highest level, the level of constitutional. As in the past, established rights were governed by a simple law, no one questioned this right, and yet the legislator, aware of the importance of such a right, promoted such a right to constitutional law. For example, let us give at random the right of assembly or the right not to be subjected to forced labor and the like. The purpose of the amendment is for futuro to preserve the right to defend himself or another person under clear conditions under criminal law, including with a weapon in hand. It is therefore a guarantee from the legislator that it will leave citizens, after anticipated or possible regulation, at least some possibility of effectively defending themselves. If we're talking about supposed or possible regulation, I'm talking about an undiscovered tendency to de facto ban wearing anything that might be used as a weapon. The Senate proposal thus responds to a situation in which in some European Union countries there has been a factual ban on carrying any necessary defences as a weapon, and thus on such a restriction that it is not real to have a weapon at the time of life's risk. We don't want the only way to defend ourselves is to defend it with your bare hands. Disarming decent people with legally owned weapons is supposed to prevent the crime from having such weapons, but the problem is that criminals will never ask anyone anything, and they can have such weapons, they simply acquire them illegally, i.e. repressive possibilities of this right are then completely failing and weakening in the final effect of who they are supposed to defend, which means organized citizens. A frequent argument against the amendment in the Senate was that the amended wording of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms would strengthen the right to possess a firearm. Please, this is, of course, nonsense, and using all available interpretation methods, it simply cannot come to that conclusion from the text of the amendment. The novel doesn't talk about the gun, and it's not her point. On the contrary, at the level of ordinary laws, legislators leave the possibility of regulating individual types of weapons, including things that can be weapons. Another argument that appears to be the interpretation of the Constitution is that the amendment will allow or perhaps encourage the establishment of militias and combats. It's not true, the amendment doesn't change the definition of the necessary defense or extreme emergency. If, in the limits of the necessary defence and extreme emergency, someone uses a weapon to avert a directly threatening or lasting attack, or danger, to a legally protected interest or to a certain subjective right, he has the right to do so, only the intensity of his intervention must not be disproportionate to the threat of injury. This way we can behave anyone, the amendment doesn't change anything in this direction. Nor is the argument of opponents true that this regulation is insignificant towards European law. It can only be agreed that it cannot have an impact on the current weapon directive. But it can certainly work in the future. The conflict of secondary law of the European Union with the constitutional law of a Member State is a question which has not yet been resolved. Not only ours, but also, for example, the German Constitutional Court has expressed itself in the sense that it reserves the right not to automatically apply European Union law in certain cases if it is in conflict with constitutional law or the Constitution protected by fundamental human rights. The adoption of this amendment may thus be essential for futuro and may strengthen the Czech Republic's position of argument in the event of the adoption of other directives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u3	Thank you. It's a little more complicated now. I have the first factual remarks from Mr Holomčík and Mr Mašek. I assume that's to the previous point. I also have some priority rights here. Mrs Černochová has been the first to sign up at 12 o'clock, but to the debate. Therefore, Vice-President Okamura is reporting before the debate is opened. So, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement fully supports this amendment of the Constitution and, in the long term, we propose strengthening the rights of citizens who have legally held weapons. Therefore, the sentence to be newly inserted into the Constitution, the right to defend another person's life or the life of another man with a weapon, is guaranteed under the conditions laid down by the law, is the sentence we wished for there. I'm an active shooter myself, I've been a member of a sports shooting club for over 20 years and I own a gun license. So, of course, sport shooters, but also hunters and policemen and soldiers are involved in this regulation, and we have long supported and advocated that the rights of us legal holders of weapons be defended. The second reason why we will support, support and promote this proposal is also because the European Union is trying to limit our rights by the salami method here, to us legal holders of weapons. In a different way, they try to make the conditions difficult, whether it's weapons or ammunition. This is unacceptable for us, because instead of focusing on illegal arms holders, these are the origins of various terrorist attacks and this activity, so bureaucrats in Brussels, as usual, have nothing to do and create other bureaucratic restrictions for decent people. [[11.50 hours]] The draft of this constitutional law also states that the conditions will be laid down on the basis of what the law provides, the accompanying law. And here it is very appropriate - and we would like to discuss this here hand in hand - the bill from the SPD pen, which has been here for a long time in the House, and it is a law that has the working title "my house, my castle" because the SPD is proposing - and so far we have not received support from you, from other political parties, so I hope that you will support us and that we will also be supported in this sense, I hope and please, citizens in the October elections to the House - so we propose that the rights of decent citizens within the so-called Institute of Needed Defense be strengthened, because today the situation is such that a decent person is in defensive. A decent man is afraid to defend himself when, for example, he is ambushed at home at night, see the recent case in Pilsen, where a decent man was attacked at home at night, breaking into a house on the outskirts of the village just released a repeater, a convicted murderer. And basically, the decent citizen who shot him in self-defense last night with a legally held gun, he's now covered and investigated by the police if the necessary defense was sufficient. This is a completely inadequate situation! This means that at night someone will overcome the obstacle at your home, and today the situation is that you still have to get upset at night and you have to recognize whether the person who robs you at your home and your family at night, whether he has a gun in his hand or is a karate world champion, is obviously to recognize, which is basically the same result for the ordinary citizen, so this is an absolutely incredible situation. That is why our idea is that we would adopt this constitutional change, because it is necessary to confront trends from the European Union, the dictatorship, in order to anchor in the Constitution the strengthening of the right of citizens to defend their lives or another person with a weapon in hand under the conditions laid down by the law, and at the same time we would like to move the debate immediately to the draft law from the SPD pen. We make it clear that if - if I give an example - a man - a crook, a criminal - overcomes an obstacle by force, overcomes an obstacle, that means he breaks the window, breaks the lock, breaks the door, and under these conditions, when you're at home being ambushed and you're protecting your family, your property, or yourself, you're just gonna be right. I think it's very simple, and it has to be, of course - we're putting the condition that it has to be - that you're at risk for life. That's what you're saying in the law that you're really going to evaluate that you're at risk for life. It is an adjustment that is between the current adaptation in the Czech Republic and the modification that applies, for example, in the United States of America, where it is still in a much, much stricter version against the invaders. So briefly, clearly, underlined: the SPD supports, promotes and will vote for this amendment of the Constitution, because we have a motto that a decent person must come first and also the Czech Republic must come first. So we'll be happy if the other political parties support it. It's a constitutional change, we need 120 votes, so I hope it goes through here, and we're gonna take the first step to protect the rights of decent people who just want to defend their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u5	I'll assume it wasn't some kind of procedural motion, and we'll continue. So, if no one else wants to speak before the debate is opened, I am opening the debate and Mrs Černochová is the first to sign up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u6	Hello. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, for me personally and for a number of members of the Civil Democratic Party, the defence of legal possession of arms within a reasonable legal framework is a fundamental issue of defence and freedom of common sense. The ODS has long been consistent, principled on this issue and is one of the most active defenders of these principles. The senator has already spoken of it. We therefore reject any claims that we do so for some populist reasons before the elections. You know that I bring this subject here to the Chamber of Deputies every time some freedom is removed from the shooting community, and I have done so repeatedly during this parliamentary term in the past. I believe that in a symbolic way today there can be a really significant move forward, when we declare loud and clear that protecting our lives and the lives of our loved ones with weapons in hand, in fulfillment of all legal conditions, is a fundamental right in our country. But we don't want to be wrong, the proposed amendment doesn't make possession of weapons a claim. It refers to clearly defined legal boundaries, which the Czech Republic has worked out best in the world and our merit. It was you who voted for a whole range of better sections in the Firearms and Firearms Act quite a short time ago. It's a value worthy of protection and care. The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is part of the constitutional order and, of course, the right to defend with arms enshrined in the constitutional order is also of greater importance. At the same time, this right is more difficult to challenge, because constitutional changes cannot be implemented so easily. I consider it important to reiterate that the aim is not for the number of weapons in the hands of citizens to increase dramatically. Let anyone who wants, graduate and test what it's like to get a gun license. Whoever doesn't want to, nobody makes him do it. The aim is to protect and maintain current rights and obligations and to give them a well-deserved weight because they are balanced and are mainly functional. Although we can often argue about the details of the laws, the fact that criminal offences with a legally held weapon are negligible suggests that over-regulation of legal possession makes no sense and is not the way to eliminate illegal weapons, on the contrary. We know that from practice. Over-regulation leads to a number of people hiding the weapon in illegality at the moment she should surrender her weapon. This leads to the transition of originally legal weapons into illegality, and none of us want that. Our nation has always had a number of proud and free-thinking people who have not been forbidden to defend themselves and their loved ones with their weapons in hand: pie maker Jaroslav Švarc, tanner Josef Valčík, waiter Jan Hrubý, businessman Adolf Opálka, gymnast Pavel Bublík, locksmith Jozef Gabčík, topič Jan Kubiš. Seven seemingly ordinary men who showed extraordinary courage, and today it is exactly 79 years since the church in Resslova street called out: "We are Čech. We'll never give up. Do you hear me? Never!" These were the last words of the parachutists who defended themselves in the crypt by over 800 Nazis. I believe that this imaginary tradition of defending itself and its loved ones with a weapon is in the heads of a number of legal arms holders today, and not just them. Therefore I appeal to you, let us show them our trust; the state's confidence in them. They are the ones who are sufficiently controlled by the state, tested, registered, and deserved to be trusted. [[12.00 hours]] There are clear rules in the Czech Republic that guarantee that the weapon cannot legally have unauthorised persons. Yes, an illegal weapon, of course, can have any crook, villain, and criminal, but no letter on paper or more stringent law can prevent that. The best prevention against gun attackers is simply that the potential victim can defend himself and is not toothless. That's right, and that's the best prevention against attackers. Citizens are well aware that by adapting the Charter, there will be no Wild West, full of gunfighters with colts, damned low, although I am glad that this American brand is licensed today by the Czech Armory. Congratulations! Anyway, we show respect for the defence of the weapon, and when necessary, when necessary. I believe that today's vote will be for the benefit of the citizens, that it will be in favour of the shooting community and we will complete our long-term efforts, which began at the beginning of 2017. Some might argue that at that time it was a slightly different proposal to amend the constitutional law on security, yes, but the principle remains. Please, all of you, support this amendment to the Constitutional Law, just as all Members of the Civil Democratic Party present will do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u7	Mr Radek Koten will now speak with the opinion of the SPD and the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would just ask that we speed up the vote. Of course, I do not prevent anyone from expressing themselves, however, that most of us here support this constitutional law and change the constitutional law so that people, decent people can defend themselves with guns in hand, so I think it is very important. I think we are very much monitored, who will stand up to this, and I would really like to support it, this law, in as many numbers as possible, because it is a constitutional change, we need at least 120 Members. And please, it's Friday, so I really ask that we cut back as little as possible, so that we can vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u9	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will now speak with priority and prepare Mr Mašek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It didn't have to be with priority rights. I would first like to say that I am fully prepared to support this draft constitutional change. We have a free vote within the club, but so that the discussion is not entirely unilateral, I will allow myself to read from the opinion of someone who also supports this law, and this is a government that simply raises some questions that I think should be raised and answered properly in the debate. I believe the plaintiff is prepared for this. The Government notes that "First of all the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms is part of the constitutional order, it forms a fundamental pillar of the legal order of the Czech Republic. As such, it should not be subject to transitional and ill-advised adjustments of a partial nature which have not been subject to broader expert discussions, a change of any law, the more so for constitutional parts of the order, should be properly thought out and subject to a social debate." In this context, I would like to quote one more part: "Within the necessary defence, everyone can already defend all the interests protected by criminal law, where not only the protection of life but also the protection of property and freedom falls. Therefore, the question should also be discussed as to whether, on the contrary, there would be a reduction in the guarantee of the fundamental rights of persons, since the constitutional right to use the weapon would be guaranteed only in cases where life is at risk and not in other cases." This is, I think, a question that should be raised here. I tried to address it with my amendment. He proved impassable, so I pulled him back so I wouldn't squash the vote unnecessarily, but this is a question I would like to hear from the plaintiffs, because it is not in the explanatory report of the proposal itself, and I didn't notice it anywhere in the debate, but, of course, it may have already been said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u11	Mr. Jiří Mašek will now appear, I do not see any further application yet. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues. We are discussing a law that anchors the rights to defend life with weapons, this Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The Senate bill not only expresses a symbolic but mainly practical guarantee of the rights of Czech citizens who will fulfil the strict conditions for acquiring ownership, possession and carrying not only weapons, but also various self-defense means. It is important to stress that Czech weapons legislation is one of the world's most perfect and at the same time completely trouble-free. The Constitutional Amendment, which we will now decide on, also deals with self-defense means, such as pepper sprays or knives. In doing so, we can see that where these bans are the hardest, paradoxically, the number of people killed by these weapons is increasing. By adopting this law, we give decent citizens the opportunity to effectively defend themselves against those who do not comply with the law, and they are paradoxically in advantage so far. This is not about the right to disarm, as some have tried to claim, but only about the right to defend weapons. That's a significant difference. The proposal improves the right to self-defense, and it is necessary. The ANO MP's club supports this law in a cross-cutting manner. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u13	Now a point in fact, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, I do not yet have another application for a performance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. The right to defence of weapons, in our opinion, is absolutely essential to the tricolor of free and private individuals. The experience of restricting this right to blameless citizens from abroad is absolutely terrifying. Therefore, we fully support this proposal and do not want the Czech Republic to get on the same list with Great Britain or with Germany, where only criminals have weapons, not decent people. That's what this is all about. That's just how I said a brief position for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u15	I'll look around the O.R. to see if anyone else wants to get out. Yes, yes, Mrs Jana Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u16	Thank you. Some of my colleagues assumed that the debate would be a little longer, please, Mr Vice-President, by five minutes, so that everyone could make it... Three minutes break so everyone can make a run for it, sit in their seat, turn on the voting device, and in three minutes we can put together a nice 133 votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u17	Well, I'd respond to that. I already have the same request from the chair of the ANO Jaroslav Faltýnek parliamentary movement that I should give more time for everyone to gather. So, if you agree, then... it wasn't a request for an ANO meeting, but I would give a three-minute break that I would declare it to the MPs to have... and at the same time to engage. I'll meet you here at 12.12. Two minutes, I said. [[Gong.]] So please, 12:12, it's nice, it's like 2.5 minutes, I guess. So we will give room for Members to gather together to be in sufficient numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u18	Time's up. It's 12:12. After the general debate that we have already concluded, I therefore ask whether there is an interest in the final words, which I have not yet asked. Are you interested, Senator, in the final word? So, Senator Martin Červíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u19	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, let me thank you not only for the general debate, but for the discussion, very intensively, of this draft law in the various committees. At the same time, I will try very briefly to answer the question raised here in the context of the general debate. I am convinced that the expert discussion is being held only because this proposal for amending the Charter of Rights and Freedoms is here for the second time in this sense, has been adapted and I think it has been modified on the basis of various comments in the context of the expert discussion. The second thing that has been said here is whether it will have a connection or whether it will affect other rights or protected goods in any way in connection with not only the defence of human life. I am convinced - and again pointing out - that there is an institute of criminal law, a necessary defence, an extreme emergency, and it also currently remembers the rules that are linked to the use of a weapon in the protection of these individual rights. Allow me to conclude by thanking you once again and please approve this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u20	Now I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word? He's not interested. I will read an apology here, from 12.15 to the end of the day, for health reasons, Mr Václav Votava apologizes, Mr Jiří Mašek apologizes between 13 and 19 o'clock for work reasons, and Mr Petr Beitl apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons today, Friday 18. 6. I therefore ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u21	Hello, thank you for your word. The procedure is basically simple. We have here the Senate draft constitutional law, and at the same time the amendment of Mr Vojtěch Pikal, who was taken back. So, in my opinion, first we must vote on the approval of the withdrawal of Mr Pikal's amendment, then we are voting on the draft constitutional law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u22	So now three people were talking to me at once. Mrs Černochová said I should not give the name of Mr Beitl. I'm sorry, so the right pronunciation is Bajtl, I'll tell everyone. I apologise to the honourable Member for the wrong pronunciation. Now, Mrs. Golasowská. [[Mr Golasowski is speaking with the President.]] Okay, so Mrs. Golasowská is withdrawing an apology because he's been here since he was 12. I really can handle a lot, but three... Now, once again, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u23	Dear Mr. Tomio, I hope I don't ruin your name at this moment. [[Fun in the hall.]] And I'll say it again, I understand that you only have two ears, and they talked to you three at the same time. So, firstly, we should vote on the withdrawal of Mr Vojtěch Pikal's proposal, secondly, on the draft constitutional law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-003-385.u24	The question is whether we should vote on this procedure. If so... I wouldn't even vote for her if you agree and there's no objection. Okay, so the first thing we're gonna do is vote on the amendment... [[Objection in the O.R.]] Withdrawal, consent to withdrawal, which is proposed by Mr Vojtěch Pikal. I'm taking the vote now. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 481, 160 Members registered, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Since this is a constitutional law, it requires a three-fifths majority of all Members to adopt it. So please set the necessary number of votes, which is 120, and I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Senate draft constitutional law amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, as amended by Constitutional Act No. 162/1998 Coll., according to the House press 895, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 482, registered by 159 Members, for 141, versus 3. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Let's hear it.]] So I'm done discussing this press. We will proceed to the next point and this is a proposal from Members... Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes until the end of the day. We're going to move on to the next proposal, and that's it.
