ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-21-ps2017-080-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 80th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards or tell me who votes with the replacement card. I called this meeting following Section 109m of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies on the basis of the Government's proposal to express the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Monday, January 18th. We shall first proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Krutáková and a Member of Jiří Mihola. I'm asking in the hall if there's another proposal for verifiers? I don't see anybody applying, so I'll wait for the deal to come true. For my colleague Oklešťek, I have already gonged. I'm just gonna ask if everyone's really logged in, 'cause I feel like it might already be emotionally filled. So I'm gonna ask you once again to sign up, and we're gonna vote on the verifiers' people. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, 71 Members signed in, for 70, against no one. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Jana Krutáková, and a Member of Jiří Mihola, as verifiers of the 80th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, once again, the agreement of Members' Club Chairs is in force that, in the presence of half the number of Members, all absent members are deemed to be excused under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, whether or not they are excused in writing. The members of the government apologize: Marie Benešová - working reasons, Jana Maláčová from the morning meeting - working reasons, Lubomír Metnar - health reasons, Tomáš Petříček - health reasons, Robert Plaga - working reasons. Today is January 21st, and it's my colleague Olga Richterová's birthday. I don't see her in the O.R., so I wish you all the best for a long time. [[Let's hear it.]] With the replacement card number 15, Mr Kohoutek votes. Members of Parliament, as of 5 October 2020, the Government has declared in accordance with the Rule of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. 5 and 6 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on the safety of the Czech Republic, for the territory of the Czech Republic due to health risks in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of coronavirus known as SARS-CoV-2 in the Czech Republic for a maximum period of 30 days. The Chamber of Deputies subsequently held its 78th meeting on 22 December 2020 by its resolution No. At the request of the Government, 1443 renewed the duration of the emergency period by 30 days, i.e. until 22 January 2021. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Whereas: 2 of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, the Government may extend the period for declaring emergency status only after the prior approval of the Chamber of Deputies. On 18 January this year, the Government requested the Chamber of Deputies to extend the emergency period in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic until 21 February 2021. According to Article 109m (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) The Chamber of Deputies shall decide on such a proposal in abridged procedure. We will now proceed to our own programme of the 80th meeting, as shown on the invitation. I'm asking if anyone has an additional proposal on the agenda. I don't see anyone, so we'll follow the invitation. I'll call my colleagues again. We would therefore now vote on the proposal for the 80th meeting, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 2, 83 Members registered, for 69, against 11. I note that the draft agenda has been approved and that we will continue. I open one point, and that's it.
