ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u1	239. Members of Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Petr Dolínek, Jana Černochová, Květa Matušovská, Marian Jurečka, Tomio Okamura, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended /house print 837/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 837/1. I prosit that the proposal put forward as an applicant by Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I am just pointing out that Mr Birke is not here, that we should still appoint a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u3	We won't get to that until after you give us the proposal. But thank you for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the proposal by Members Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Petr Dolínek, Jana Černochová, Matušovská, Marian Jurečka, Tomio Okamura, Petr Gazdík and others. The proposed amendment corrects the shortcomings in Law No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles. The aim of the proposed law is to adjust the conditions for obtaining the professional competence of drivers to drive a motor vehicle, especially motorcycles. Thus, there is an adjustment in the method of training and subsequent testing, the determination of the maximum number of attempts that an applicant for a driving licence may undergo without having to repeat instruction or training, and the unification of the modification of the tests for applicants for a driving licence and for drivers undergoing a driving proficiency check. These are merely changes of a technical nature which are not controversial and aim only to make the process more effective. The initial proposal envisaged approval in the first half of 2020. The driver will be obliged to ensure that the driving training does not last longer than four hours. Up to now, training to drive a vehicle must not last longer than two hours of instruction. The proposed amendment allows the driver's instructor to train with one applicant on a motorway or some specific driving operations that cannot be carried out near the driver's establishment from more distant places from the motorway or other location not close to the establishment. For groups AM, A1, A2, A, B1 or B for basic and extended training and training, it shall be applied only in the final stage of training when a completely independent ride is being rehearsed. Furthermore, the change will allow large vehicles, tractors, trucks and buses, where the preparation for driving, such as air-system pressure, takes time for the vehicle to be better used and saved by applicants at a low number of applicants and often when commuting from a greater distance. Driving schools for these groups are significantly fewer and the applicant has to commute frequently to the places where the vehicles are being removed at a greater distance. Large vehicles cannot park in the city centers and the driver's school teacher has to commute to a stand-off area for two lessons. The current legislation does not allow a person who participates in the basic training for obtaining a driving teacher's professional certificate to legally participate in the vehicle's interrogations during practical driving training. This is why it is proposed to change this and to improve the preparation of new driving school teachers so that they can be present. At present, a dangerous practice has spread where a driver's school teacher supervises two applicants on a motorcycle, while often sitting in a passenger car in the teacher's seat while conducting training with an applicant for a driver's licence on a passenger car. This is not explicitly prohibited in the law and significantly endangers the safety of traffic and health and the lives of applicants. The proposed adjustment clearly states: one teacher - one pupil. I have met with the objection that this is unnecessary and that we make this proposal unnecessarily difficult for drivers to practice. However, this was not necessary in the law before, since the driver's instructor sat on a motorcycle behind a pupil and could not actually teach more than one pupil. At the moment, it really happens that the teacher sits in the car, at the same time takes care of the driver of the car and also the driver of the motorcycle. How good can such a lesson be then? [[18.40 hours]] It is proposed that the excess obligation imposed on the driver to accompany the driver's instructor to the road traffic test is abolished. The student will certainly be able to do the written tests himself without the supervision of the teacher. Other proposed changes in connection with the extension of the time limit for repeated tests change the conditions for their conduct. The proposed changes will motivate applicants to take a more responsible approach when preparing for the test. The threat of repetition of teaching or training after the third unsuccessful attempt and repetition of the entire teaching and training after three additional unsuccessful attempts will prevent the continuous repetition of the tests in underprepared applicants. This condition of new teaching or training for participation in the next retest was valid until 2000 and applied from 2001 to the current revision of the examination in accordance with Section 45 of the Act. The measure will partially eliminate the access of the applicant's driving school to a lack of preparation for the final test and subsequently collecting payments for repeated tests. This unhappy condition today, among other things, overwhelms the test system. The proposed amendment further specifies the obligation to teach or train the applicant in such a case. Another long-term problem is too short, a six-month period for the repair test for motorcycles. During the winter period motorcycle tests are not performed except for exceptions and applicants who started the exam in September, October and did not benefit have disproportionately little time to complete it during the spring period and often fail not even one retest attempt. Basically, you can't ride a motorcycle on snow. Since a number of applicants carry out combined motorcycle training together with another group, it is desirable that this extended period should apply to all groups. The change is related to the adjustment under paragraphs 7 and 8 which tighten the conditions for repeated tests and, in the context of these changes, specifies the start of the 12-month period for repeated tests. In carrying out the tests on motorcycles, there are often situations where the applicant has passed the so-called special tasks of the first part of the test carried out on a specific parcel and has not benefited until the second part of the test has been carried out. During the repeated test, the applicant is then forced to repeat the first, separate part which he has already passed in the previous test. This makes it unnecessary for everyone involved, in particular time, and for the applicant to be financially and unnecessarily burdened. In the context of the amendments, it is proposed to harmonise the conditions for testing applicants and for checking drivers. There is no reasonable reason why, in the same range and content of the test, drivers should have different conditions than those applying for a driving licence. The possibility of one repeated test only affects the tested driver in a stressful way. The change will further simplify the eTests electronic system agenda. The transitional provision provides for a transitional period and gives legal certainty to those applicants who have begun testing before the effectiveness of this Act, with the completion of the tests under the current legislation. The text of the bill was discussed with the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport agrees with the bill. Government on 26. 5. 2020 has given its consent to the draft law. Representatives of all political clubs have joined the bill and I would like to thank them for that. I would also like to thank Dr. Engineer Ondřej Horázný, who participated in the creation of this proposal. A colleague is a member of the TOP 09, but he does not know the boundaries, nor does he politically, and in preparing the draft of this law it was shown that he was signed by all clubs. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposed law pursuant to Section 90 of the provisions of paragraph 1. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, already at first reading. Just to clarify, I would like to say that the bill was already filed on 23. 4. 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u5	Thank you, Mrs. plaintiff. Jan Birke, the rapporteur, should now take the floor. He is not present here, which is why I have here a proposal to amend the rapporteur for Mr Roman Kubíček. Because this is a change in the rapporteur, we would vote for it. I don't know if I should gong. I'm gonna sing. Like I don't have to. We're in sufficient numbers here. I therefore ask who is the rapporteur for Roman Kubíček's change. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 196, registered 88 Members, for 75, against none. The motion was accepted. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Roman Kubíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will be very brief because the representative of the petitioners here described very expertly what the amendment contains. So just in a nutshell, so everyone knows what they're gonna vote on. This will help improve the quality and more effective preparation of applicants. It will contribute to better preparation of new teachers. It will increase the safety of applicants. Easier and more efficient driving school work. Improved preparation of applicants for repeat tests. It will make the work of the Commissioners more effective and make it easier for the applicants to test again - it will only repeat the part of the test in which they failed. The applicants for motorcycle groups will be able to complete the tests in spring if they started the test in September, October and did not benefit. It will also help to improve the situation of non-compliance with test deadlines due to problems caused by COVID-19 disease and to harmonise the conditions for applicants and drivers for examination. It'll make the whole system simple and clear. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u7	I am opening a general debate in which I have no one to report to. I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Designer? The rapporteur? Not interested. We will now decide pursuant to Section 90 (5) on the continuation of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 837 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 197, 88 Members registered, 78 against none. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I am opening a detailed debate in which I have Mrs Zuzana Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u8	Mr President, legislation has drawn my attention to the necessary change. Article 3 is currently in force: "This law shall take effect on the first day of the third calendar month following its publication'. Because after all, we have some legislation that says that we can do this to 1. 7. or 1. 1. I propose a change as follows: "This law becomes effective on 1. 7. 2021'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u9	Thank you. Let me see. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? I don't see anybody, I'm ending a detailed debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. The rapporteur? Designer? I don't see interest. I will engage and proceed to the vote. Members are here. We're going to vote on a proposal to change that date. Do we all know what we're going to vote on? We know. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 198, 90 Members registered, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. We will therefore proceed to the motion for a vote on the whole bill. [[18.50 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Zuzana Ožanová, Helena Langšádlová, Ondřej Polanský, Petr Dolínek, Jana Černochová, Květa Matušovská, Marian Jurečka, Tomio Okamura, Petr Gazdík and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 247/2000 Coll., on the acquisition and improvement of competence to drive motor vehicles and on changes to certain laws, as amended, according to the House's Press 837." I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote serial number 199 entered 90 Members, for 84, against none. I state that consent has been given to the bill and that the hearing is over. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u10	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very brief. There is a bill before us which amends the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, press 895, and I suggest, although I do not usually vote for it, that we should still discuss this press after 19.00. It concerns only this press, there is a senator here who will present it, and I think I can guarantee a minimum performance for our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-09-ps2017-087-05-011-239.u11	It has to be designed by two clubs, but the SPD club is joining. I see some others may be joining, but we'll see that at the vote, so the proposal is voteable. We will vote on the Vice-President's proposal... [[Voices from the O.R.]] What, some discontent? [[Glee in the hall.]] If I say so, it's a KSČM and SPD club proposal. Or if anyone else wants to join us? Initiating vote. Who's in favour of acting after 7:00 p.m.? [[Questions from the O.R.]] Only this one point. Who's against it? In voting order number 200 registered by 90 Members, for 66, against 2. The motion was accepted. So I'll give you a point.
