ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-001-018.u1	18. Proposal for confirmation by the Chairs of the Chamber of Deputies Committees In accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article, point (a) is replaced by the following: (s) our Rules of Procedure are confirmed by the Chair of the Committee in their capacity as Chamber of Deputies. I would like to inform you that at the constituent committee meetings their chairmen were elected as follows: Mr Tomio Okamura was elected President of the Committee on Budgets, Member Josef Bernard was elected President of the Supervisory Committee, Member Radovan Vích was elected President of the Election Committee, Member Aleš Juchelka was elected Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs was elected Member Michal Benešík, Member Kučera Adamec was elected Chairman of the Economic Committee, Member Ivan Adamec was elected Chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Member Radek Vondráček was elected Chairman of the Committee on Defence, Member Miloslav Janulík was elected Chairman of the Committee on Security, Member Žáček Žíček was elected Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy was elected Member Vít Kaňkovský, Chairman of the Committee on Health was elected Member Bohuslav Svoboda, Chairman of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports was elected Member Jana the Krutáková Ivo Vondrák, Chairman of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development was elected Member of the Stržínek of the Committee. I am opening a debate on this point, which has not been applied to. I do not even register an application from the point of view, so I am ending the debate. We will take the vote. I recommend that we vote on each President's confirmation separately. Is there no objection to this way of voting on your part? I can't see, so I'm going to reengage, because we're going to have a series of votes. Ambassador Jakob reporting? No. Mr Kolář is reporting, but the debate has been closed. To the previous vote? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-001-018.u2	I am so sorry, Mr President. I voted in favour of the last vote to abstain, but I do have a high opinion that I voted in favour. Anyway, I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-001-018.u3	Okay, so for the record. Yes, thank you very much. If that's all, we'll move on to the vote. The first vote will be who agrees to confirm Mr Tomio Okamura as Chairman of the Committee on Petitions. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote 41 179 Members were enrolled, for it was 176, against 1. The result was accepted. The next will be the vote on the President of the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Josef Bernard as chairman of the Committee on Budgets? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote of 42 out of 179 Members voted in favour of 170, against none. The result was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the chairman of the Supervisory Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Radovan Vích as chairman of the Supervisory Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 43 179 Members were enrolled, for it was 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will also vote on the President of the Election Committee. Initiating vote. I ask, who agrees to confirm Mr Aleš Juchelka as President of the Election Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 44 179 Members were enrolled, for there was 178, against there was no one. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the Chair of the Committee on European Affairs. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Ondřej Benešík as chairman of the Committee on European Affairs? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 179 Members were voted in the 45 vote, 178, no one voted against the proposal. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we shall vote on the chairman of the Economic Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Ivan Adamec as an economic committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 46 vote, 179 Members were enrolled, in favour of the 179 proposal, against no one. The result was accepted. We will then vote on the chair of the Constitutional Legal Committee. So I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Radek Vondráček as President of the Constitutional Legal Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 47, 180 Members were enrolled, 178 Members were in favour of the proposal, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will then vote on the chair of the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. I ask, who agrees to confirm Mr Miloslav Janulík as Chairman of the Defence Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 48, 180 Members were voted in favour of the proposal, 180 Members voted against no one. The motion was accepted. We shall proceed with the vote to confirm the position of Chairman of the Security Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Pavel Žáček as Chairman of the Security Committee? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? The number 49 vote was signed by 180 Members, 177 Members voted in favour of the proposal, against no one. The result was accepted. I'm asking for peace! Thank you very much. [[9.30 hours]] We will continue with the confirmation of the chair of the Social Policy Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of confirming Mr Vít Kaňkovský as chairman of the Committee on Social Policy? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 50, 180 Members were voted in favour of the proposal, 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will also confirm the chairman of the Health Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Bohuslav Svoboda as chairman of the Committee on Health? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 51, 180 Members were enrolled, 179 voted in favour, no one opposed. The result was accepted. We will continue by confirming the Chair of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Ivo Vondrák as chairman of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 52, 180 Members were voted in favour, 180 voted in favour, and no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. We will continue by confirming the Chair of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to confirm Mr Robert Stržínek as Chairman of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 53 vote, 180 Members were enrolled, 180 Members voted in favour of the proposal, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. We will continue by confirming the Chair of the Environment Committee. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that we, as chairman of the Committee on the Environment, be a Member of Jana Krutáková? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 54, 180 Members were enrolled; in favour of the proposal, 178, no one was opposed. The motion was accepted. We will continue with the confirmation of the Foreign Committee Chairman. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to confirm Mr Martin Ženíšek as President of the Foreign Committee, press the button and raise his hand. Marek Ženíšek. [[He's responding to the diaper repair.]] Who's against it? In the 55 vote, 180 Members were enrolled, 179 voted in favour, no one opposed and the proposal was accepted. We continue with confirmation as Chairman of the Agricultural Committee. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to confirm Mr Michal Kučera as chairman of the agricultural committee, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the 56 vote, 180 Members were enrolled, 178 Members voted in favour, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. I note that we have confirmed all the chairmen of the Chamber of Deputies Committees who have been elected to the constituent committee meeting. I congratulate the Presidents and wish them every success in their work. I'm done discussing this point. Let's continue with point number
