ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u1	398. Proposal for the election of members of the Czech Television Council I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor. [[The MP's coming.]] So he's here, so Mr. Martin Kolovratník has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u2	Good evening, thank you for your word. Sorry I'm late. The election committee is just adding up all the tickets and opening the urns. To the next item, the proposal for the election of members of the Czech Television Council. It's the first choice, the first round we enter. There will be four seats on this board. And we vote in advance because four seats will be released on 30 May, when membership of the council ends with Jaroslav Dědič, Jiří Kratochvíl, Daniel Váňa and Jaroslav Kašpar. He finally resigned from the mandate for health reasons already on 17 March, so his place is already vacant. In accordance with the law, the Election Committee addressed, asking the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček to declare a public call for legitimate organisations and associations. The deadline was announced on 26 February, in such a way that by 10 March the organizations submitted proposals to the Election Committee for the election of the four members of the Czech Television Council. 55 valid nominations were received for this call. The election committee is proceeding here under special law, it's Act No. 90/1995, on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as the Czech Television Act, the Election Committee conducted a selection of candidates at a public hearing on 16 and 17 March, which must narrow to the number of three times vacant seats, i.e. to four places narrowed down, Pardon of the 55 candidates narrowed to 12, we can say finalists who are being referred to the Chamber of Deputies to vote. In addition, on 23 March, the electoral commission adopted its resolution number 184, which was distributed to all clubs. The text of resolution 184 of 23 March is as follows: "The Election Committee and then the Election Commission propose to the House to vote from the following candidates: Petr Brozda, Pavel Černocký, Pavel Černý, Jefim Fištejn, Jiří Grund, Jiří Kratochvíl, Jaroslav Kravka, Karel Novák, Zdeněk Pernes, Milada Richterová, Daniel Váňa and Radek Žádník." This special law, the Czech Television Act, does not even provide for a method of choice. Both the Election Committee and the Commission propose a secret election, and if the election were successful in the first or second round, the newly elected members would start their six-year term not earlier than 31 May. Now, Mr President, I would like you to open the debate on this point as a standard and then after the debate, so that a vote on the electoral committee's proposal for a secret vote will be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u3	I open the debate, I have a Member on the floor, and it is with the opinion of Mr Tomáš Martínek for the Pirates. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I'm gonna be a little longer, so whoever needs to use the bathroom can. Ladies and gentlemen, we are before the election of four new members of the Czech Television Council. At this point, I would like to remind myself what the Council of Czech Television is and what its mission is. According to Act No.483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, the Council of Czech Television is the body by which the public's right to control the activities of Czech Television applies. The ČT Council has 15 members who elect and dismiss the Chamber of Deputies, in such a way that significant regional, political, social and cultural views are represented. Membership on the Board is incompatible with the office of President of the Republic, Member or Senator, Member of the Government, Judge, State Representative, Member of the Supreme Audit Office, Member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, any position in public administration, any post in public administration, any member of the Council of the Czech Republic for Radio and Television, member of the Council of the Czech Radio, member of the Council of the Czech Press Office, and member of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Television or member of the Supervisory Commission of the Czech Radio. A member of the Board shall not hold any office in political parties or in political movements, social organisations and associations, civil initiatives, etc., or act on their behalf for their benefit or for the benefit of other group interests in the performance of their duties in the Council. Furthermore, it shall not be a member of companies operating in the field of mass media or represent commercial interests which could be contrary to the performance of its function or could adversely affect its impartiality and objectivity of decision-making. [[19.30 hours]] If we look at the 12 candidates chosen by the electoral committee for this election, I cannot resist a certain doubt. The topic of the discussion of the general public was the relevance of the nominating associations of some of the advancing candidates. The Watchdog server informs that most finalists have nominated associations that violate the law for the Czech Television Council. Up to seven of the 12 finalists nominated associations that do not publish information about their management in the register, even though the law commands them to do so under sanctions of up to CZK 100,000 or under threat of erasement. As I have already mentioned, the Czech Television Council is an institution through which the public controls public television. Candidates can then legally nominate associations and organizations representing cultural, regional, social, professional, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological, national interests. Important regional, political, social and cultural currents are then to be represented in the Council. This is the task of Members for us to choose such representation on the board according to the meaning of this law by our choice. I ask you, my fellow Members, was the main criterion in choosing candidates a professional prerequisite for exercising public control over the Czech Television? Do we really consider any of the nominees relevant? Are we not playing an awkward theater in front of the public, pretending that we choose candidates on the basis of expertise, but really consider the candidate's willingness to perform a political assignment as the main criterion? I assume that many of you have recently received emails from citizens who write in fear of maintaining the independence of Czech television. The election of members of the Czech Television Council is all the more fundamental because it can open the way to control the public service medium for the private interests of individuals, such as Hungary and Poland. We cannot allow the public media to become an instrument of government propaganda, whether or not it is in the future. The watchdog also draws attention to the irregularities of existing board members. I quote: "The pressure to comply with the laws of Czech Television has so far brought at least partial success in the case of Pavel Matocha. After finding hlidacipes.org that it does not publish in the register the statutory results of the management neither for its chess company nor for its chess non-profit, it eventually did this January. Members of the electoral committee have ignored the fact that, just as Matocha's law violates some associations that have nominated over half of the selected finalists." Other media point out that critics of television's functioning have gone into the narrower elections of the Chamber of Deputies. As news server Aktualne.cz says, I quote: "The selection showed that candidates who criticized the management of Czech television and the work of journalists in this public media were given priority. A new form of advice in the Czech Republic arises in an emotional atmosphere, when the chair swings under the director of television Petr Dvořák. Two candidates with the highest number of votes Fištejn and Novák criticized Czech television in their hearing." I would like to refer further to the resolution of our fellow Members in the Senate. The Permanent Senate Media Commission, in its 9th resolution of the 5th meeting held on 31 March 2021, asks, among other things, the Chamber of Deputies to postpone the election of the members of the Czech Television Council to clarify the doubts regarding the fulfilment of the legal conditions of the proposing organizations. In addition, it recalls the Government statement of the ANO and the ČSSD movement, which states: "We will pay attention to the transformations of the audiovisual sector in order to fulfil cultural, social and social services. We will maintain the current status of public media. We will consistently support their independence." The news about Czech Television is also being watched abroad with concern. I consider it appropriate to call on the European Broadcasting Union, which we have received as an MP. The European Broadcasting Union is a European association of public and commercial radio and television stations, founded in 1950 with its headquarters in Geneva. "Mr President, the EBU European Broadcasting Union, the largest European association of public broadcasters, closely monitors the risks to media pluralism in the Czech Republic and is forced to express concern about the increasing pressure on the independence of Czech television, especially in the year of the parliamentary elections. Public service media are critical in presenting pluralism of opinion and, as such, are essential for democratic debate and support for an environment that allows citizens to express their views freely, especially during elections. First of all, with regard to Czech TV, the European Broadcasting Union has seen increased efforts to politicize its ČT Board's audit body and to challenge the highest management of television, which could be seen as a first step towards weakening the political independence of Czech television. These efforts undermine the independence of public media in the Czech Republic and the country's reputation as a modern European democracy that respects fundamental European values, including freedom of the press. Czech television, especially in the last year, has enjoyed high public confidence. According to the Digital News Report, published by the Reuters Institute, Czech Television's news coverage is the most trusted in the Czech Republic. 62% of respondents trust the public broadcasters. Despite this public support, the election committee of the Chamber of Deputies on 18 March was nominated for the shortlist of candidates for the new members of the ČT Council by the election committee of the Chamber of Deputies. We are obliged in this context to recall that according to Art. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, hereinafter the Chamber of Deputies, elects and withdraws the members of the Czech Television Act, so that significant regional, political, social and cultural views are represented. If the composition of the board were not balanced, it could no longer be considered impartial, which could lead to serious disruption of the independence of the supervisory body of Czech Television and later its management. We remind you that the independence of the media is strongly highlighted in many Council of Europe resolutions and recommendations. The recommendation of the Council of Europe Ministers Committees R96-10 to the Member States on the maintenance of the independence of the public service media states: "Rules governing the position of public media control bodies should be defined in such a way as to prevent those authorities and, in particular, their members from being exposed to political or other pressures. {\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFFFF} [[19.40 hours]] Czech television is an active member of the EBU and has a large share in the long-term support of their fundamental values, especially independence. In 2014, the Czech Television itself submitted to an evaluation of the independence and respect of other public values selected by European institutions - the Austrian ORF, the German Bayerischer Rundfunk, the Italian RAI and YLE from Finland - and subsequently implemented a series of recommendations that confirmed its existing coherence. The European Broadcasting Union notes the increasing rate of criticism and confrontational behaviour of the Czech Television Council and has also noted an attempt by the ČT Council to enforce a resolution that could later lead to the appeal of the Director-General due to the alleged conflict of interest, which was rejected on 16 March by a majority of the ČT Council members. We are concerned about the increasing degree of politicalization of the Czech Television Audit Authority and appeal to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ensure the independence of Czech Television so that it can continue to be a model of public broadcasting not only in the Czech Republic but also in Europe." The letter was signed by President EBU Delphine Ernotte and CEO of EBU Curran Noel, members of the Executive Board of EBU General Director of German Public Television ZDF Thomas Bellut, CEO of Swedish Radio Cilla Benkö, President of Italian Public Broadcasting Station RAI Marcello Foa, Managing Director of Lithuanian Public Television and Radio Monika Garbačiauskaité-Budriené, Deputy Director General of Russian First Channel Sebastian Sergei Parker, Director of News and News BBC Fran Unsworth, and CEO of Austrian Radio and Television Company Alexander Wrabetz. The Global Working Group on Public Media GTF also issued a statement on the situation. This working group was set up to protect the values and interests of the public media. The statement states: "The global working group on public media GTF is seriously concerned about recent developments in the Czech Republic, which may jeopardise the independence of Czech television and its indispensable role in democracy in the country. Now more than ever, there is a need for strong independent public service media that citizens can trust. This is at risk in the Czech Republic. This risk comes at a time when the country is facing parliamentary elections at the end of this year and, like all other countries, COVID-19 is facing disease. Recent steps by the Government of the Czech Republic have resulted in the politicisation of the Czech Television Council, groups of people who appoint the CEO and approve the budget. In November 2020, the Board called off the entire Supervisory Board and there is ongoing pressure on the appeal of the CEO of Czech Television, Petr Dvořák." Ethical Journalism Network - EJN examined the challenges the media faces in the Czech Republic, and concluded in a report published in February that ownership of the most influential news channels by a handful of billionaire magnates and politicians, including Prime Minister, has a terrifying impact on journalism in the country. The European Union's executives, which accused Poland, Hungary and Slovenia of undermining media freedoms in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, have recently highlighted the weakening of independent journalism in Eastern Europe. In the past, the worldwide working group on public media has expressed concern under this trend in Eastern Europe and around the world. Together with the European broadcasting union EBU, as well as Media Freedom Rapid Response - MFRR and the Alliance of Public Media PMA, we act as a group of public service media leaders to show our strong support for the values at the heart of the public service media: access, accuracy, responsibility, creativity, impartiality, independence and high standards of journalism. All of this is the basis of an informed and healthy democracy. We call on Czech leaders across the media, business and culture to express support for independent media. We also ask that governments participating in the international conference on freedom of the media consider events in the Czech Republic in the light of the December 2020 communication conference, which states that free media is the cornerstone of democracy. People need free independent media to provide them with accurate information, facilitate a erudized public debate and discussion, make the government responsible and serve as a watchdog in the public interest." This statement was signed by BBC CEO Tim Davie, CEO of Australia's ABC State Radio and Television Company David Anderson, Chairman of the Board of Directors of New Zealand Public Radio RNZ Jim Marurai, President and Head of Canadian Public Radio and Television CBC Catherine Tait and others. Last but not least, I can refer to a letter from international organisations addressed to all Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: "Dear Members, following our previous calls of 11 March and 2 June 2020, we are addressing you again in the matter of politicalization of the Czech Television Council - ČT. On 18 March 2021, the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies elected 12 candidates for the ČT Council, from which Parliament will now elect four new members. The outcome of the short-list election shows that political loyalty prevailed over expertise and independence in terms of selection criteria. This contested election follows up on previous problematic elections to the ČT Council held on 27 May 2020. These have changed the composition of the board so that it can no longer be considered impartial or representing a wide range of significant regional, political, social and cultural currents, as ordered by law. The partner organisation of the Media Freedom Rapid Response - MFRR project is also concerned that this politicalization of the ČT Council is increasingly leading to politically motivated activities such as the removal of all members of the Czech Council Supervisory Committee in November or a clear effort to pressure the appeal of CEO Petr Dvořák. The fact that this is happening before the parliamentary elections that will take place this autumn raises fundamental questions about the motive for these actions. Public media is intended to be a source of impartial information and to present diverse political views. To this end, the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of the EU on the management of public services media, CM/Rec, first of all, provides that independence is a fundamental requirement for any public media organisation and that ensuring independence is therefore the primary task of any framework for the management of public media. [[2012]] Accordingly, the election process of members of the Board should be designed so that this option cannot be used to exert political or other influence on the functioning of public media. The following signed partners of the Media Freedom Rapid Response - MFRR are concerned that these international standards, which ensure citizens' access to pluralistic public media and in the Czech Republic, are not met. We call on you to stop the ongoing politicalization of the ČT Council and to actively ensure its balanced composition in accordance with national and international law and standards. Greetings Article 19, European Centre for Press and Media Freedom, ECPMF, European Federation of Journalists, EFJ, International Press Institute, IPI, OBC Transeuropa.' Ladies and gentlemen, the point we are currently discussing raises concerns and doubts about both domestic and international institutions. I have here an analysis from attorney Jiří Kučera prepared for Vice-President of the Permanent Senate Commission for the Media, Senator David Smoljak. From this 27-page analysis, which I am sure should be discussed by the Election Committee, I would like to quote the conclusion: "The Act on Nominating Bodies sets out the requirement that these bodies represent cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological or transnational interests. The Chamber of Deputies, as well as its election committee, is bound by law in its activities. The Chamber of Deputies and the Election Committee must therefore examine not only whether the legal requirements are met by the candidate for a board member himself, but also by the body who nominated him. The appointment of a candidate proposed by an unfit body, as well as its submission to the Chamber of Deputies for election by the Election Committee, is contrary to the law and may intervene in the constitutionally guaranteed rights of candidates, in particular in the right to participate in the administration of public affairs and the right to equal access to elected and other public functions within the meaning of Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[19.50 hours]] It can therefore be recommended that the electoral committee of the Chamber of Deputies should always properly examine the eligibility not only of the candidates themselves but also of the nominees. In the event of uncertainty as to whether the nominated entity actually represents the social interests concerned, it may be recommended to request additional information from the nominated entity in such a way that this uncertainty is removed. The Election Committee may also recommend that the resolution by which the selected candidates are submitted to the Chamber of Deputies should be duly justified with an assessment of the eligibility of the individual candidates submitted and their nominees. The Chamber of Deputies can then be advised to examine the conclusions of the electoral committee for the candidates and their nominees and to assess whether only eligible candidates proposed by eligible bodies have been submitted to the election, as it is the Chamber of Deputies who elect members of the Board and who are responsible for the election. In the event that the Chamber of Deputies finds that an unfit candidate or candidate proposed by an unfit body has been submitted to it, it can therefore be recommended that the Chamber of Deputies does not make the election of the members of the Board and entrusts the electoral committee with a repeated detailed assessment of all candidates and nominees, including candidates in the original pre-selection of the decommissioned. In the absence of a proper assessment of the eligibility of candidates and proposing organisations, it is possible to intervene in the constitution of protected rights of other candidates, as mentioned above in this opinion, and thus expose the ČT Council to the possibility of repealing the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the election to the ČT Council by the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. On the basis of the above, I propose that we vote on the suspension of this item until the resolution of the Standing Commission on the Media of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is discussed by the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. In the case of an election, responsibility should be known, so the choice of the public, which is also primarily envisaged by the law, should take place. Thank you for supporting the interruption proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u5	[[On the outside of the microphone, Mr Martínek and Mr Martínek are once again clarifying the reason for the proposal to interrupt and convene Members in the hall.]] In the meantime, I shall read that Mrs Jana Levová withdraws her apology from today's hearing. I'll check you all out, please sign in with my voting cards again. [[He calls the Members to the hall several times.]] I will give a little more space because it was certainly a surprising proposal for some Members. Please log in with your voting cards again. I didn't sign up anymore, I'm just saying this for those who didn't hear the check out about a minute ago. So I'll do it twice more. [[Members are coming into the hall, the President is waiting for a while.]] So I guess we're already in sufficient numbers here. We have here Mr Martínek's motion to interrupt this item for discussion by the Election Committee in the sense of the Senate Commission resolution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 147 Members registered, for 57, against 43. The motion was denied. Mr Roman Sklenák, Mr Roman Sklenák, is reporting for the debate with priority rights for the position of the ČSSD club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me therefore give the opinion of the Social Democracy Club here. We propose, like my previous speaker, that we make the election of the councillors on Czech Television by public choice. Let me justify this proposal, because it is quite exceptional, in other personnel matters we are promoting a secret choice. However, when we look at the Czech Television Act, it is directly stated that the Czech Television Council is to be the body by which the public's right to control the activities of Czech Television is to exercise control through the Council. Therefore, unlike, for example, the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, individual candidates are not nominated by the MPs but directly by the public. It is explicitly stated that important regional, political, social and cultural currents are to be represented in the Council, and it is stipulated that the proposals are presented by organisations and associations representing cultural, regional, social, trade unions, employers', religious, educational, scientific, ecological and national interests. That's how it's stated in the law. But in practice, we all know how it works. Unfortunately, it is rather that MEPs, politicians and other people who move around these elections will identify, select candidates, and then rather look for the organization that nominates them. Therefore, if we are in this situation, our MP club believes that the minimum we can do is to make the choice publicly so that the public can at least see how we, whom they sent to the Chamber of Deputies, exercise their right to control the activities of Czech Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u7	I don't see another application. I'll look around... Yes, KDU-ČSL club chairman Jan Bartošek still. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u8	Hello, Mr President, thank you for the floor. On that point, I have one more thing to say. This concerns last week when an email came to the Chamber of Deputies, which came from the Institute and was signed by both Mrs Bobošíková and Mrs Lipovská, when it basically follows from the context that it signed under the Institute's statement, and more or less from what I have at my disposal, I am convinced that it went against the Czech Television Act. Because there is a definition that membership of the Board is incompatible with the office of President of the Republic, Member or Senator, member of the Government, judge, prosecutor, member of the Supreme Audit Office, member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, with any function in the public administration, member of the Czech Radio Council, member of the Council of the Czech Radio, member of the Council of the Czech Press Office, and member of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Television or member of the Supervisory Committee of the Czech Radio. [[20.00 hours]] It is also important here - and here I think that this is the case - that a member of the Council must not hold any office in political parties or in political movements, social organisations and associations, civil initiatives and so on or act on their behalf for their benefit or for the benefit of other group interests in the exercise of their duties in the Council. Furthermore, it shall not be a member of companies operating in the field of mass media or represent commercial interests which could be contrary to the performance of its function or could adversely affect its impartiality and objectivity of decision-making. The point is that at the moment when an email leaves the address of this institute, signed by a member of the Council of the Czech Radio, I am convinced that there is a breach of this law in this case, because she is acting on behalf of this institute, and for this reason I have sent a letter today and here I am addressing you, colleagues and colleagues from the electoral committee, to have you process the legal analysis of whether or not there has been an infringement of the law, because in the event that there has been an infringement of the law, I believe that in that case we should vote on its appeal. The text of the letter, if you want, will be on the website of the electoral committee and will certainly give you a preview, it is not a secret document. I am also convinced that the next election towards the Czech Television Council should take place only after the election committee has made it clear whether or not there has been a violation of the law, because if someone is in control function, it applies primarily to him to respect the laws and honor them. So it is not possible for anyone to control and break the law at the same time, and I am convinced that we need to be clear first. Given how crucial this is, and given that I also agree with my colleague Pirát's previous proposal, that the election committee should comment on this when there is no will, I am convinced that it is necessary for the electoral committee to have the time to discuss this. And also with regard to the staff of the Chamber of Deputies, I have decided to take two hours for a meeting of the MP's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-008-398.u9	So I'm gonna call off the meeting until 10:03 p.m. [[The President shall be consulted.]] That is clear, and because we have not extended, I will end the agenda for today's House of Deputies.
