ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u1	3. The proposal of Members of Václav Klaus, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, Aleš Juchelka, Patrik Nacher, Stanislav Juránek, Radim Fiala, Ivo Pojezný, Petr Pávek and others to issue a law amending Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, as amended, and Act No. 251/2016 Coll., on certain offences, as amended by Act No. 178/2018 Coll. House print 384 / first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 384/1. Mr Václav Klaus has already taken his place as the appellant. First, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, which is Mr František Navrkal. Quiet in the hall, please. Move any debates to the foyer. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. This law was submitted to Members on 25 January 2019 and subsequently on 6 March of the same year the Organising Committee appointed the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a Guarantee Committee. The Government has taken a disagreeable position on the proposal, which has been distributed as the House's press 384/1. The proposed amendment introduces a new crime against freedom of expression, respectively. a new kind of violation of freedom of expression. These measures shall apply to social network operators with more than 100,000 registered users and shall be violated when the operator removes or prevents the publication of contributions under this Internet service. In the event of a criminal offence, the operator may be sentenced to 6 months to 3 years in prison, to financial penalties or to a ban on the operation of activities. In the event of an offence, the penalty is set at CZK 500 000 if the operator is a natural person and up to CZK 50 million if the operator is a natural person or legal person. In practice, this measure will apply, for example, to social networks such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, but also to large news servers such as News.cz, ParliamentniListy.cz, iDNES.cz and so on. Among the criticisms of the government are, for example, the vagueness and uncertainty of the definitions with which the petitioner works and which may be confusing for social network operators, they can put him before a situation where he does not know whether to delete a specific contribution, because he violates some applicable laws or does not delete it, because he would then be contrary to this measure. Furthermore, the inadequacy of the level of sanctions. The government states that the penalty of CZK 50 million is disproportionate. At present, it can be measured, for example, by the nuclear power plant operator for breach of its operational obligations. And then there are further reservations in the government's opinion about the enforcement of the law. That would probably put an end to my intelligence report for starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u3	Thank you. I skipped Mr. Klaus to even mention it as a plaintiff. I'm deeply sorry. This happens very rarely.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u4	I accept your apology, Mr President. I bought a new respirator at the pharmacy today because the old one who survived four blows of the pandemic was already pretty pissed off. [[Fun in the hall.]] So hopefully we're all safe and sound here. We were just discussing a law when a group of activists were trying to get the state to provide a child for you, even if you can't biologically have one. So now I'm representing you as an activist, and I'm going to try to make sure you have freedom of speech. I understand that this is a far less significant and less noble reason than that far more organized group of activists, but it is true. The law has been here for, like, a year, or quite a while, so I'm gonna start with something up-to-date. There's another pandemic raging in India. People are very rebelling and attacking Prime Minister Módí. The biggest social network Facebook has started to delete statuses with hashtag ResignModi, which means calling for the Prime Minister to resign that he can't handle his job. That's the news from News today. I'm only saying this because even though the law is here for a year, the situation is, of course, still up to date. Now I'm gonna start a little bit in general. What's Parliament for? First of all, we're here to sort of figure out what a government majority is, which is probably the fourth time we've done here, even if it's still unclear. And the second thing is, we accept the law. We should adopt relatively few laws. We have adopted dozens and dozens of laws on covid and pandemic law. I suppose you have any idea how it helped Minister Hamáček in the fight. Nothing. The virus is leaving a bit because the weather has improved. We accept regulatory laws that bother someone. We often adopt laws based on lobbyism. The last one was a classic case. But we should not accept enough of those laws, and rather the laws that protect our society and what it is based on, how we behave. One of these most outstanding values is freedom of speech. She's important to us. And the world around us is changing. We used to have more or less a monopoly on, say, television, that's why we have a couple of TV laws, we're voting for the council, we're arguing about it, and we're regulating it in some way. But now people don't argue so much in pubs, often fight on social networks, and times change. When I was a young daddy, the kids were wondering if I had a ping-pong bat with me for the weekend, that was the main thing. They don't care now. Now they're wondering if I have portable wifi with me so they can smell some nonsense. In short, the times change well. And because of that, we have a number of huge monopoly foreign companies that significantly influence our society, the results of elections and other things. The present world and the new left tend to destroy freedom of speech. They don't swear on free speech like we old Democrats - free speech. They distinguish hate speech and fair speech, such evil expressions and the right one, the modern one, the progressive one. This, of course, is devastating to the society we live in. Like mushrooms after rain, organizations that allegedly fight misinformation and fact-checking, or do fact-checking, truth-verification. We're not gonna pretend, of course, that there's a big difference, whether a Fact-Checking Institute like this is gonna be led by a Volný Member or a Mr Navrkal here, aren't we? Those results are going to be very different. We live at a time when there are significantly higher penalties for verbal crimes than for violence. We had a situation here a few weeks ago that a young man, I don't even know if he approved, but anyway he didn't condemn murder in a mosque in New Zealand, and he was punished unconditionally for six years - on Facebook. Whereas people who, say, kick grandpa in front of a convenience store for money often get four years. We've had rape cases and so on with lower sentences. Mr. Benda was talking about football this morning. A classic situation - almost kicking someone's head off, kicking a lying, half wounded player is far less punished than supposedly some football abuse that fell in the heat of the fight. And we can't face those lies much either. The big lies are drawn by the biggest media. That's not when we were young, but I remember how they spit on us that the secret services - in this case, the US - are clear that in Iraq, weapons of mass destruction are ready to be used. There was a war on it. There were hundreds of thousands of dead because of it. The collapse of the Middle East and part of Western values on this planet. Well, what did it turn out to be? There were no such weapons. [[15.20 hours]] In the Czech Republic, we also had various reports, the BIS, that history teaching is pro-Russian and similar nonsense, which turned out to be written there through a political assignment, but somehow had nothing to do with reality. So what I'm saying is that what we have to do is defend the free competition of ideas, thoughts, words and values at all costs. That's what our democracy is based on. Now, in the fall, I'm not gonna be a part of this, but there's gonna be an election and there's gonna be a competition between the different camps that have a better agenda, and they're gonna be calling people to support them. We certainly would not want to have a party just one of the reasons that any other side is such or poppy, or defend something bad or on the other side, because the basis of democracy is, let people take over and decide what they want. It's exactly the same with public space statements. I don't want to, and that's why this law is being passed, so there are some committees that will decide which statement is valuable, which is not. In public space they have the right to be words and ideas both smart and stupid, inspiring and provocative, such as poppy. If there is a false one, there will certainly be enough people who will show that he and that politician are not telling the truth. Last argument. Of course, many world governments, and now I don't mean the Indian I mentioned at the beginning, the dictatorial ones, have pushed those large global operators of these networks to believe that in some countries censorship rules are stricter than the global average. And I only want one thing to be the other way around in the Czech Republic. These are not our values. If they have it in Vietnam that they want to chase poor people who think they can say something free on social media, I don't want this, and I want the Czech Republic to go the exact opposite way. This law was co-signed by about thirty Members from all political parties, with the exception of the Pirates, and then Mr Vácha withdrew his approval from the top, and in some way tries to address this situation. I'd like to ask you to let the law go into second reading. I'm not saying that the exact diction of what is a misdemeanor and what would be even worse and so on cannot admit any change. I just want to defend that we are here to defend freedom of speech, to defend democracy, to defend the rights of all people to what our countries have become rich and what our traditions are, and not to let those attacks of the new left go over your head all the time, because then you'll be too surprised how it ends. This is where Mr. Výborný complained this morning. Well, logically, because he's taking a conservative stand on homosexual adoptions and so on, so he's on the verge of not having access to social networks, being ostracized, reported, starting to self-censor what he can already say, he can't say, and the other side can say absolutely everything. This time it concerned the Member, let's say, for the People's Party, but we experienced it today and daily. Well, soon it might involve you in some sort of thing. Czech TV, council vote, this, that, so you and the new comrades are gonna chase you and try to shut your mouth. After all, the President of the United States has been shut up on these social networks so he can't talk. No matter whether we were rooting for Mr. Biden or Mr. Trump. So, briefly and clearly, it is a law that seeks to protect freedom of speech, to try to prevent censorship interference. It was signed by three dozen Members from all political parties, and I thank them for that. And I beg you very much to let him go to second reading, where I am not in any way opposed to the fact that there will certainly be proposals to make it even more precise, to mitigate, to do so, however, but in some way to try to defend this side of the barricade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate and the first person to sign up with the priority right is Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment, which is also co-chaired under the SPD by our Vice-President Radim Fiala, is trying to address the really fundamental problem of today's day and this is the increasing censorship of the Internet. I see this proposal as a first step, although it does not bring about an ideal or final solution to the problem. Freedom of speech and public expression should primarily be addressed by the Constitution. Censorship, but also disinformation, propaganda and public influence, should address a new comprehensive media law that sets the same basic rules for all media. The government gave a negative opinion on the bill. In the Government's view, the proposed solution would lead to a substantial reduction in legal certainty for operators, administrators and users of social networks. The government therefore considers the way of regulating public social networks by means of criminal law undesirable. But this view of the government is in fact very contrary to both practice and the Constitution. First of all, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms clearly states in Article 17: 1. Freedom of expression and the right to information are guaranteed. 2. Everyone has the right to express their views in words, in writing, in print, in a picture or in other ways, as well as to search freely for, receive and disseminate ideas and information regardless of state borders. 3. Censorship is inadmissible. 4. Freedom of expression and the right to seek and disseminate information can be limited by law when it comes to measures in a democratic society necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the state, public security, the protection of public health and morality. Not even the greatest legal ignorant here will find any right of a private subject to intervene in the right of freedom of expression. That really goes by law and by law. In every society, a violation of the law is punished. The violation of the constitutional law must be punished all the more. After all, how else can the State ensure its enforcement than by imposing sanctions for its infringement? I myself know best what it is to be victim of insults and misinformation, through some national mainstream media, for the massive support of politicians, and even part of justice. Yes, freedom of speech is not impenetrable, just as another right must not be abused to harm the rights and freedoms of others. And it's about peace, I'm sure. If a citizen scolds you on the Internet or on the street, it is more or less a legitimate expression of his personal opinion. If a journalist takes advantage of his profession and the medium in which he has a monopoly on his contributions to his outburst of hatred, dehonestity, slander and misinformation, it is indeed reprehensible. All the more so if the public media is so abused. According to the government, the proposal could provide a wide scope for public debate, but in practice this area would be flooded and watered by insulting, spamming, disinformation or vulgar contributions, thereby practically preventing social debate. As I have already said, Czech television and some other media have flooded the public space with disinformation and often targeted denohostations, and if they are not primitively vulgar, they are all the more sophisticated and dangerous for public debate. While the authorities in charge of monitoring compliance with the law on television do not punish Czech TV for misinformation, insults and manipulation, which sounds really massive, then the justice system is increasingly and harder to prosecute individuals for personal opinions expressed in private, at a table in a pub or in an internet discussion. Along with the justice system, the indication of another opinion is completely arbitraryly suppressed by some administrators of these internet discussions. And it's not about any vulgarity at all, but maybe just a different opinion than officially pushed on covid or any other problem. As a counterargument, neither can spam protection. This really has nothing to do with freedom of expression. Unsolicited commercial mail violates the right to privacy and I myself should have the right to set the rules for their receipt or non-receiving. By erasing an e-mail I don't want to read, I don't violate anyone's right to write an offer. On the contrary, the law should perhaps regulate the possibilities of sending commercial unsolicited offers to private addresses. [[15.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, the freedom to express your opinion publicly is a key condition and a fundamental attribute of democracy. As you know, I am not playing your game of democracy with you, because basically the only SPD movement here in the House is trying to consistently enforce the referendum law. We in the SPD will never stop seeking democracy, and we will not stop appealing to those of you who feel like democrats, you just clearly have no idea what democracy is. Yes, it is a direct choice and rebuttal of politicians, it is the right of citizens to decide in their country about laws, international treaties, for example. on our membership in the EU and NATO. It is also the right of every citizen to speak freely, with impunity, his opinion. Nor does censorship belong to democracy, nor in the words of the classics, any "minister of truth" that Mr Hamáček of ČSSD and Co. trying, because once we start to divide the freedom of speech, the moment someone from upstairs starts deliberately determining what is true and what isn't, what is stupid and what isn't, then not only does the game of democracy end, but totalitarianism begins completely undisputed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u7	Next up, Mr Holík is entered in the debate, Mr Španěl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u8	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the oldest in this House, and I therefore remember very well the previous regime. I remember when not all the laws of citizens came public. We can certainly agree that this was a suppression of fundamental human rights. Then came November 89. The people on Wenceslas Square and Letná were ringing the keys and screaming: we are not like them! Thirty years have passed since then. The role of mass media has grown, politicians and prominent experts are invited to television. Yes, they're invited, but only some. Those with an opinion different from the general line have the opportunity to make their views known only in a limited way, and that is often interrupted by moderators during the interview. Members of the SPD are mostly experienced in this practice. Within 30 years, social networks have developed, i.e. a means of seeming freedom of expression. But there was also a censorship virus. It is common for opinions contrary to the general line to be limited and authors to be prevented for several days, but also sometimes for a month. Ladies and gentlemen, in November 89 crowds shouted: we are not like them! Please think about it. Think about it and answer only yourself. Answer the question: are we like them or are we not? For this reason, our SPD movement will support a parliamentary proposal that will prevent Internet censorship. We are long-standing advocates of free speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u9	Thank you. Mr Španěl now has the floor, Mr Kobza will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I start my speech, I'll show you what's popping up on me on Facebook this week. For those who do not see from afar: this contribution violates our community principles. [[shows on paper A4]] It's been popping at me for a week. Then there is a more detailed table: you have been temporarily blocked by the possibility of adding contributions. It says here it's for 24 hours, but it looks like it's temporary - it's gonna be similar to those allied armies after the '68s. There. And now for that - I hope my glasses don't get foggy. Ladies and gentlemen, the basic principle of real democracy is the free expression of citizens' views, whether in oral or written form. I understand, and I agree, that this freedom cannot be impenetrable. When you exceed certain limits in your speech, it is clearly defined by law. It is absolutely indisputable that most advanced democratic countries - and the Czech Republic, I hope, belong to such countries - do not wish to be able to spread vulgarities, racial defamation, nation or pornography in their territory where children, etc., would also have access to it. There's no need to name it all, it's really defined by law. I now move freely to the core of the poodle, which is Internet social networks, various blogs and other public Internet media. Their owners, who have been allowed by the State to operate these networks on their territory, or if you want business, are starting to develop their own rules, depending on which world party or opinion the owner or manager of this network is currently kicking. They erase and block uncomfortable views like on a treadmill. It's a censorship that even the most advanced totalitarian regimes don't go with. You might think I'm overreacting. I, too, used to think that for example. Facebook only blocks those who let themselves be torn down to some stupid expression contrary to our laws, but it's not. I myself happened to want to look at my basically calm and clumsy profile four days ago. To my dismay, a window popped up saying that I broke the rules of the community, and I was blocked for 24 hours. I've had that speech every day for the fourth day, and I'm sure I haven't published anything illegal. If someone had said something like that to me a week ago, I just wouldn't have believed him. Some might say social networking, big deal. But for me, it's a crucial contact with a citizen, just at a time when public media doesn't play its part the way it should. Yes, I would file a criminal report not on the unsub, but on the perpetrator of a known and specific one, but what Facebook did to me today is not a criminal offence. I will support all ten of this novel, and with me and my colleagues from the SPD. Overcoming laws must be criminal, whether social media owners like it or not. I beg your support for this amendment. Tomorrow it may be you who will not be able to express your opinion freely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kobza, please, and Mr Martínek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I will follow up on my previous speakers by reminding them that last year, the European Commission presented the so-called "Věra Jourová" on the proposal of Věra Jourová. The European Action Plan for Democracy, which is a wonderful Euro-Speak term that could be translated into Czech as censorship. It is nothing more than a comprehensive plan to limit freedom of expression and to punish for political views, informal political views, throughout the Union. And everything is masked by the alleged fight against misinformation, the spread of fake news and hoaxes. I'll see you in the plan. states: It therefore provides for measures to promote free and fair elections, strengthen media freedom and combat misinformation. In particular, the Commission will propose legal measures concerning political advertising aimed at sponsors of paid content and production and distribution channels, including online advertising platforms and bodies providing political advice, clarifying their respective responsibilities. - Which basically means they're gonna call us and influence our choices, the way we're gonna make them feel different, they're gonna propose measures to somehow correct them, limit political advertising. And then all we can do is ask who's involved. This also means that all the information that calls into question the EU and its so-called. Eurovalues, social network operators will be obliged to remove. [[15.40 hours]] It's not a pleasant reading at all. It is a set of instruments by which the European Commission seeks to consolidate and insure support for increasingly tougher and tighter European integration in the future in the Member States and to combat all opinions that are opposing or critical to this direction. In doing so, concepts such as the rule of law, the rule of law, European values or liberal democracy are enchanted. In the future, the European Commission wants to actively intervene in the following areas in particular: promoting fair and free elections and strong civil participation, promoting free and independent media and anti-disinformation measures. As I said, when we translate it into a normal language, it is about strengthening the uncovered intervention of the EU institutions in the process of free elections and freedom of information in the Member States. Thus, under the cloak of familiar phrases, there is a poorly disguised censorship and an effort to manipulate elections. All of this is covered by hundreds of parties to the upcoming action plans, initiatives and working documents. Interventions are being prepared for the operation of social media and social networks, in the field of political advertising. In 2021, the Commission is preparing to present a legislative proposal on the transparency of the political content sponsored. In other words, it will clearly be about limiting political competition, supporting one direction of political views and ideologies, and suppressing the views of the different, current Union mainstream uncomfortable. The Commission acknowledges that the aim of its efforts is, above all, to influence the elections to the European Parliament in 2024 in order to achieve the right pro-European outcome. In these activities he wants to focus on sponsors of paid content, production and distribution channels, including online platforms, advertisers and political consultancy bodies. So we have something to look forward to. But when we move on to the Czech Republic, we suddenly find that there are terms such as prejudiced hatred, hate speech, combating misinformation and, of course, lubrication on social networks, mentioned by a colleague of Španěl. It reminds me a lot of the famous old Lid versus Larry Flynt movie, where in Larry Flynt's court, it explains that if the court forbids him to work as the worst of the worst writers and journalists, it doesn't mean everything will get better. All that means is that the one that's right above him on the scale of the worst journalists will become the worst and that the next pressure will be directed at him. And when he's destroyed, it's gonna be another one and another one and another one. It's just going to be an endless shift of whoever's the worst, and it's actually going to lead nowhere but censorship, the loss of freedom of speech, the loss of basic democratic law. For it is about who will judge what is right and what is wrong. What is appropriate, what is inappropriate, what will be the criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, when we think about it, we will find that these criteria are very rubbery. That they are moving, as has been said in the previous press, when what will still be acceptable now will not be acceptable in two years. What will be acceptable in two years will not be acceptable in five years. So the boundaries of what is appropriate and what is not appropriate will be shifted in the opinion of the activist or social network owner or software engineer who produces control software that capture keywords and delete content automatically. We're only a short distance from the moment censorship begins to grow into political processes. We know that Marine Le Penová was convicted of sharing a publicly available photograph. In my home, Walter Kraft was convicted of his opinion. The prosecution of Karla Maříková is still open. So, ladies and gentlemen, if this goes on like this, we're going to approach the cultural revolution, just like they had in China, when any opinion that was just a little different from that mainstream was severely punished by prison or, at least, by moving it to labor camps. We can't let that happen. We're here to watch democracy, we're here to watch freedom of speech, because that's the basic thing we have here. That was why two years ago I organized a seminar on Freedom of speech and the right of a citizen to the truth. Funny thing was that the seminar, even though it was occupied so that there wasn't a single vacancy, none of the journalists present would dare question the content. Neither the freedom of speech nor the fact that a citizen has the right to the truth that he is supposed to get from the media, not the content that is carefully filtered and carefully selected for what a citizen may know and what he should not have. For what is appropriate, for what is not appropriate. And what God forbid could disrupt his positive perception of the European Union. I am of the opinion that censorship on social networks should be punished by prohibiting the operator from operating business in the Czech Republic. The point is that this censorship is operated by a self-appointed body regardless of what is acceptable or unacceptable under our laws. And the point is, if we let these self-proclaimed censors go, we let them go, we allow them to influence our public opinion, so how long before they begin to fear that someone who has a different opinion will be ostracized, will be thrown out of society after the possibility of losing their jobs? Exactly as we see it in some places, for example. in Germany, when someone dares to mention brazenly about migration or about the European Union. Dear colleagues, the bill we are dealing with is very, very important. It goes all the way to the root of our democracy. And I beg you to support him, because without him, irreversible changes can happen, and they would be tragic for living in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u13	Thank you. I will ask Mr Martínek, Mr Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a law here where Václav Klaus, Jr., who bangs people and deletes content on his profile, wants to send people to prison for up to three years for social media moderation. The law is written so vaguely that it applies not only to the banging Klaus himself, but also to other profile managers. Klaus, who is a right-wing politician, wants to unwittingly ban private companies from moderating online content on their platforms. The proposal is intended to cover an electronic social or other platform used by more than 100,000 users. In addition to social networks Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, YouTube would also meet some Czech news sites with discussions or other platforms such as Mimibazar or film databases etc. For multinational companies, the law would be hard to enforce, while Czech entrepreneurs should comply with the law. Platforms should not even remove robotic spam, which could make the platform unusable for users. It is not so clear how to deal with content created in the Czech Republic for another country, where there are other rights, other rules within a given platform. Similarly, a problem could arise when displaying different content to young people. [[15.50 hours]] The inaccuracy and illogicality of the proposed legislation, which makes it impossible for its addressees to distinguish in advance whether they are acting in accordance with the law or unlawfully, would necessarily lead in practice to absurd situations in which, in order to comply with obligations imposed by one law, they would infringe obligations or prohibitions imposed by another law. Punishment of up to three years in prison or fine of up to CZK 50 million is at the level of gross negligence in the operation of the nuclear power plant in the framework of the violation of the nuclear law. Even with regard to disproportionate penalties, the proposal would probably lead to the termination of certain services for Czech citizens and the transfer of Czech companies to other countries. The proposal would therefore, for example: caused the closing of discussions under articles, which would make it more difficult to publish opinions to Czech citizens and reduce tax collection. The proposal to regulate oligopolistic platforms to limit moderation options can be addressed at European Union level, where the main social networks and headquarters are located. This is what the upcoming European Digital Services Act is trying to do, which is to bring users better protection of fundamental rights and effective guarantees for users, including the possibility to challenge the decision of platforms on content moderation. A pirate MEP Marcel Kolaja and others are also actively involved in the preparation of the act. In view of the complexity of the law and the legislative process in the European Union, I propose that we suspend this item pending the approval of the Digital Services Act and its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union and, where appropriate, extend the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u15	Thank you. One of those proposals is procedural...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u16	...before we close the debate, if we can vote then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u17	So we wouldn't vote until after the debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u18	Before the debate is closed, so that we can return to the debate when it is approved in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u19	So I see this, and I will mark it for whoever will be running the meeting after me, that, at the end of the general debate or at the end of the debate, there has been a vote to suspend the item. We have the last one logged in at the moment, and this is Patrik Nacher, so I'm giving him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr President, fellow Members, I will also give a little thought to the reasons why we are coming forward with this proposal, including what my colleague Václav Klaus has said here, that, as it is proposed, of course, it is not in definite form and that there may be various changes in second reading. Restrictions on freedom - I will now quote from the explanatory report to make it clear what we are talking about here - restrictions on freedom of expression are justified by the fundamental principles of democratic society. In practice, however, there are cases where freedom of speech is quite unwarranted and unduly restricted beyond this constitutionally and justified framework. Platform operators introduce internal rules defining the limits of the permissible content of contributions published by individual users, which often exceed legal restrictions on freedom of expression, resulting in restrictions by operators or administrators on contributions that are not illegal - once again: even those which are not illegal - and which comply with the requirements of applicable legislation. Such action involves arbitrary restrictions on freedom of speech beyond the scope of the law, which is directly contrary to Article 17 (4) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, often by those private entities which should maintain strict neutrality. So short a quote so I don't hold back from the explanatory statement. Honestly, I have been dealing with this subject, such as censorship interventions and reducing the gradual freedom of speech, which, however, is not called censorship, for some time. I wrote it partly in the first book End of financial illiterates in the Czech Republic, and especially in the second, Crazy times correct, i.e. at a time when I was not even a Member. It means it's a consistent view and an opinion, no one can say that you're driving around on a wave. I also remind you that this proposal has been parked here for two years, which means that we actually dealt with this topic long before it essentially escalated before and after the second choice of Donald Trump, when it happened so far that even the pages and space for the US President were disrupted. I'm afraid that if this is the way - and I'm actually observing it here for a while - it's going to continue, there's really going to be a restriction on those opinions that aren't consistent with the mainstream, with that one opinion. We're talking about terms like fake news, hate speech, cancel culture, Me Too and so on. And the basic thing that's bothering me about this is that those who are hoarding for the lubrication aren't able to distinguish a different opinion from a lie or an act of hatred. Once again: another opinion from a lie or a manifestation of hatred. Because our laws are already remembered for the lie and the display of hate. We simply cannot just approve terrorism, spread child pornography, or perhaps any pornography, encourage violence and so on, fascism, Nazism, Holocaust denial, all of this is being solved. And I remember when the pressure on social networks, when he first appeared here, and it was after Donald Trump's first election. Because at the time most of the media was against him, and yet he won the American elections because he was communicating with his constituents, citizens, through social networks. And you know we're talking about tens of millions of users and trackers. From that moment on, I'm observing that it's starting to scramble. I am surprised by the sharp dissent that my colleague Martínek has said here, because I expected that these are, therefore, the pirát who consider the Internet to be the sea, as the ocean infinite and who in other areas are for certain regulatory interventions. At this point, they say let's leave it to the big social networks, they're private companies. I've had three of the most frequent impulses against this since it's been here for two years, and let me give you some basic arguments about that. One, by the way, one of them said a fellow Martínek. Those co-authors, Václav Klaus, Nacher and so on, I will not read them, they are relatively often in the media and complain about blocking. It's not like they have anything to do with each other. If that were the case, and we weren't in the media, then the argument would be that we're a hit-and-run goose, that it's touching us, that we're dealing with our own diapers. We don't. What we're dealing with is that it bothers us in principle that something that isn't breaking the law is being deleted, and yet it's an opinion and it's being erased. The second is that there are rules for some social networks we agreed to when we entered. If we don't like it, we should go somewhere else, which is basic argument. Well, that's true in this case, in that case... so let's stop giving rules and regulating other activities. I always set an example as a pub. Well, the pub's private, so you don't have to go. And the innkeeper has to follow a lot of rules, including his ban on smoking. And it's his private space. You don't have to go. And yet he has to follow it. Likewise, social networks will have to follow some rules even though they are simply private. [[16.00 hours]] At the same time, I remind you that individual governments, including the European Union, often push social networks to lubricate more and more intensively. This means, if the rule applies, the first one, the argument: if you don't like it, don't go there, but don't ask them, they have their own internal rules, so in that case it should also apply in that case, that we don't want them to lubricate more if we're consistent in that. If we don't want to interfere at all, then we can't want them not to delete what we want, what we're here, but then you can't want them to lubricate - those who support it - to lubricate and block and fight hate speech and fake news to do it even more intensely, because they can't really pay both. Third, and this is what my colleague Martínek said, some of the submitters themselves bang on their profiles, but they don't mind blocking. That's what I noticed. I'll take that as self-esteem. Well, it's just a big difference. He's the important difference that each of us has some space there. I don't know how many Facebook users there are - five million Facebook users, there's five million space that we have. And I don't have to go to my colleague Martínek's profile, he doesn't have to come to me, and I define the rules myself. And of course, when someone is vulgar there, we talked about it before, and it was here a challenge of all or most Members to make on the previous topic called. marriage for everyone, so we can have a cultural discussion, so there's no insults and vulgarities, and when they're there, I'll erase it in my space. That's right. If it happens again, I'm gonna kill this guy. But that's completely different than when a third person does it, someone else restricts your profile, banging. It's the same, and we're back to it like we did with the smoking. You can smoke at home and not in that pub. You're at home, even if the environment in the pub is better adapted to the smoking in terms of air conditioning, separate rooms, etc. etc. It's just that your profile and your space are completely different when someone from the outside gets involved. Those are the three basic points I've registered all the time when we opened this place. As for the punishments, and here I'm going to remind you that you're supposed to be consistent, I'm going to meet my fellow Pirates. Václav Klaus here was talking about the verbal approval and six years. I'll remind you of the self-cannabis production and six years of such punishment. Those are the things that bother me in principle in this case, in the verbal approval, even in the self-growning of cannabis. And you know that your colleague Vymazal and I are dealing with this in some way with the amendment because, on the other hand, there is a violent crime where the perpetrator gets two years. So I'm trying to be consistent about this. Briefly last - the Government's position. The government's position was negative. I'll explain some things. I quote: "As a result, the proposal could provide a wide scope for public discussion, but in practice this space would be flooded and watered with insulting, spamming, misinformation or vulgar contributions, thereby practically preventing social debate. " As I'm saying, it's legal to erase proven lies and vulgarisms today, but as we've witnessed before this morning's discussion, if you look at social networks, like Twitter, there are those vulgarisms against some who have a different opinion, they're happy. So if I'm gonna be a nitpick, nothing's gonna change about this. The vulgarities are there now, and they'll be there later. And I'd rather lubricate the vulgarities than the opinions. And as I say, the essence is to distinguish the opinion from the lie and the expression of hatred. It happened to me that when I bought the drapes a year ago, someone posted on Facebook that I took them from some central storage facility. I warned him that this was not true, and I even turned to the state prosecutor for the first time in my life, which put it off, because a politician should be able to bear even a proven lie. That message was on Facebook the whole time. So I bought it, somebody wrote that I took it somewhere, I took it, I stole it, it's been there all along, and nobody cares. If I have a different opinion on social issues, it'll be erased. That's the contrast. Everyone has to see that in some way. Unfortunately, the petitioners do not distinguish whether the content of the contribution is information or opinion. The distinction between views or comments and intelligence is also a significant feature in the regulation of radio and television broadcasting, where the rule applies that opinions or evaluation comments must be separated from intelligence information. Here I would say that the objection argues by regulation that is applied to the media, and global platforms prevent them from being considered as media. So either they're gonna be media, and if they're media, then I can contact the editor-in-chief, I can ask for a correction, an apology, etc. etc. There's often no one to turn to. Strict regulation in principle prevents them from operating only thematically targeted platforms where the operator is not interested in having discussions not relating to a professional topic, for example because it bothers other users. Yes, I take it that's the relevant kind of doubt, but that's what we're talking about here. This can be very easily changed as part of the second reading. We've got 100,000 users in there. When it shifts to a level of 300-500,000, it really will be about those global platforms, not platforms that are dealing with some kind of professional theme, as someone has given me an example that fishermen will write between themselves and that someone will be spamming some opinions that have nothing to do with it. Of course, there's no point breaking into a closed door here. In other words, I've tried to guide you through some form of what the government has done, what led us to do, what led me to do that, that the attitude is consistent, that, of course, it's going to be for me, if we don't just show it by talking about it and that we're going to let it go, that we're going to talk about it, so we're going to show that it's bothering us that we're seeing it, so at least some of the pressures are going to stop. This certainly does not imply that the petitioners are the ones who would like lies or hatred to spread in public space. A shortcut like that just can't be, it can't exist, because it's not like that. It's just about not erasing different opinions. It's not about erasing lies, hate, aggression, vulgarity. On the contrary, no one has a problem with that. Unfortunately, that's the kind of thing that stays on the social media. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your support. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u21	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Mr Nacher is finished and we have before us Mr Skopeček's application, but before him two factual points - Mr Martínek and Vice-President Pikal. So first of all, a factual remark - Tomáš Martínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u22	I'm here to do a few things about Mr. Nacher's manipulation. Like, if you're banging on your profile, it just seems like hypocrisy to me. I just do it with me, and I forbid a stranger to do it, even if it's the company. I've never banged anyone. If I were to pass the law, maybe I'd consider it fair. So, I find it a little strange for those who, according to them, allow themselves to be censored, I think, by moderation. Then right-wing politicians here are simply pushing for regulation by private companies, which surprises me a little bit with those who call themselves that. I'm just saying. I agree with that myself. I myself am suggesting that we deal with this at EU level, which is why I think this is the best solution. Spam can just bring the system's completely dysfunctional at this point. If someone writes you an X a thousand times, just some completely pointless contribution, they can't delete the post because they would be against this law as it is written. Vulgarities aren't against the law either, they can't be erased. And I don't know how this could ever be handled. I wouldn't know what I could and couldn't erase because I'd be afraid to go to jail for this law immediately if I did something wrong. It kind of feels like it's meant with good intentions, but really ill-conceived. [[16.10 hours]] When we look, such a Hitler also came to power when he abused liberal democracy to spread lies and hate against a particular group of people, just as some nationalist parties today, who also choose a particular group, exaggerate its actions, etc. He'll get to power and implement hard censorship. He also banged at his conferences before, let's say, his opponents who claimed otherwise because of SS or SA units. So if we compare it to an online environment today, if we take it that banging does something like that in some way. I think that the European Union can find a much better way, not so legislatively unfinished, to guarantee citizens' rights to have freedom of speech on the network. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u23	Vice-President Pikal, also a factual remark. You have your word, sir.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. First, I would like to distance myself from the ad Hitlerum argument that has just been made here. And then I'd like to turn to my foreman, where there was one thing that I feel must be said. You said that there are some five million profiles of Czech citizens or users on social networks, that they are our premises. These aren't our premises. That doesn't belong to those users, that space. It belongs to the company. That's not yours. Forget it's yours. It's just private space. There our data are extracted, which are then further used for marketing purposes. And it doesn't matter if you set up that profile as a page or something, if you're paying for it. We're the goods there, and I think that's the problem we should be talking about. It's just that our media space has completely changed, and the public space for discussion has become a completely private, controlled private society. And that's the core of the problem that we might be dealing with right now. And this proposal seems too simplistic to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And as I was saying, now MP Skopeček, the performance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would begin by saying that I think that certain historical names should not be mentioned in the Czech House. I think that what the previous speaker used, so I think that we should really save it as saffron and that it is not a topic where this name would have to be heard in the Czech House, and I ask all colleagues not to do so. I don't think that name belongs here. Anyway, on the subject. I think that social networks have become an area where discussions on very important social issues are being conducted, or it is a place where discussions on important topics are also conducted alongside those of less important importance. And it's also a space where political arguments and political competition are spilled over to a large extent. And when you look at both the Czech Republic and abroad, individual political candidates and political parties spend more and more on social media advertising, it is obvious that this is becoming an increasingly important space for political competition. And at such a moment, I believe that freedom of speech is a fundamental democratic principle to be applied in political debate. And if political discussions are increasingly taking place on social networks, I consider defending freedom of speech in these places to be a very important principle on which any democracy stands. If we open any room for the freedom of speech to shrink, rape, then in my opinion, we are opening Pandořin's box which can lead to consequences that I do not want to explain here. So I see it from the perspective of a liberal economist as a matter where I am able to kidnap the regulation of private companies because I enjoy the criticism from those left-wing places that right-wing Members want to regulate private society. But we regulate every crap that entrepreneurs encounter in the Czech Republic, in the European Union. They are regulated to an ever greater extent in far less important matters than the principle of freedom of speech. And there our left will say nothing, and even these other and other regulations that fall on the various areas of business form, approve on a daily basis also in this Chamber of Deputies. And as we are talking about regulation on a subject on which, in my opinion, democracy, freedom of speech, the same creators of all kinds of regulations are saying that we are not going to regulate private companies. It doesn't seem to me like a completely consistent argument and a consistent discussion. So yes, I, as a right-wing politician, as well as I, as a person who believes in economics and economic policy and argues liberalism, am convinced that I am able to bear regulation in this area because I believe that freedom of speech is worth it. I would like to ask you to give this subject a chance to this law so that you do not reject it at first reading. Surely the law is not perfectly written, we can all agree that it is unlikely to be approved in this form because it is imperfect. But I think that opening up a debate on this matter, especially today, when political correctness, in my opinion, is gaining strength and eating away at healthy competitive and political debate, is more than appropriate. I'm just able to bear even hateful contributions to myself on social networks. I once went into politics, so to some extent I have to be able to bear it more than a normal citizen. But I'd really be very worried, I'd rather bear an attack or an unfair accusation than live in a country where certain opinions will be deleted or, in any case, restricted. I am in favour of a whole range of opinions appearing on social networks - smart, stupid, those I agree with, and those I disagree with. Let every man choose his own out of it. Because I trust people and I know that they have common sense and that no propaganda will affect them so that they do not find their own opinion if the competition of the views on the networks continues. So I certainly won't vote to reject this law, although I admit that the law is not perfect and needs to be amended, but let's give it a chance and let's say freedom of speech. I think that the Czech Republic, which has experience with what censorship is, what it is to limit political opinions, political attitudes, should be more sensitive on this subject than any society, even west of us, which has not gone through such a tragic historical experience as we have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u27	Thank you, Mr. Skopečka. I have Mr Belbrádka's enrollment with a factual remark. And Petr Pávek is logged in. I respect the fact that I have pointed out that there is no member of the government here. I said when the Minister of the Environment said he needed a bathroom, a physiological thing, so if you don't mind, I'll give you my word. Otherwise, he promised me he'd come running, but he took his phone with him, which made me a little nervous. [[He's laughing.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u28	Thank you, Mr President. If this is a matter, I'm sure it can be tolerated. However, I can say for KDU-ČSL that the attitude is basically similar to what my previous speaker said. I'm sure there are a lot of things that need to be worked out in the next reading. I would also follow up on what was said here. Even dictatorial regimes have their parliaments. But what makes democracy a democracy is freedom of speech. And what's really limited isn't that someone's gonna write me an insult, but what needs to be done. And so it is, in fact, in our constitutional order that freedom of speech can be limited if, for example, it calls for violence if someone threatens you. Then these are the reasons that should limit freedom of speech. That means, it's impossible to say everything if it's touching some other rights. And here we need to be very sensitive, because this area - freedom of speech - is completely cardinal for democracy and for free expression of opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Pávek's colleague is logged in. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to add on some points to what has been said here by my previous speakers. So first, I will highlight my colleague Pikal, who pointed out what most of us do not have, and it almost certainly does not occur to the general public, that the social networking platforms are simply private ownership of multinational corporations and that each of us who has established or based a profile on any social network, so by his consent, he shows that he understands that all the content that will be uploaded there becomes their private property with which they can deal according to their libovůl. It's not - we feel like it's our profile and that we're putting our photos and our donations in there, there are people who put their children's contributions in there, but they signed or agreed that it's their private property, that is, that it's the private property of the corporations. So they gave up the right to everything they placed on that network or read on it. That is the legal basis against which, of course, the bill, as it is presented here, has no chance of succeeding. What I think is worth fighting for here: this is one of the last platforms that isn't lubricated, this microphone that I'm standing on right now, one of the last that's being transmitted really as it is, which isn't filtered, and everyone can look it up. That means, on this platform, I remember the totalitarianism. I think it may also be a generational problem, that the younger ones of us who sit here and don't remember the horror, the oppression, the political prisoners, the gulags, how dangerous it was to express their opinion somewhere, how they were everywhere, how the state police threatened everywhere. It's just encrypted in a person. And I believe that if there were even older colleagues here who remember the period of World War II and the previous dictatorship, they would tell you even more than we who have experienced the totalitarianism of communism. And that's not about ideologies. This is precisely about the fact that it is gradually being cut off from those freedoms, and the basic one is the expression of my opinion. I don't have to insist that my opinion is correct. Maybe it isn't, maybe it'll be different from the opinion of others. Like a man, that opinion, and it's okay. And it's about the sophisticated discussion. I think that the subject of freedom of speech and free expression of opinion is worth fighting for in this House, even if it is a very imperfect and bad instrument, which is this bill. And I think that by supporting this bill, although we know it is wrong, we also support the debate and work on the topic of preserving freedom of speech and freedom of expression of opinion. And that's what I'm asking you to do. The bill, although I have withdrawn my signature for the legal shortcomings it has, I remain a supporter of the subject to continue to be discussed, so that the freedom of speech does not simply fit in and the opinional pluralism does not fall. Because, as my previous speaker said, there are really countries that have parliaments, but they speak with one voice because they have to. So Parliament is not a guarantee of freedom. The guarantee of freedom is the diversity of the views and the refined and refined discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pávek. Now, Mr Spaniard, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to respond to Mr Pikal, through Mr President, or rather wanted to, but I finally gave up. But after my previous speaker's speech, he won't give it to me, and I have to say, okay, so we're on Facebook for example, and the owner is a private company. Well, if you're a private company in the Czech Republic or in any other state trading goods for example, that doesn't mean you can do whatever you want. That's not possible. You can't even sell goods that don't exactly fit our standards here. That's just the way it is. So there has to be some boundaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u33	Thank you for keeping time and I have no further application for the debate. If no one reports, I will not end the debate for one reason, because here is the procedural proposal before the end of the debate to interrupt the debate until the adoption of the European Act, so that is to say, on this issue. So that we don't have to be specific, since my colleague Martínek will specify his proposal. I'm gonna go get my co-workers from the lobby. Mr. Ambassador, you can specify your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u34	Yes, until the approval of the Digital Services Act, which is actually in the legislative process, and it is dealt with actually at a European level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u35	Okay, so it's a legitimate motion to interrupt, which is not time-defined, but events, so we can vote. I'm going to check you all out, because of course, other colleagues from the lobby came in, and we're going to figure out exactly how many of us are present. We will vote on the interruption during the debate until the approval of the European Act on this matter. We will decide in the vote number 11, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 11: 82, for 18, against 49. The motion was not accepted. In that case, I am ending the debate because I have no further application. I'm asking for final words. Mr Klaus is interested as a representative of the plaintiffs. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u36	Hello. I would thank everyone - not everyone at all - for a very sophisticated discussion. [[Laughing in the Chamber]] The rapporteur will sum up what the proposals were. Several co-publishers, Mr Skopeček, Mr Nacher, have tried very carefully to argue. SPD colleagues also supported the law. I think that very factually, even though Vice-President Pikal was critical. And then we had a representative of the Censor party here, who was babbling about Hitler, trying to personally insult the petitioner, that out of his 100,000 contributions, he banged one person, and so forth. But he's politically thinking, because the European akt, of course, is headed that way to shut us all up, and he's finally gonna be on a horse. So I understand him politically, but that is what today's vote is about, and so far, thank God we can still speak freely and vote freely here. So thank you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u37	Thank you. The rapporteur, please, just a summary of the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u38	Well, I guess I'd just add that these proposals, as they are now for the so-called Digital Services Act, I don't really think they can be summed up that way, as the plaintiff said. That's probably what I'd say here. Otherwise, I think I'd probably judge the performances here differently than I really would. So I'd leave it the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u39	Mr rapporteur, there has been no proposal to return or refuse, if I am correctly informed. So we can continue by discussing how this proposal will be ordered. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 12 that I have launched, and I ask who is a guarantee to the Constitutional and Legal Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 12, 82 in favour of 81 Members, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have ordered this proposal to the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? Yes, a colleague of Černohorský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would still propose an economic committee, because we will actually regulate very often private companies, so that we can have some impact on the business environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u41	Okay, we'll decide. Vice-President Pikal. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There are a lot of words in this debate about the fundamental right to freedom of speech. I see some conflict between the right to freedom of speech and actually the right to personal property. So I would like to propose to the Constitutional Commission that we address the conflict of these two rights there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u43	dobře, so the Committee on the Constitution of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. My colleague Martínek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u44	I am also because it is de facto about the media presentation, because it is about acting online, freedom of speech on social networks or online, etc., so I would also propose a media committee, i.e. an election committee. [[unintelligible]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u45	The election committee. My colleague Kopřiva. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u46	Thank you for the floor. Given that this proposal may theoretically have an impact on the single European market, I also propose a Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-004-003.u47	Okay. Anyone else? I don't see anyone else. We will decide on these four proposals. First, we will decide whether to order the Economic Committee. I started voting number 13. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 13 present 82, for 14, against 11. The motion was not accepted. The next proposal is the Commission for the Constitution of the Chamber of Deputies. I started voting number 14. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In vote number 14, 82, for 17, against 11. The motion was not accepted. Next up, the election committee. I've started voting number 15 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. The number 15 votes 82, for 29, against 11. The motion was not accepted. The Committee on European Affairs will decide in the vote number 16, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 16, 82 were present, for 14, against 15. The motion was not accepted. So no other committee has been ordered, but we have a vote to extend the deadline by 20 days. We will decide in the vote number 17, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 17, 81 Members are present, for 25, against 8. The motion was not accepted. I note that we have therefore ordered this proposal from the Committee of Constitutional Law as a guarantee committee, but the deadline remains from the law of 60 days. That's how we used up the 100th meeting program, and I'm done with the meeting. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur, thank you also for your active participation and I am ending this meeting. I'll meet you Tuesday for meeting 98.
