ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 870/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for the briefness on that first point, and thank you for the opportunity to open this point as well. I'm not going to introduce him for time reasons. This is a law on supported energy sources, which has been discussed many times, including the committee, so I will leave the discussion to the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. An initiative was also discussed by the Agricultural Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 870/1 to 870/5. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any proposals. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Economic Committee has discussed this press here at its meeting on 31 March of this year and after hearing the interpretation of the Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade René Neděla, my intelligence reports and after a general and detailed debate, first of all recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the House Press 870 in the wording of approved amendments, which I will allow you to refer to House Press 870/5, which has been electronically delivered to you, and secondly empowers the Committee Rapporteurs to report on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee in cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, and, fourthly, instructs the Committee President to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u5	Thank you and I now ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, to whom Mr David Pražák should be to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u6	Good afternoon. The Committee on Agriculture discussed 31 March 2021 and the resolution reads: It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies be approved as amended by the amendments adopted. There was an amendment replacing 7 percent by 10.6. It was more or less a small hydro power plant. And it empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u7	Thank you. I will believe that the rapporteur has all the amendments from the committee, including justifications. And so I am now opening a general debate, in which Mr Dolínek is the first to join. Mr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u8	Thank you, Mr President. [[Noise in the hall.]] The first proposal that I would like to talk about is that in the first part of the article. Point 19 I is replaced by the following: "In Section 4, at the end of paragraph 2, the following sentence is added: For electricity generators put into service from 1 January 2021, the promotion of electricity from renewable sources may only apply to electricity plants using water energy from power plants in electricity generation plants up to the installed capacity of 10 MW, wind, solar radiation, landfill and sludge gas.' This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The following point 23 is inserted after point 22: Article 4 (c) including the new footnote No. 8) read: By using solar radiation energy, the promotion of electricity from renewable sources applies only to electricity produced in the electricity plant, which is not located on agricultural land I. or II. classes of protection under other legislation.' I have prepared this amendment with some environmental organisations and the reason is quite simple. In the case of smaller photovoltaic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u9	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues in the room for more peace. I don't think they understand you, and they don't pay you the attention you deserve. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u10	Thank you. I am used to reading others that not everyone is dedicated to what is being said here. The proposal is quite logical, because it is time to resuscitate the view of photovoltaic energy from smaller sources compared to what has been presented here in the past. In fact, if you have noticed, in recent days, a survey of the University of South Bohemia came out, I believe it was when they asked the inhabitants of the Czech Republic if they knew how energy was generated in the Czech Republic, and 36 percent of our people thought, respectively, that most people thought that 36% of energy was generated from renewable sources. In fact, it's about 14 percent. This means that we must take positive steps to meet the hopes that people put in this and that have been confirmed by these researches. The amended wording of the paragraph compared to the government bill includes in the list of sources covered by the promotion of electricity from renewable sources, as well as the photovoltaic plant - the solar electricity production plant. It can be noted that the newly proposed design of the law assumes that the law defines the possible aid instruments available to support the various types of energy sources supported in principle for the period 2020 to 2030 - the period corresponding to the European Union's climate objectives by 2030. The Government shall then, by its regulation, provide for a period of at least three years for which the instruments and the types of resources supported will be used. However, when preparing the regulation, it will be limited by the provisions of this law. I understand that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, on behalf of the Vice Prime Minister, on behalf of his expert team in particular, says that photovoltaic power plants are secured from European resources for the coming years, however, as I emphasise in the law concerning low-carbon energy, or nuclear energy, as well as here: laws are to be written universally, we do not have to write them for some five-, seven-year period. But the universality of laws is the most valuable. Therefore, there should be the possibility of promoting photovoltaic production, even if we are not counting on it in the next few years through a government regulation. That is why it is striking that the proposed modification does not systematically remove one of these sources, which is the photovoltaic one. The proposed government regulation presumes that support for sources of solar radiation will be provided, where appropriate, from subsidies. However, the significant disadvantage of the chosen procedure is that if, in the future, i.e. after 2030, there is a re-evaluation of the approach, it will be necessary to amend the law again. And here is exactly the problem with the universality of the law. However, it is necessary to emphasise that the law merely offers a range of instruments that the government will be able to use, but will not be obliged to use in ensuring climate-energy objectives. The Act does not prejudice what instruments the government will use, and the inclusion of solar power plants in the list of resources which can be granted operating aid through a green bonus or on the basis of the outcome of market auctions does not mean that solar power plants will have to be supported in the future. The decision itself whether to support individual types of renewable resources will depend on the current government regulation, which will undoubtedly be based on the energy mix available from the objectives needed, prices and other things. Government regulations can react flexibly to the market situation. Last but not least, the cheapest way to switch to low-carbon energy, to which the Czech Republic has voluntarily committed itself, is through a technologically neutral approach, i.e. the free competition of all types of renewable resources. An example is Germany, where the prices of solar energy fell in half after the start of the auctions. Auctions also work successfully in Poland, where the government has been using competitive offers since 2016 for all types of renewable sources including photovoltaics. During 2020, Poland, through auctions and other support policies, increased its installed performance in this area, i.e. in photovoltaics to 3.2 GW. For comparison, the Czech Republic is roughly 2.3. The aid for new solar power plants in the form of auctions is also subject to legislative treatment in Hungary and Slovakia. So the Czech Republic is the last state of V4, which does not use the auction, and it would be the only state of this group that would miss the support for photovoltaics. Photovoltaic auctions are also successful in the Netherlands, France, Italy, Greece or Spain. The auction is, of course, necessary to limit energy and food security, for example by setting the ceiling to the required electrical performance of the various types of RES and their location requirements. However, this possibility should be given to the government on the basis of its assessment of the latest market developments; it should not be forced to eliminate specific resources in advance by law. According to relevant studies such as Deloitte, solar energy from larger power plants standing on the ground is currently the cheapest renewable source in the Czech Republic. The development of photovoltaic power plants is also envisaged by the Government of the Czech Republic approved by the National Energy and Climate Plan, which envisages an increase in installed capacity of solar power plants almost twice that of last year. [[16.20 hours]] In connection with the evaluation of the National Energy and Climate Plan, the Czech Government has been brought to the attention of the European Commission just to the address of the Government amendment to the Supported Resources Act, that it is not clear whether after years of stagnation it will be sufficient to accelerate the growth of renewable resources, for example, the construction of geothermal resources or the addition of 2 GW photovoltaic power plants during this decade. It is precisely this uncertainty that can be seen by the Commission in the absence of support for the development of solar energy through auctions. Removed from text - The Czech Republic has not done enough to clarify future supply and investment conditions in its final plan. There is no need to worry about the co-operation of the aid when establishing an auction mechanism. The legislation in force knows the mechanism to deal with the possible co-operation of the aid - for example, if the investor would also apply for investment aid under operational programmes or the Modernisation Fund in addition to auction aid. Here I want to thank the ministries concerned, because I think that this is one of the tools that, regardless of what we've been experiencing for the last year and a half, is very effective, works, runs and I think is well targeted, thank you for this tool. However, operating aid is reduced by the relevant percentages in such a case in order to avoid co-financing and reinvestment or oversupporting. Possible effect reflected in electricity prices: If the next governments introduce an annual auction aid competition for 200 MW of new photovoltaics by 2030, a total price of around CZK 350 million per year can be assumed at the expected competitive price of 55 to 60 euros per MWh, which is 1100 MWh per year. Compared to the annual support for existing solar power plants of almost CZK 30 billion, it is a negligible amount that will not burden electricity consumers. Thus, during the 20 years of aid, the newly built solar power plants use the aid as historical parks in three years. As a result, the total annual amount of aid will be significantly lower as the auction system can be combined with investment aid thanks to the fund I mentioned. To point 2. The adjustment follows the modification of Amendment No 19, when the possibility of operating solar radiation production plants is also included in the support mechanisms. At the same time, in the light of the arguments set out in recital 19 above, it is desirable to remove the performance restrictions on the part of the producers receiving the aid and to apply the same principles in this case as for other renewable sources, this is to enable operating aid to be used in the form of an officially established bonus up to the amount of aid granted in the form of auctions. The aid should be granted in the case of the production of electricity from photovoltaic power plants which are primarily located on buildings - roofs, vertical structures, but it is also desirable to use some brownfield land and similar land. However, it must be ensured that agricultural land usable for agricultural purposes will not be used for the purposes of the construction of these power plants in such a way that plant production is not disrupted for the sustainability of the supply of the population and the like. The proposal therefore excludes production aid from those plants which would be located on agricultural soils I. and II. classes of protection under the Law on the Protection of Agricultural Soil Fund. They are therefore solar power plants which could be located next to the buildings on hard-to-use land - territories affected by industrial, mining or similar activities, in justified cases on the areas of the agricultural soil fund, provided that they are allowed to be used by the competent authorities of the state administration, but always on lower quality land classified in III. to the V. class of protection. I hope that farmers will appreciate this, even though I know that some photovoltaic power plants are already designed so that agricultural production can also take place within their installation. However, I think that in the early years it is certainly better to protect the highest quality soil. Then I have other amendments. One amendment deals with how compensation is made. I will not exactly read the individual points, but I would like to say here that the justification for the proposal is: one of the reasons for amending the POZE Act was to ensure that there is no disproportionate support in the granting of the aid, i.e. one which would be contrary to the European Union rules on public aid, in particular Art. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. The Czech Republic has also committed itself to fulfilling its obligations under the notification decisions of the European Commission confirming that the relevant aid granted under the POZE Act is compatible with the abovementioned rules. The limit - and now I am talking in this very position about the proposal for overcompensation, among other things - prevents the so-called overcompensation and is intended to prevent excessive support from being granted. The threshold for disproportionate aid should correspond to the indicative value of the allowed rate of internal yield percentage of investment in the production plant, the so-called IRR, based on the values set out in the European Commission Decision of 28 November 2016 - Czech Republic - Support for the production of electricity from renewable energy sources intended for renewable sources put into operation from January 2006 to 31 December 2012, which provided that the extent of the return on IRR moving between 6,3 and 10,6 % is considered admissible. In this Decision, the European Commission laid down the conditions for the granting of State aid for electricity from renewable sources, as well as the amount of aid it considers appropriate for solar power plants. The lower limit of the internal yield percentage was set at 6.3 %. This value must be considered to be inconclusive, taking into account the amount of aid and the levy imposed by the State on electricity producers. The determination of this value has created legitimate expectations on the part of producers to be respected. Otherwise, there is a risk of litigation between producers against the State where producers and potential investors and banks may sue the State for non-compliance with this legitimate expectation. If, as a result of the introduction of the levy on electricity from solar radiation under the amendment to the POZE Act in a particular case, the lower limit of the internal yield percentage, i.e. 6.3 %, would be compromised by the electricity producer's so-called choking effect, where the remuneration of such a levy could be for the winding-up producer. My colleague Luzar asked me to make it a little easier to perform. I'm willing to be alone. I just needed to describe this precisely to make it clear this complex thing that I'm proposing. It'll be easier with the other things. And so I propose here an amendment that leads to the fact that, in the event that there should be a choking effect, the law will in principle prevent it. That means whatever we decide here, we're going to set up an internal yield percentage, IRR support, and so on, there's an instrument that guarantees that we won't allow our decision to be effectively liquidated just because the grunting effect would work. I'm sorry, but I think this has to be explained. Then I have two amendments. Unfortunately, the rapporteur's colleague or the representative rapporteur of the agricultural committee did not describe the amendments they adopted, but in the logic of what has already been adopted by the committee and proposed, in the logic of what the rapporteur Pustějovskýějovský will also record, so we agreed, probably across the sub-Committee on Energy, that we will give the House plenary a relatively wide range of choices on how we want to support this energy, or how we want to operate in renewable resources in this support. I would like to thank Mr. Vice Prime Minister that he would have already taken away some tables about yield, or what it will cost, and so on. And I'm loading some of the things that are listed here in these thousands. The reasoning is simple. We will then choose which model is the most effective for our energy, which will ensure the operation of renewable resources, but will also guarantee that there will be no overcompensation, unnecessary spending of money, and expensive prices for end customers. That's probably the key. I just want to ask from this Vice Prime Minister's position that for all of our amendments - there will be little - he will try to do some calculation - or his expert team - so that we can compare after what it means in the real numbers. And thank you for your patience with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u11	Thank you. We will continue the general debate. Now, Mr Bendl, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, Mr Dolínek has said a lot, and I would like to thank you for this, because he quoted it quite in detail here and there is no need for me to go into detail. He also mentioned agriculture, and I would like to really focus the Minister of Industry on the proposal of the Committee on Agriculture, where this has passed through the political spectrum - as they call it - an internal yield percentage in accordance with 10.6 on the area of water, that is the letter. (a) because if the Government's bill had been passed, there would have been hundreds of million losses in the water catchment area, and I think we cannot accept and afford that. And we also have to take note that there's a lot of businessmen that I'm gonna say not only in agriculture, but because we talked about it on the agricultural committee, I want to... [[Silence for noise in the hall.]] Thank you. Since we have discussed this in detail on the agricultural committee, I would like to draw attention to the fact that agriculture and farmers in general, food professionals, are very motivated to increasingly use renewable resources, to behave in accordance with nature, and to say as little as possible damage to the environment, and therefore to use renewable resources. They're looking for ways. You know that farmers use biogas stations in particular, but also small hydropower plants, in short, all possible renewable resources are used to become more competitive on the one hand and on the other hand to protect nature and landscape. Therefore, I ask you very much, Minister of Industry and Transport, to find a level that will not lead to speculation on the market, that large financial entities will wait, who small decent, who had some financial plan to use renewable resources to function, so that someone can look forward to how they start to fail, because it just won't work out for them. If we can't do this, then we are completely unaccounted for, and it would be good for you, like the Minister of Agriculture, and in this I would stand up for him, even though the opposition and often criticizing him, in this I would stand up for him, that he had the courage, and as I say, across the political spectrum, we would at least intervene in that water and propose to the Chamber of Deputies that the government's proposal, which set the water area at 7 percent, would increase to 10.6. It is clear to me that it can't be the same for each area of OZ, but it can't be that different, and you know and you have to be under pressure specific, and now I'm going to say decent businessmen in this area who are going to get into huge financial difficulties with this government proposal. Therefore, you need to come up with a proposal. If it finally looks like a lottery - what Mr. Dolínek said here in good faith - but with 15 suggestions, when one government doesn't point at one government and says at least this is what we prefer, you have no idea what will come out of it. I think the Minister's responsibility would be to say what he prefers and not to wait for what eventually falls out of the Chamber of Deputies. That would be very irresponsible. So all of us, I mean, for agriculture, but also for the whole, we're waiting for the government to stand up to this, or the Minister of Industry and Trade, because we don't actually hear much yet. Everyone knows that, as your proposal is, it is unacceptable, causing enormous difficulties in all areas of OZ, and that you are unable to come up with a compromise proposal, it is simply wrong, and that we should draw lots here at the Chamber of Deputies meeting and then blame each other for how, why, who voted for what, I think, is not a good way to go. Therefore, Minister, I call on you to propose a percentage that will protect the decent ones, and not only will the agricultural sector put them in a position to continue working forward on renewables and their use, because Europe will certainly want us to do so - especially in agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u13	Thank you. And now, Mr. kolovratník, it's his turn. If I don't see him in the hall... I can already see him in the hall, so we'll give him the opportunity to prepare Mr. Pávek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u14	I'm so sorry. Good afternoon. Mega Briefly: I have an amendment in this press under number 7741. It concerns the promotion of public electricity transport or public transport under electric traction. It is aid in the sense that all rail transport on the railway, tram, trolleybus and cable can have a chance to be excluded from the calculation of the payment to promote renewable resources. I know it is a very high-value proposal, according to estimates up to CZK 900 million, but it is a proposal that would very, very much help all rail transport, and especially now in the coming time, and all transport companies throughout the Czech Republic. That is why I have tried to propose it, in a detailed debate I will apply to it and then I will believe that both with colleagues at ministries and on the Economic Committee we will look for a way to see if, perhaps, such a proposal could get your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u15	Thank you. Thank you for the briefness. Now Mr Pávek, Mr Jurečka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Minister, I have four amendments to this law here. I'll be very, very brief. The first of these, under number 8237, sets a uniform internal yield percentage of 9.5%. The second amendment is conducted under 8238 in the system and the internal yield percentage is set between 8,4 and 9,5 %. Then I have a 7789 amendment here under the number, which is a little bit hearty. I'm gonna stop by his place for a little while, which presumes a ban on biomass burning in boilers with a power of over 20 mW. I dare say a few words about that, because I really care about it a lot. It is so that today we have quite a lot of wood due to the barking calamity that we can burn, but this supply will gradually exhaust and it is completely unacceptable that we simply plunder our forests and throw them into the boilers. That's why there's a power limit of 20 mW. Anything else just doesn't come into consideration from my perspective in the context of other areas of our life, whether it's nature and landscape, whether it's water retention, whether it's other aspects of the quality of life in this country, and I just don't want to look at the way our forests are looting here and they're going to go into these huge boilers just because there's no understandable government concept here, and just because we're not innovative enough, because those technologies that could replace coal exist, they are, and it's just that kind of retardation in terms of professional topics, so those people who are very often expressing themselves can only imagine when we have to end up with coal, so we're going to throw our forests there. So in this case I am fundamentally, fundamentally opposed, and therefore I propose limiting the maximum power of 20 mW. [[16.40 hours]] And the last is the amendment that is being held in the system under number 8253. It's not originally mine, it's Petr Dolínek's colleague who gave it up, so I'm taking it back. This concerns market inequality in the area of incorporation of biofuels into fuel. Perhaps some of you know that CEPRO, which has fuel supplies in the Treasury, doesn't mix the files, the bio-components. Then the diesel without biofuels is sold in the EuroOil network and it creates an inequality in the market environment because there's someone who's privileged who can sell diesel without biofuels, which, of course, the others would also like to provide drivers, because we all just know that diesel engines run better than when the biofuels aren't there than when they're there. The value of this difference is about CZK 600 million a year, so the proposal written by colleague Petr Dolínek - I am taking it back because he has withdrawn it, and I will sign up to all four amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u17	Thank you, Mr Jurečka, and Mr Třešňák will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u18	Thank you. I to this press, which I consider to be very important and essential for the future of our Czech energy and also whether we can open up space for the development of reasonable support here and the entire renewable sector, whether we are talking about photovoltaics or biogas and other possibilities, geothermal resources and so on, this amendment of the law is absolutely essential for this. It is essential not only for the question of dealing with, for example, those mistakes that have happened in the past, that is, 2009, 2010 in the area of very, let's say, unreasonablely set support, or generously, as you want. I understand that there is some solution here that the government has changed from the point of view of the key parameters of the law to the day that the law was discussed at the government's meeting. This was not done in the framework of an inter-ministerial commentary procedure, so that it would be discussed as a standard, calculated from the impact point of view. This is not entirely happy in terms of the whole legislative process, because it puts us here in the House in a very difficult situation, where somewhere between second and third reading, there will actually be some solution to the key parameter or one of the key parameters of this law, and that is the setting of the yield percentage, the so-called IRR, and the combination of the solar tax. I don't think he's happy. There was also the will of the deal before the second reading, so far it hasn't been done, we'll see. [[Nesroz.]] And there is also a great deal of room for the state to say not only to households, but also to companies that want to develop, invest in the energy sector, or to companies that want to have their net energy source for part of their consumption, for example on the roof or on the facade, so that they can say: We are not only counting on you in terms of investment, but we are ready to look for, for example, ways - rationally, I am stressing this here twice, reasonably set operating support, so that you can plan your business to make it predictable, readable, because as a state we care about dealing with climate change, reducing emissions, increasing the share of renewable resources, also addressing the issue of energy savings, all of which we are dealing with in the future here in this amendment. And it's very important now that we say to ourselves that we need to find a reasonable view here, open up the possibilities, and at the same time to those who have invested in it in the past, even though the state has made mistakes in how it set it up, and also to be able to send them a message that we can set the environment up with culture. We can remember their different business stories, including, for example, the different interest rates they took on investments in 2009, 2010, because not everyone had access to a low interest rate at the time. Not everyone has bought over the production plant in recent years and got back to the completely different cost of financing the investment. I have 12 amendments here, so I will try to review them briefly in this general debate, then I will report to them in detail in the debate. The amendment here addresses the issue of the current aid intensity for biogas, for example, when there is no valorisation. So here I propose an amendment that has two parts: the first possibility of valorisation of 2 per cent per year, or the second option, to assess the increase in operating input costs and to valorise the aid on the basis of an assessment of these input costs. Then I have two amendments relating to the very one mentioned and not entirely happy IRR, which is being debated here. I understand the effort by the state to come up with this and say: We want to reduce the level of support for resources implemented, put into operation in 2009 and 2010. To the solution proposed by the Minister here, and I understand that my colleague Pustějovskýějovský is presenting him here, that is, IRR is being dealt with by the interval, I would like to propose a solution to setting the IRR's clear value to the value of 9.5 and the solar tax - a solar tax that would increase precisely for those resources in 2009 and 2010, which would mean a certain income for the state budget between CZK 2.5 billion and 3 billion per year in the coming years. It's a solution that's predictable for the sector. Those who do business in it are able to see clearly what they can expect from the state for the future, what impact it will have on them. The state here in this balance can save money by having a higher solar tax collection. This is the solution that I think should and could be preferred. If this amendment could not succeed, then I would like to propose a second proposal that envisages setting the IRR interval in two bands: the first zone for resources such as water, wind, geothermal source, sun, that means photovoltaics. That's where the interval would be from 8.4 to 10.6. And the second interval that would count it, which would be for resources such as biomass, biogas, and there would be an interval of 9.5 to 10.6. Of course, a solar tax would be set in both of these variants, again for 2009 and 2010. And there would also be a so-called lower valve, which would guarantee that if the entity, after counting the solar tax, had dropped the yield percentage below 6.3, which is generally at that interval today, in what is reported as the lower limit, then it would have stopped at 6.3. That means the draft or the full amount of it wouldn't be realized. It seems to me to be a second possible solution, so that, again, for the business sector, there is at least some chance of a readable, acceptable variant from the state. Again, it generates revenue in the form of increased solar tax. Then I have here amendments concerning sustainability criteria. Then I have two proposals relating to the resolution of undue aid in order to increase the supervisory powers of the State, which could, in the event of unlawful aid being drawn, or that it would have a clear suspicion that an unauthorized drawdown is taking place here, have the possibility to stop the aid. It wouldn't be a delay, it wouldn't have happened that any of those business entities would have ended their business in the meantime and then it wasn't by whom to enforce it. Then I have here amendments relating to modernization, and that means parameters for the availability of heat. I understand that we need to push those manufacturers from the point of view that we want them to be more effective. We don't want them letting heat in here. We want them to prepare for the future, such as biogas on the gas system, to push those modernizations and those using biomass. So even this proposal is some compromise of the negotiations that have taken place here in the last month. I think it's fairly balanced. Then I have here an amendment concerning the establishment of maintenance aid for biogas, which also concerns the solution to small hydropower plants, which are in difficult situations precisely because in the past they have not always been ideally remembered in some time periods. [[16.50 hours]] I am already trying to speed things up, I see that there is pressure here from the point of view of having a different, firmly placed point at 17 o'clock, so I am not going to read here the detailed reasoning of all these amendments, even if they deserve it, because they are quite fundamental things. Then I have amendments concerning - and colleague Dolínek has already talked about it - to allow, and I repeat, to allow in the future, if one of the governments decides that he wants to offer a form of support and operational support for some producers in addition to investment support, the government can do so. It is not, in turn, a thing that threatens to overcompensate, because there is a mechanism that can add up the two aid rates and evaluate how the total amount is then paid. But let's face it, for some installations, it is easier and safer for those concerned to rely on a predictable, readable level of operating support. In addition, we also have experience when investment massive support comes, so in many cases it makes installation prices more expensive, because the companies know that they can raise some amount here. We have those experiences from other operational programs, other types of support, so I think that allowing the law to remember that is a step in the right direction. We remember the same thing in the case of photovoltaic power plants. I also place there a condition that such operating support, if I repeat, if any government uses it - it did not apply to future installations on high-quality bonita soils of the first and second class of protection of bonita soils, because here I think that these land, quality soil, are intended to serve agricultural production, food production, not that we stop them here with photovoltaic panels, which primarily belong on rooftops, belong to facades, for example, to landfills, to reclaimed landfills - there I can still understand it, but not on quality soil on Hana and Polabí. So this is also the way I'm heading my amendments. Well, I took the liberty of reducing it appropriately. I will sign up for them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u19	Thank you, we'll continue. Now, Mr Třešňák in the general debate, Mr Zahradník is ready. Please, Ambassador, I'll interrupt you in eight minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u20	Good afternoon. I will try to present four of my amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate, which is probably not going to happen. In the first proposal under number 8482 we actually complement the principle of technological neutrality within the same conditions and comparable environment of projects, respectively their output requirements for meeting the objectives of RED 2, because the fulfilment of binding objectives of the Czech Republic towards the requirements of the European Union will not be addressed in this draft law, as it is presented, only - or it is not addressed there and it is solved only - by one-sided drive from the biomass processing process in the biogas station into the energy distribution system. However, it is also very important to use not primarily purpose-grown biomass, but also waste biomass, such as renewable components in municipal waste, where synthesis gas is actually generated by the process of gasification, in this case the legislative process of plasma gasification in the Waste Act. And if this technology is mentioned in the above-mentioned Act as a supported technology with specific categories of use, it is logical that it should also become a supported technology under the Supported Resources Act. In the next proposal 8483 we propose to remove the proposed amendment, which is adopted under the amendment and which increases the minimum share of biofuels in diesel from the current 4.1 % to the proposed 8,8%, respectively. The minimum share of biofuels in motor gasoline during the calendar year is then proposed to increase from the current 2,9 to 7.6. This is precisely what the proposed increase in the share of biofuels of the first generation does not ensure the fulfilment of the mandatory targets of RED 2, because the increase in the share of biofuels of the first generation without other technologies, e.g. advanced biofuels, in fact, do not have relevant environmental benefits, does not guarantee sustainable use of energy from renewable sources, nor does it have sufficient emission savings and is not in line with the European Union's policy either. In another Amendment 8487, we are correcting the current confusion, where support for agrovoltaics should already work under the investment aid system, but the current legislation actually places the same requirements on it as on ordinary terrestrial photovoltaics, thereby practically preventing it. The proposal therefore does not allow the placing of agrovoltaic installations on agricultural land without the need for withdrawal from the agricultural soil fund. Agrovoltaic is actually innovative and in the world tested combined land use for agricultural purposes and at the same time electricity production. So further, in order to try to make it to the five, I will not describe it in detail, but I will get to the next Amendment 8515, which deals with several things, and that is the connection of small resources, respectively, so that distributors do not refuse to connect without proper justification. The next part deals with the sale of electricity to unused micro-sources, because more than 90 percent of newly installed resources have power over 10 kW and another increase, such as small photovoltaics, is expected in the near future, and the Czech legal system does not yet clearly solve whether unlicensed power plants such as small power plants, which are not connected to the so-called micro-source mode without overflows, can separately sell electricity surpluses to the electricity trader. In the next part of the same amendment, the right of the customer to withdraw from the supply contract as the owner of the micro-source is addressed. And I will also not describe in more detail, so I will sign up for this later in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u21	Thank you, and we still have three minutes, so I'll take Mr. Zahradník's microphone. If, of course, he doesn't bring it up, we interrupt him, his application doesn't fail, and he'll be the first performer when we get back to that point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u22	Hello. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have claimed that there will be more time for my contribution. So perhaps there will not be a detailed debate, and I can only say that I wanted to introduce you to the fact that ČEZ, the semi-state giant, where the state has a significant stake, has already started on the way to this energy. On Monday or 20 May he introduced his Vision 2030, the pure energy of tomorrow, so ČEZ is already going this way. The question is to what extent his measures are meaningful and whether they will not result in him actually telling citizens in 2030: We will leave coal, but you, citizens, get electricity where you want, we will meet the demands imposed on us by the European Commission and climate activists. I think that this is a path which, of course, can be criticised, on the other hand, I understand that our commitments are given. But we must not forget that energy, the heating industry also decides what costs citizens will incur for the purchase of electricity, for the purchase of heat. And in fact, four or maybe five million of our citizens are connected to central heat sources and one of the ideas that CEZ is trying to push through is actually a significant breakdown, a significant decentralization of our heating industry, a transition to some modular source, mostly probably gas. The question is how much this compares with the fact that, in addition to the reduction in carbon dioxide, ČEZ also wants to significantly reduce NOx emissions, and therefore how they want to meet this reduction and also use gas for heat production. [[17,00 hours]] There are things in that vision that can be found as visions of conflict, and I, if time comes for me in the next discussion, will talk very briefly about these clashes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u23	I must interrupt you at this moment. Of course, you'll be able to continue your performance when we get back to this point. For the record, I will note that Mr Ferjenčík is registered with a factual remark. I am now interrupting this point and we should focus on the point that is firmly placed at 17 o'clock, but before I open it, the chairman of the SPD Fiala is claiming with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the two members of Parliament, the ANO movement and the SPD movement, to propose that the Chamber of Deputies act and vote on all proposals, not only after 19 o'clock - because it is probably not about the law - but after 21 o'clock and after 24 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u25	Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to request clarification as to whether this is about the law. [[Member of the Fiala: No, elections.]] So it's supposed to be purely that we're going to negotiate today after 19th, 21st and 24th hours, but not necessarily about the laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u26	I'll explain. It's not about the law. At 6:00 p.m., the elections are firmly placed, and we would like to see the elections come to an end. That is, because this is not a law, we do not need to vote on negotiations and voting after 19 o'clock, but we would like to ask, on behalf of two members of the ANO movement and the SPD movement, to negotiate and vote on these matters in a territorial manner - I repeat, this is not a law - even after 21 and 24 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-005-011.u27	Okay. There is therefore a proposal for us to act today and vote after 21 and 24 hours. To be sure, I will note that according to settled rules, the day of the hearing therefore ends the next morning. I hear you're all logged out. I will wait for the situation in the room to calm down and all Members will be present. For those who have arrived only now, I will repeat that there is a procedural proposal for us to negotiate and vote today on matters other than those of the law after 21st and 24th hours. Mrs Brzobohatá will vote with replacement voting card number 23. Looks like the number of applicants has stabilized. I believe everyone knows what we are going to vote on, and I have also noted no counterproposal. So I guess there's nothing stopping me from starting the vote. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 179. 128 Members registered, for 91, against 36. The motion has been approved. I'll go on then. So now it's our turn to point.
