ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u1	1. Government draft law on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and on the amendment of certain related laws /German press 1158/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, Minister, take the floor. So please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the draft law on emergency measures for the COVID-19 epidemic. I'm not going to go into detail here about his genesis, because it's one of the most media-based events of the last few days. Let me just say that I would like to thank both my colleagues and the representatives of the opposition immensely for the constructive and very useful action that ultimately led to a consensus on its content. The purpose of the proposal is to provide adequate tools for managing the disease epidemic, even in the post-emergency period. The current legislation in the Public Health Protection Act appears to be insufficient in this regard when it allows the Ministry of Health to issue emergency measures in the event of epidemics or the risk of their emergence, but its legal definition does not allow it to respond to the specifics of the current epidemic in the current situation to the extent necessary. That is why, even after negotiations with the opposition, we have agreed to amend the Government's proposal by adding a number of important points. I will therefore, in particular, comment on a joint proposal to amend the Government's bill. The proposal first anchors the state of the so-called pandemic emergency, which is linked to the entry into force of this law, but contains the authority of the Chamber of Deputies to end this situation or re-initiate it. Extraordinary measures will be applied at the level of each region in the discretion of the relevant regional sanitary station, if necessary in the territory of several regions or nationwide then their release to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There's also cooperation with the captains. In the case of ministerial measures, these will then be subject to government control. Therefore, they will not be arbitraryly declared only by the Ministry and the measures will be reviewed and revised at regular intervals according to the current epidemiological situation, after about two weeks. The change in the government's proposal also extends the scope of published information on the epidemic and its progress and the modeling of its development. One of the main shifts of the parties to the content of the bill is the incorporation of procedures for compensation for damage caused in connection with exceptional measures under this bill and the Act on the Protection of Public Health. We are aware that this is a sensitive issue that deserves a solution and a reasonable approach both on the part of the state and on the part of the people concerned, and I am glad that after longer discussions we have finally reached an acceptable and reasonable compromise. Among other things, an adjustment was also made to the penalty mechanisms when there was more stratification of the offences and their corresponding sanctions in order to best match the material content of the offences and the nature of the subject who might have committed them. Furthermore, by changing the government's proposal, we anchor accelerated negotiations on the abolition of emergency measures by the Supreme Administrative Court in order to ensure swift and effective control of the government and by judicial authority. We were also aware of the unfortunate consequences in the criminal field, where the commission of certain offences in the context of an emergency situation led, in particular, to minor thefts and, similarly, to the disproportionate consequences of the parties imposing punishment for these negotiations. This is what we are now trying to adjust so that there is no draconian impact. The proposal also contains a change to some related laws. Let me mention, in particular, the amendment of the Act on the application of the State Physical Reserves Administration, when we regulate the issue of the implementation of the provision of state reserves. The Act on the Protection of Public Health, in which we supplement the necessary regulation concerning the operation of mobile applications, where we include eRouse in a pan-European tracking system, which I consider to be an important step and also to meet the requirements of the Czech Republic by the European Union. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me once again thank you all for the constructive approach to this proposal, and I hope that we will be able to approve it together in the text of the prepared amendment. I consider this solution essential for an effective fight against the current epidemic of COVID-19 disease, and therefore I politely ask you to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u3	The Committee on Health, to which the Government's bill was ordered by the President's decision, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 1158/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Vlastimil Válek, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal within the committee and justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to briefly read the resolution of the Health Committee, when the Health Committee decided by voting that it recommended to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to interrupt the discussion of the Government Act on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and the wording of some related laws, the House press 1158, pending the conclusion of this proposal by representatives of all political parties. The second point was that we propose - or proposes a health committee to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to hold a general debate on the bill, III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill, IV. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic to end its negotiations on the bill by Thursday 18 February 2021 at the latest until 19.00, V. empowers the rapporteur of the committee of Members - I will shorten it - Vlastimil Válek to inform the committee's opinion to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies - which I did; and VI. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of Members, profesor MUDr. Vlastimil Válek, etc., in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to carry out appropriate legislative technical adjustments. This is the whole resolution for which the majority of the health committee voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u5	This was the rapporteur and we will now decide whether we will have a general debate. So I will call the Members to the Chamber because there will be a vote. [[It's a delay.]] I slyšet ťukání, Mr. Ferjenčík. So, I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. So we will vote and decide whether to hold a general debate. I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 10, 137 Members registered, for 135, against 1. The motion was accepted. So I am opening up a general debate. So now, with priority rights, the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala, followed by the opinion of the KDU-ČSL club, Member Marek Výborný and then the order you see at... then the chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek with priority rights, these are all priority rights so far. So the chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the SPD movement is the only political party or movement in the Chamber of Deputies that has not agreed with the government coalition and the rest of the opposition on this pandemic law. To explain this correctly, let me say something else about the emergency situation, which, of course, is very relevant. The SPD movement of the six attempts supported the emergency situation only in the first case, otherwise we always voted against. We voted against because, in our view, the government does not control the epidemic. She started with Semafor, then it was PES, then it was tracing, then it was a vaccination strategy and so on, we still don't have vaccines. This means that, in our view, this whole strategy of managing the epidemic was useless, and all that is left of it is total bans. Flat bans, flat-rate measures that destroy the Czech economy, which destroy people, their incomes, the economic income of those people. We believe that the socio-economic effects on the whole of society can be even greater in the future than those of health. That's why we wanted to cancel the emergency so we wouldn't give the government a blank check, so the government would think about it and change the strategy to fight the epidemic. We certainly don't want any chaos or anarchy, but the government didn't. The government again - all it wants is an emergency or something. And basically, the pandemic law we're going to talk about today is a overturned emergency. This is even better than an emergency situation for the government, because we in the Chamber of Deputies have decided on an emergency situation after 30 days, today the House, if you adopt the pandemic law, will not decide anything. One person will decide, the Minister will decide, maybe he'll have the government consecrate it, but that'll be all. This means that this pandemic law is to circumvent parliamentary democracy. The SPD movement suggested that the Chamber of Deputies should comment on this after 14 days. Of course, this proposal was not incorporated into the pandemic law. And we didn't want to after 30 days, because 30 days is an emergency. So this, the pandemic law, is a matter that suits the government, the minister, perhaps the opposition, the captains, and everyone else much more than an emergency. That was the first point that we wanted him to be integrated, a check, a vote in the House after 14 days. If it was after 30, it'd be a overturned emergency. Furthermore, we wanted to be compensated, not compensation, in the pandemic law. Damage compensation is applied only ex post, but we wanted, if the government declares measures under the pandemic law, that immediately, at that time, compensation should be declared for people who simply, on the basis of the announcement of the general measures that the government will take, or the Minister, who lost the opportunity to do business, who lost their incomes, maybe today even their companies. That wasn't worked either. Finally, the coalition agreed with the rest of the opposition on some kind of compensation that we cannot agree with. And thirdly, our request was that a justification be written directly in that law. Reason why the government is taking action. For example, I would like to know why the government is taking general measures today when they clearly do not work when the numbers of the infected are increasing. So that's the right strategy to fight pandemics? So we're gonna strangle, strengthen the surface measures until there's nothing left. So let's conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, for the SPD movement, the pandemic law and the pandemic emergency are equal to an emergency, and it is even worse in terms of parliamentary democracy, because you will not be able to comment on it anymore. The last sentence I'm going to say here is that the SPD will definitely not support the pandemic law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u7	Now, with priority rights, the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club, Mr Marek Výborný, will be prepared by the chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek. Mr Marek Výborný reported to me a moment ago with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club. He's not present? You're on your way. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u8	I apologise, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members. I would like to present the opinion of the KDU-ČSL on this anti-pandemic law. Let me start with a little sigh - and I know here I would weep on the wrong grave, because it really has nothing to do with Minister Blatný, but with his predecessors, because we are here now, if I am not mistaken, received this bill in May. However, after that justified criticism, the House law did not do so by the will of the opposition, but actually by the will of the government, the majority of the government, did not deal with it at all. As the pandemic COVID-19 develops dynamically and not entirely happily, it turns out that we really must have some tools to manage the whole pandemic crisis and that, from our point of view, this cannot be an emergency situation under all circumstances. Of course, and here I am speaking for us, there can be situations - we do not wish them - that there will be nothing left but that, despite this, I hope, after today's defined pandemic state it will be necessary to move to an emergency state. We don't want it, but there has to be a legislative framework here, those restrictions for the government, for the Ministry of Health, so that they can effectively fight the pandemic so that we can deal with it. This is not a favourite of the opposition, it is no favourite of anyone else, or of the Minister, at least I think so, but it is a clear instrument created by legislative limits on what measures, under what circumstances and with which control - this is very important - the Minister of Health, or the Government or sanitary stations, as will also be supplemented, what steps he can take and implement. What I want to stress - and here I would also like to express my thanks to the Minister, the Prime Minister and the Government. It turns out that when you want to, you can do it. The negotiations were not quite simple, but I am happy for the KDU-ČSL and for the coalition of the SOPO that we have reached a reasonable consensus. We have been very constructive about these negotiations, I think, like the whole opposition. I'm talking about fellow pirát and STAN. We submitted a set of comments. Because the original proposal - here I will again be a little critical of the Minister - because the original proposal essentially copied the proposal, except for minor changes, which has been here for ten months. I would have expected that, even before the government filed the proposal, it would have worked to settle the legitimate comments that were made here a year ago, ten months ago - and then we repeatedly demanded the preparation of crisis legislation -. I didn't. However, with common forces in cooperation mainly with the five opposition parties and with the Minister, we have come to the result, which is correct from our point of view, is justified, and most importantly, there are some things that have been said here repeatedly from the mouth of my previous speakers falsely. I don't want to judge whether it's because of ignorance or whether it's intent. I'm really going to put that aside. However, what needs to be clearly said: The measures that are precisely defined there in Section 2, so the Minister of Health must have, first, publicly speaking, subsequently consecrated by the government. At the same time, at the initiative of the opposition, parliamentary scrutiny must be ensured here. In other words, if anyone says we're creating a pandemic state here forever and ever, it's just not true. The pandemic state, as defined in this bill, is limited - he said so here too, the Minister - is really limited to the current situation with COVID-19 disease. And all of us, as we are here, the House as a sovereign will, on the basis of that amendment, be given the authority to abolish the pandemic situation or the pandemic emergency at any time by its resolution. At the same time, it must be said that the original proposal contained a provision that is unconstitutional. This means that it is not possible to delegate the Constitution's law, it is not possible to require most of all Members to cancel, or it will be the simple standard majority as it should be. So that's one important thing. Parliamentary control to be maintained in this respect. We're all aware of that. Ladies and gentlemen, if we approve this bill, the Senate will approve it, the President will sign it, he will start to pay, so it is up to us, I suppose, on the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Health or the Government, we will talk about ending the pandemic state. Of course, we do not have to wait for the government in this sense. If we, as the House, as the body that, from the standpoint of the Constitution, is here a supervisory authority towards the government, then we have the opportunity to resolve at any time and end the situation. With all the consequences it will bear. This means repealing those measures which would be granted under the law, but also, for example, the termination of the possibility of seeking compensation. This is another important thing that was really crucial to us as a coalition of the SPOLU. That's why the meetings went on until this morning. And once again, we have reached a consensus, a solution that we, as the opposition, have been involved in. Finally, the government answered - I thank the expert apparatus of the representatives of the three ministries, the interior, health care and finance, which contributed to the final text, when, unlike the crisis law, where the interpretation of the government is somewhat different, as well as from the standard state here, it will be possible in a relatively simple way through - and this will already be the matter of some other interpretation regulations - to ask the Ministry of Finance electronically for compensation for the damage caused as a result of the measures declared pursuant to this law, in Section 2. One thing that seems very logical to me is that it is not possible to count the costs of providing disinfectants, protective equipment, into the school's compensation. That seems very reasonable to me. First of all, there's a VAT deduction here, that's one thing. The second thing is that every citizen has to deal with whether he's a businessman or whether he's a natural person. We just buy respirators, we have to buy disinfectant. It doesn't usually go anywhere yet. That would be a different debate, a different discussion. But in this sense, I think that this provision that has been delivered there is entirely justified, and we do not have a problem with it. At the same time, the important mechanism is created here in case the State, in this case the Ministry of Finance, refused to pay the damage, so it is possible, of course, to refer to the court - who else? - and the court decides whether or not the state should act in that sense. Well, that's another important thing. I would mention the third, and that is an information duty. If anyone here is worried that we won't be informed here about the actions the government is taking, the Minister of Health, then the law requires him to inform the government about the individual measures. What is more, they must inform about the impact of these measures. Whether they are effective or not effective, if any measures should then be repealed or replaced by other measures. This was, and is justified, a complaint about the government's progress so far that these measures are not justified. So is the court's complaint. If you look at some of the judgments of the Municipal Court in Prague, it was one of the arguments of the very fundamental ones. The government, the ministry, doesn't work to justify the measures, and that concludes with the adoption of the pandemic law. Because if we move in a state of pandemic emergency, by law, the Minister has a duty to make the various measures clear. It's written there. Now, I'm not gonna tell you that paragraph, but the law isn't long. Anyone can look into it. dáma and gentlemen, so much for the KDU-ČSL. I do not want to talk any longer because we consider this law important and we would like to see a consensus and approval for the following, further steps. Once again, thank you for the cooperation that has brought us to this conclusion, and I believe that we will actually approve the pandemic situation that will enable us to fight effectively - I want to stress this - to fight the pandemic effectively without having to operate here in an emergency mode in time. [[12.50 hours]] In conclusion, I would like to take the initiative not so much towards the Minister of Health as to the Government and to the Minister of the Interior. What I consider to be crucial is also very intense, reaching some final outcome and consensus over crisis legislation, understanding the constitutional law on state security and the crisis law, because no one can rule out that there will be nothing left for the government in the coming days and weeks except to look for other instruments beyond the pandemic state, and in that case we should be prepared for it. So I'm repeating something I've been saying for the last ten, eleven months, but I'd be happy to hear it on this microphone, too. So much for the KDU-ČSL club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u9	Mr Milan Brázdil is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond technically to two previous speakers. Please, it's not a pandemic law. The pandemic is wider and affects continents. It's called an emergency epidemic. It means in the Czech Republic, in Moravia, in Silesia. He's only dealing with COVID-19. If there is another epidemic, this law will not be valid. I just wanted to make it more clear so you don't get it wrong, but I think you know what you're talking about. But that's just the way it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u11	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Jiří Kobza. Mr. Marek Výborný is also reporting with de facto effect? Yes, so they'll be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The law basically resembles the precedent of the French road, when after less than two years of emergency in France, they adjusted the laws so that the emergency became a normal state. I can't shake the impression that this new law is going in the same direction, and that's something I can't relate to. So we're not really gonna support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u13	Now with a factual remark, Mr Marek Výborný, so far the last factual one. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. I thank my colleague Brázdil by your means. I'm not gonna deal with terminology. Of course, as a doctor, you're right. Sorry about that. But the important thing - you said it and I want to stress it: indeed, the law is here only for the disease situation COVID-19. Yes? Nothing else. That means if anyone says we're gonna have this law here forever and ever, that's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. I received the requested opinion of the legislative department, the interpretation of the word "preferably" pursuant to § 109m para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It's ten sentences. I think I'll cut it short. Yes, it is stipulated in the Rules of Procedure that: The President of the House shall immediately convene a meeting of the House. If a meeting of the House is already held, the examination of the proposal shall preferably be included on its agenda. The purpose of the word "preferably" is for the House to discuss a proposal pursuant to § 109m para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Ideally, the meeting should start first or one of the first points. For example, if a meeting has several hundred points, this provision should ensure that the proposal is not discussed after a number of points have expired. If the 86th meeting of the House has only three points and if the proposal has been voted by the House as point 4, it is not an ideal situation, but the discussion of this proposal is real in the House's current day. We also conclude that the 86th meeting can take place in the case of proposals in a legislative emergency, points 1 to 3 of the meeting, as well as in the case of a motion to abolish an emergency situation without voting by the House, only under Section 53 para. 1 even after the 19th, 21th and 24th hours, until the expiry of the date of the hearing, that is until the following day until 9pm. Since another meeting is being convened tomorrow at 9 p.m. tomorrow, the 86th meeting would have to be suspended. In conclusion, although the inclusion of a motion to abolish an emergency as item 4 of the 86th agenda is not ideal, we do not consider it to be such a violation of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure Act in question, which should lead to the revision of the previous vote and the inclusion of this item at the beginning of the meeting. I've only read it, I'll leave the evaluation to everyone who's heard it. Now with a point of fact, Mr Marek Výborný. Please, two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I don't know if it's kosher to take a de facto comment on your own performance. But I forgot one important thing. Colleagues, colleagues, the Pandemic Law area, for the treaty, have also been created by the captains. This is very important to recall. We, as a KDU-ČSL MP, will also support Mr Vondrák's amendment, which is an amendment for the entire Association of Regions, if I say so correctly. It also mentions key field players who are struggling with pandemics at the level of the regions, and where, of course, there must be some set mechanism towards the region, municipalities with extended scope, regional sanitation stations. I think that this is important and what has been presented through Mr Vondrák deserves support. I say again, they were eventually captains, along with the government, who created this space for us to come to today's consensus. I thank them for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u17	Now with priority rights Chairman of the Pirates Club Jakub Michálek. Just, Mr President, let me point out that I will be putting out a break at 13:00. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement on the pandemic law is a major shift towards getting away from the endless extension of the emergency situation towards a more normal life. This was succeeded only because after four months of extension of the emergency situation, a majority was found in the House, which no longer wanted to prolong it and wanted to change the management of the pandemic within the Czech Republic. The Pirates and STAN sent the bill to the Ministry on 20 January, and we managed to achieve a major shift in the negotiations. While it is true that the law was to be adopted in March of last year, then in June, then in September, and we have not been able to accept it until now, in this of course there is some criticism of the government, on the other hand it is still better to do so now that we are in danger of further extension of the emergency situation and we do not have another regime that is adequate to cope with the situation. So it is not the end of democracy, it is the application of methods, laws that are common in other Western states and are parametrically consistent with the arrangement that we have agreed. As part of this proposal by the Pirates and STAN coalition, the law, in cooperation with other colleagues, in particular from the SPOLU coalition, would be discussed and accepted at all, because it was certainly not a matter of course. Let us remember that the law has been here for a very long time since the Ministry of Health presented it last year in a completely inadequate form. However, the law is really needed, because otherwise there would be massive dislodgement, unnecessary deaths and damage to health. Secondly, the government has complied with our proposal to allow compulsory testing in companies that are vital for limiting the spread of the virus. Thirdly, the damage, especially the tradesmen, will be entitled to compensation for actual damage, which does not include loss of profit, which the government categorically refused, but at the same time does not understand the damage to things. According to the case law of the Constitutional Court, the actual damage may include the costs incurred. These will not be paid only in the case of the costs of obtaining disinfection. Fourth, we have managed to enforce the proportion of the upper limit of fines for one-off violation of the obligation to carry a drape outside the medical facility to CZK 30,000 from the original CZK 100,000, in order to correspond to a fine of CZK 30,000 for the offence of battery. Fifthly, the Minister of Health does not really become a dictator; his measures will be subject to government approval. The government will be obliged to review all measures every two weeks, to report on the measures to the Chamber of Deputies. The House will have insurance that it will be able to shut down the pandemic emergency if the government misuses its authorizations or if we manage the pandemic. The law is limited in time until the end of February 2022. Members and senators will receive information on the pandemic within a short period of time. Six, every measure will be reviewed by the court. We pushed for a quicker review, so the Supreme Administrative Court will assess the measures issued by the Ministry of Health. There's gonna be a prior hearing, there's gonna be a real quicker justice. The government will have an explicit obligation to justify measures, including an epidemiological model and intervention in citizens' rights. [[13.00 hours]] Seventhly, we have also got some other improvements to the law, which may seem secondary to the fundamental direction, but I think that this state should not forget anyone who is in a difficult situation and may suffer from insufficient legislation. We have been given such a provision that there will be no tightening of the sentence, in quotation marks, for stolen rolls during emergency conditions only if there is a link to pandemic and its management in the Czech Republic, so that prisons are not filled with long sentences. There will also be a ban on covering up the gatherings, which means when people are legally demonstrating without drapes today and gather and there is a risk of spreading pandemics, so it is completely legal, because this provision is in the assembly law for incomprehensible reasons. It will now be an obligation to reveal in quotation marks only at the call of the competent authority of the police or self-government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u19	I'll just give you a heads-up. I'll give you a minute, just tell me how long you've been seeing it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u20	I'll end it if I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u21	Okay, I want to be helpful, just a second.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u22	Let me sum it up very briefly. There is another provision - allowing access to study materials. And the government itself has a number of important changes for which it is worth approving this law. Of course, this will not solve all the problems, it is only a legal framework for the government to handle the situation better and we have not yet had an emergency. Pandemic emergency is significantly lower than emergency, as free movement cannot be restricted during such a situation - e.g. curfew - and it is not possible to order forced labour and to make other significant interventions in citizens' rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u23	That was the pirát' show. I'm declaring a lunch break. I just point out that, according to the agreement of the MPs, we start at 14:00, not at 14:30 as usual. So we'll continue at 14 o'clock. I would also like to inform the members of the Organizing Committee that the Organizing Committee will begin immediately. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u24	Good afternoon, honourable Members, Minister. I don't see any other members of the government here yet. We will continue to negotiate after lunch break, returning to the Government's Bill on Emergency Measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, including some related laws. We are in a general debate. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur for their position. In the debate in order, because I have no comment here that anyone would exercise the right of priority, is Mr Václav Klaus. I'll give him my word right now. A colleague Ivo Vondrák is registered after him. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u25	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I am here to deliver the opinion of the Tricolore on the pandemic law, or on the Emergency Measures Act in the COVID-19 epidemic, as you called it. Our position is based on the fact that we're rejecting an area lockdown. We reject the area lockdown and refuse to call the emergency situation another name. This pandemic law is nothing more than a new name for an emergency, which without it we already have about six types. To be honest, when I watch this whole debate and the situation that is in Czech society, I must say that I am much closer to the position of Minister Hamáček, who defends the large-scale lockdown, it is based on some of his opinions. I deeply disagree with him, we always vote against it, but he says things the way he thinks he does, and so does he. On the other hand, the overwhelming part of our opposition is merely playing political hypocritical games. I've seen ODS MPs here who vote against emergency status on Thursdays, their captains are asking on Saturdays to keep the emergency situation in check, and on Monday, they're threatening that the emergency situation is unconstitutional. If I translate it into Czech, Thursday they have no opinion of the emergency, but they feel it would be good to be angry with Prime Minister Babiš, so they vote against the emergency. On Saturday, he'll be terrified to let the Prime Minister handle it, the situation that they won't be dealing with. And on Monday, people call them names, so they're desperate to find a way out of it, and they're gonna figure out that if it goes to the Constitutional Court, they can point to someone else, and they're gonna stay off the hook. The exact same situation is on the side of Pirate and others. I must say that this is an attitude that I find outrageous, because pandemics are just played by power political games. Tricolor's opinion is that we don't need another law. We have several emergency and emergency laws. According to them, the government has been shutting down the entire country for a year. Now he's gonna use another law on this new emergency. So the last thing anyone would miss is another legislation that forbids anyone. The pandemic law we're discussing today has been here since March. It hasn't changed much, so it's no response to the current situation. So what's obvious is that the pirát and ODS are becoming a member of a large lockdown coalition with government parties. It's their attitude, well, they're trying to put the quadrature of the circle in order to keep it out of sight at the same time as they did, so now they're using this pandemic law to say we're against the emergency situation, but now we're going to support something where there's tens of thousands of fines for citizens, other draconian restrictions to defend it. I find it extremely hypocritical. However, we still have the king of all the hypocrites, and that, of course, is Tomio Okamura, who here constantly claims that he is the only one fighting against the flat lockdown. First, the Tricolor movement voted six times against the emergency situation, we defend that children belong to school, people belong to work. We even offered our signatures for the constitutional suit of the SPD movement, we offered our signatures for a special meeting, but the result was - no. Because this isn't about canceling an emergency. It's just that some of our Vice-Presidents here are beating each other in the breasts, that they're the only ones defending it. So you also want to maintain an emergency, you also want to preserve the European Union. [[It points to the SPD benches.]] Well, now I'm showing you the wrong way. I don't think that's what SPD members mean, but your generality. That's really hypocrisy on the nth. I don't know if it's gonna be another tower near the villa panel, or if it's not gonna end up, but it's a sad report on the state of Czech politics. Here, Mr Okamura may have broken into a counter to distance himself from the Volný Member, who says exactly the same things at heart. So our position is that the government can't handle the situation. I don't think a blockdown is the answer. And the rest of the standard opposition is a bunch of hypocrites, and I guess that republic has to fall to an even deeper bottom to make a difference. So the Trikolóra will in no way support this pandemic law, it considers it to be lying to citizens, just another name for an emergency. But I didn't come here today to criticize the government, which, of course, is in a difficult role, but rather the political games that many of the quasi-opinion here are playing along with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr Václav Klaus. And before I give the floor to Mr Ivo Vondrák, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Vít Kaňkovský from this afternoon's meeting. Mr Ivo Vondrák is now in the debate. Lubomír Volný will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to speak here with my amendment, which responds to the approved COVID-19 Act. I admit it's been a year since we've actually been fighting what's around us. It's not at all easy, because, of course, emergency situations have to be addressed last year, emergency situations this year. Meanwhile, the emergency conditions were over, there was some sort of vacuum, and that is what led me to prepare this proposal, which I also presented to the generals who are involved in solving the COVID-19 pandemic. I wanted to agree to have something at our disposal to complement the bill submitted, the role of the captains, because this part of the proceedings is missing in the law. And she's necessary. It's just been showing up over the past year how much we've had to do and do. So, to be perfectly precise, there were objections. The key thing is that we think that maybe the law shouldn't just be set up on COVID-19. But I understand you're back here in It is critical to the House that it should only be on COVID-19, so we will probably not be having a wider discussion here in this and we will move on to what I think is important in this law so that we can effectively prove, within the regional authorities, in this process of managing, the crisis management of the epidemic, so that we can enter it. So the amendment has four key points in total. The first point concerns that the captains must be informed of changes in the form of various emergency measures, whether they are set up or cancelled. Let me give you an example. If schools are to be discussed, the regions must ensure appropriate changes in transport. If schools are closed, we have to go to the summer regime, on the contrary, when schools open, we have to go back to the normal regime. And that's a thing that's not easy at all, and above all, it's not cheap at all. That is why I think we should get to this information, and that is why my team and I have formulated this point as very important. [[14.10 hours]] Two. The implementation of emergency measures concerns a number of different institutions, bodies, whether they are administrative offices, legal persons, natural persons. And it is true that without the entry of the region, the leadership of the region, the commander in coordination of these provisions is not at all... or, I say it wrong - it is essential for us to bring these extraordinary measures into our lives. The question of how to do this is confirmed here by the mechanism we have in the crisis law, in an emergency state, these are the crisis crews. That is why we want, at point three, to be able to establish such crisis crews and use them to manage the situation and coordinate it. I consider it necessary again, because there are, of course, representatives of health facilities, an integrated rescue system. There are representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, the matters that are being discussed there, actually relating to the entire life in the region. And the last, fourth point is that, of course, we also have municipalities with extended scope, which then also have to carry out these tasks, and we want to be able, in essence, to pass on these tasks to them and to negotiate with them on their implementation. So I'm putting these four points on the table for some sort of comprehensive amendment that I'd like us to agree on here. I am glad to hear that the opposition parties are ready to support this. I see it very positively, because covid, ladies and gentlemen, is uncooperative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u28	I thank Mr Ivo Vondrák. Mr Lubomír Volný now enrolled. [[Comments on the missing cloak.]] Ambassador, I must remind you, too, that you do not respect the government's orders that you do not have a mask or any other protection of your nose and mouth. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u29	I understand you, Mr President, I refer to an exception to the government regulation. I'll start with a brief summary of what was said here in some of the previous performances. The first thing I will return to is the opinion of the best of the best Czech statistics, who have repeatedly expressed themselves in the media space, that this government does not act on the basis of real information and relevant data, but only on the basis of emotions, feelings, impressions and wishes. And on the basis of emotions, impressions, feelings, and wishes, this law arose, in the best case. Because if there is only some emotion behind the creation of this law, some fear, some desire, or some impression, it would be just one of the many bad laws that arose in the history of this House, and which in some way have adversely affected Czech citizens, such as the approval of the Treaty of Lisbon, the church restitution approved by the prisoners, the execution law that murdered a lot of people in the Czech Republic, because they have gotten into such a desperate situation that they have touched their lives. Even these laws have been passed here in this House. Not this House, but here in this House. So, in many ways, this House has been through a lot of stupid, but also bloody laws. And if it's just a law that's actually created according to these statistics because someone has succumbed to some emotions, wishes, and impressions, it's okay. It would be worse if it were the way I think it was created to order some global forces that are going to do something called a global reset, and they need to create social conditions throughout the civilized world, including the Czech Republic. How did I come to believe that? I read the law, and I missed a few things. Today I learned that the law is 100% not planned for any disease other than COVID-19 and that it is 100% not planned to be amended in the future and to add some new diseases and such matters. That is why we have prepared amendments on our Free Bloc team to work with it. So if you want to convince the voters, keep your face in front of them, and assure them that this law will never change in the future to a law that would be exploitable against them, because there will be amendments to add different new diseases or that law will apply forever, so please support our amendments, which are all under number 7532 in the system, and restrict those laws, or those amendments restrict the validity of this law at the end of March, at the end of April, at the end of May, June, July, August and September. You can choose any one this month and you can limit the validity of this law until this month. Meanwhile, the epidemiological situation will somehow continue in the Czech Republic within the framework of this law, which you will approve, the whole Republic already knows that you have agreed and that you will simply approve it. But you will also send a signal that there will be some kind of re-evaluation, that we will be sitting here again in two, three, four, five months, or before the election, whether the law was successful or not. And here I am asking you to do exactly what Mr Stanjura asked you to do in accordance with your parliamentary pledge, in the interests of this people, in accordance with your best knowledge and conscience. Do you want this law to help fight the covid epidemic in the Czech Republic? Okay, well, do whatever it takes to make sure people don't worry about the law being abused in the future. One of our other amendments is that this law will only apply to COVID-19 disease. This means that no future amendments will be attributed to Covidy 21, Covidy 35 or any other infectious disease and that the law will have to be renegotiated because this law will be the law of lex COVID-19. Again, if personal resentment or orders of your global partners or superiors do not prevent you from doing so, I do not see the slightest reason not to at least think about it, because you have publicly declared here that this is really a law only because of COVID-19. Please support the amendments that I will read later in the detailed debate, calm the public down. Let's set an optimal date, I understand that March, April is early for you, but in May or June, we'll know whether this law works or doesn't work. Limit its validity. That's point number one. And secondly, guarantee people that this law will only be for COVID-19 and will never be used for any other infection in the future, which people fear, in some possible amendment. Those are the reasons that would calm me down, and bet you're at least hundreds of thousands, if not even millions of your potential voters, that you're serious. I have read the law, and I have not been able to draw up an amendment that would also talk about prevention. Please, could someone please calculate how many times the word "prevention" has been heard at this table in the context of the COVID-19 debate from a different mouth than from the mouth of Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojek? How many times has that been said? If there's a colleague who's staying here or a colleague, I can see one. This is a word about prevention. And prevention isn't just a mask, it's a mechanical barrier that can and may not work. I'd like to say that today, in Sweden, cities forbid wearing drapes, it's official information on NBC's conspiracy website, I think. So Swedish cities forbid the wearing of drapes because they believe that the more drapes, the more covid. [[14.20 hours]] But who said anything about prevention? Who said anything about sending vitamin D to our endangered group, sending vitamin C to our endangered group? That we would really launch a public discussion about Isoprinosin or about Ivermectin, which you mocked me about last time, and today is officially used as a covid cure in Slovakia? How many times have we talked about this? How many panel discussions were there? How much was going on here, how many conferences were there on this subject? How to help a endangered group, how to save it, how to cut 184 billion out of that pie and send something for 20, 30, 40, 50, 100, billion to those people in that endangered group. Something that really helps them. Vitamin D, which is known to be inadequate blood levels, has been found in virtually everyone who had a difficult course of COVID-19 or died from it. Vitamin C, which is known to be systematically used intravenously in China directly for the treatment of coronavirus. I'll give you specific doctors' names and give you specific contacts. How many seminars have been held on this subject? Some of you listen to me and some of you don't, but we all know it's zero. The seminar on how to raise their natural immunity to people in a vulnerable group so that, for example, Mr Michálek, through Mr President, does not have to worry about his grandmother, neither of them has happened here. Neither. And I am convinced that if the word "prevention" in the sense of increasing immunity was spoken from more mouths than from the mouth of Lubomír Volný and Marian Bojek, then maybe it was somehow one or two people who disproved our opinions, although, as I say, last time you mocked me about Ivermectin and today it is officially used in Slovakia to treat COVID-19. It's not there, and until it's there, I can't believe you're serious about this fight with COVID-19. On the contrary, I think it suits many here. Why? Because there was an article on the next conspiracy American website that got the most rich on the covid. And it's just like all the conspiracy theorists said. The biggest and richest gets the most rich on the covid. They multiplied their assets in trillions of dollars. In trillions of dollars. Who made the most money on covid in the Czech Republic? Has the Prime Minister said he shouldn't be here because he's supposed to be quarantined, how many covid tests are going through companies that are commercially or personnelly connected to Agrofert? Public accusations have been made that the Prime Minister controls 75 percent of all tests within the Czech Republic. I don't know, I really only have 60% attendance. Would someone please raise your hand and tell me if the Prime Minister ever answered that question? Did he answer her, or did he just sit there and say nothing? Who got rich on covid in the Czech Republic? Are we ever gonna find out from the I.C.O. Who did the 87 200 million? Let's set a limit of CZK 10 million, and let's say if the amounts are above CZK 10 million, know where the I.C.O. went, who got rich on the covid. He's not in a conflict of interest, he's not in a state of emergency, he's not pursuing the new law, because he's getting a lot richer because his little and medium competition is leaving and he's becoming dominant? Where are the pirate efforts to protect the small and medium? Where are the ODS and TOP 09 efforts to protect those small and medium-sized ones? I don't see them anywhere. That you'd give them some compensation or a few crowns, keep it quiet, and if they took it, they'd be threatened with a fine of up to 4 million crowns? That's the 21st century's regular terror. That's soft totalitarianism. You leave them no choice. How many billions have gone to companies from 184 or 187 - now I'm getting involved - in companies that are personnel or business-related to Agrofert? Who here has become the most rich in the Czech Republic? Forbes magazine knows it globally. Will we in the Czech Republic find out? There is no COVID-19 pandemic in Russia, Belarus and Cuba. Any emergency measures are terminated there. Russia, Belarus, and Cuba are known for sending their doctors to the affected countries with great joy, unlike the US, not for a 14-day vacation, but for real treatment and assistance in those affected countries. We had two field hospitals here that we allegedly didn't have personnel in, and we poured 184 billion crowns into the economy. How many billion crowns would it cost to help Russian, Belarusian or Cuban doctors? Has the government ever asked for this? The pirát would be able to save Mr. Grandma - what's her name, I forgot... well, Vice President, Chairman, Pirates Ferjen Club... no, that's different. [[A clue from the O.R.]] Mr. Michálek. Mr. Michálek through the Prime Minister, do you mind if your grandmother was saved by a Russian, Belarusian or Cuban doctor? Then can you answer me? Do you mind? Would anyone mind in this room if Russians, Belarusians, and Cuban doctors for money - for money, because they export them to the world as their business item - if they were saving people here? I don't know, Mrs. Langšádlová isn't here today. I don't see Mrs. Černochová either. But if you don't mind, come on over, get off the mic and tell my grandmother to save some Rus, so let her die. Does anyone have that set up? So how come the government that has this opportunity hasn't taken advantage of it, but invited here, I don't know, twenty or thirty doctors from the United States who flew here on vacation, had a dumpling-pork-green, a schnitzel, a sirloin, a Plzeň, and went home. And we've been fighting about it for hours. Do You Recall? We fought for hours about the presence of doctors from the United States in our territory. And what was it? Holidays, they didn't investigate a single patient, they didn't help anyone. So I'm asking the absent Prime Minister who's supposed to be quarantined, but he's terrified of me even though he's vaccinated. Well, I'm asking him. Are you gonna invite any of them over? Because they have the doctors. They have thousands of them, and they're ready to send them here because they've already mastered their pandemic. To abolish the House, that there will be some security element to abolish the House. Please, we've already canceled the emergency once. We canceled it, and we're still in it. That's what you can have in that law, whatever insurance you want, if you don't limit the jurisdiction of the county. Then the Minister will announce it, it will be 30 days, we will cancel it here, because your voters will press you, the county will announce it again, we will meet here again, we will vote on something else again. This law doesn't give people any assurance that the emergency situation will ever end under foreseeable conditions. Especially when the system is run by ignorant people and amateurs. I repeat the words of Professor Beran. The PES system was designed by people, none of whom are doctors, no medical education, no microbiologists, no immunologists. They're theorists of mathematics and physics. It looks good in some American series, but in real life, in which most of the time one plus one is two, so all mathematical theories can go to hell when the effect of butterfly wings comes, unpredictable things. Weather forecast. What perfect machines we have and how many times it doesn't work. No one cares about experts' opinions here. Why doesn't the House allow people like Professor Beran to appear on some panel, Professor Thon, who said we can prevent a covideo? He mentioned vitamin D. Why don't we hear him out here? And Professor Thon, who is a vaccinologist, wrote to me that he thinks it's the best solution to give everyone affected at least the first dose of the vaccine - which I personally disagree with - but this vaccinologist said that we can also treat covid at the initial stage. How come the editor of Czech Television didn't ask him how and what medications? How come he didn't tell him, Doctor, that's an amazing thing? What kind of drugs can we treat covid in the early stages? Why doesn't Professor Thon here tell us about this during a performance? Why are we just trying to ban someone, order someone something, give someone a few change, then threaten to take a few of the change away from him when he makes a bad request, or give him a four-million-dollar liquidation penalty? That's all we're talking about. From any of you, don't be mad at me, there's been no proposal for a proactive solution to this crisis. They knew how to choose in Sweden. They just forbade their drapes. They believe that drapes are the cause of the spread of the covid. The more vaccinations, it looks like the more mutations. It just starts to vaccinate, and all of a sudden we have mutations everywhere. Are there statistics of people who were vaccinated in the Czech Republic and who received covid or died within a month of the vaccine? Is there such statistics? I ask the absent Minister of Health again. [[The Minister is present.]] Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Minister. Is there such statistics, Minister? Do we know all the people who have been vaccinated, and do we know how many of them have been positive after vaccination and how many have died after vaccination? Thank you for your response to the debate. [[14.30 hours]] Are these data publicly available? Because I don't care if they died of a vaccine or a vaccine. No one here cared if anyone was dying of covid or covid. Nobody here cared about people dying of cancer because they haven't been treated since March that people are afraid to go to doctors, so they're dying of strokes or heart attacks at home. That's not what anyone asked about covid. So I don't care about the vaccine whether a woman died of old age or died of some other disease. I want to know if he got a vaccine or not a month before he died. That's what I want to know, I want access to this information. I want the answer. The public has a right to know her. For me, this law, for the time being, is aimed at reducing human rights and freedoms in this country by the salami method. It is the first round of salami, which is ready for future amendment, when various other diseases will be added according to how different global predictors will dictate to their representatives in various parliaments, who will be elected to Czech people, but in fact have other bosses and other masters whose instructions they follow. Therefore, I beg you, I, the evil, arrogant volný, who threatens you here with a deadly disease in a way that has been ordered in many cities in Sweden, ask you to study these amendments to consider whether you want to make sure that this law is not against them, but is aimed against COVID-19, to limit the validity of this law so that after a few months we can meet here and see if this law works, because so far none of what has been passed here has worked. Where do you know this law will work? What makes you so sure that this law will work when this law does not contain anything new, it does not contain care for the endangered group, it does not contain prevention, it contains only repression, haunting, bans, orders? It doesn't bring anything new. Tell the people that they will pay only until July, that we will then evaluate the effectiveness of it here and either approve it again or not. Make sure people know it's only the law and only the COVID-19. Accept the amendment, which states that this law applies only and only to COVID-19, that it will never apply to any other disease in the future. This will send out a signal that will calm a lot of people. And if you approve, Marian and I promise to wear drapes. That's one thing. Second thing. You can sit us up there for the glass, because you'll see a lot of interesting things and we'll like it, we'll be happy there, it'll talk more about you than about us, it won't bother us there. And please think about the fact that if you want to impose further measures on this nation, then - I repeat my proposal - sit down as club leaders and political parties and approve a change in the Rules of Procedure so that, during the period of validity of this law, which you now wish to approve, not one Member will enter this building without testing itself before, every day by an antigen test and at least once a week by PCR test, so that we can enjoy it with everything, with everything that we intend to throw into this building and we have already cast ourselves on citizens, so that publicly. The photo with the stick in your nose will be a perfect motivation for those who voted for you to behave as you do, which is responsible and wise to you. So if you want to be the responsible and wise role model, please become one and test yourself publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. I beg you to take a sanitary measure. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready. [[The microphone and its surroundings will be disinfected.]] Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, maybe I'll try to bring back the debate on the pandemic plan that we have before us. Sorry, the pandemic law. I spoke on purpose about the plan because a pandemic plan was adopted in 2011. The pandemic plan, if you look at it, and it's from the Ministry of Health's website, and I assume there's someone at the Ministry of Health who followed that pandemic plan, even though his basic intention was for the flu, yet his report also talks about other pandemics, other viral diseases, so according to this pandemic plan, the Ministry of Health and the entire government should proceed. Unfortunately, the first steps after the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic indicate that there was no one in the Ministry who remembered that the Ministry had this plan and should follow it. This is the first statement that I consider to be quite characteristic of the management system that has been adopted in the pandemic. An individualist plan, an individual responsibility plan, was adopted with minimal consultation of close individuals and groups that were created to encourage this individualist plan, and it was forgotten that a collective body, a body based on opinions, debates and a storm of ideas, might be more important in these matters, because it is not about finding the right path. It often shows up along the road, whether it's right or not, but you need to know the variations. I have called on the Minister here about four times to focus more on citizens' trust, to look for ways to convince citizens that they are doing what they are doing with reason, and to explain the goal to citizens. I emphasized that as a doctor, he has the gift of speaking to people and he knows how to do it. Unfortunately, he didn't hear me. Unfortunately, it remained at the classic press conferences, where the tabloids mainly hunt for answers, and it is not about giving information to citizens who, yes, are frightened. And I'm sure you all know it. There is a large group of people who are really scared, and I understand them, because when you read the paper, you watch TV, and other social contacts are severely limited, so the fear of those citizens is quite clear and tangible. Perhaps for the sake of awareness it would also be worth saying that there is some European centre for disease prevention and control, whose database and information about how this pandemic taming of COVID-19 takes place within Europe and the world, may also be worth more quoting and comparing the data that are given here and not just living in our small boiler of the Czech Republic and looking at other data. I'm not going to quote things here right now, I had some analyses prepared here from Sweden, etc., but it's not the subject of this debate. This debate is about the pandemic law. [[14.40 hours]] When we look at the wording of this text, I am concerned that there has been a lack of understanding of the meaning of this bill. This law should replace the emergency situation. Isn't that right? I don't think it is because it has historically happened here, and there is also the government's fault and the minister's, when the emergency has changed, the termus techicus, for the measures that have been taken, and because of that, the name of the emergency was discredited in the eyes of the public. I think we all feel it in the debates with the citizens that they don't like something, they can be the shoes, it can be the traffic, anything, and they'll say it's the emergency, if you cancel the emergency, it'll be better. Well, it's not like that, is it? The emergency situation is a measure from a crisis law that talks about how to work in certain matters. These measures have nothing to do with this. But the advantage of emergency is one thing. Since all such measures restrict the personal freedom of a person at different stages, they limit his will and possibilities, parliamentary scrutiny is included in these laws. Parliament has a clear definition of how to address these laws, how to approach them, how to disturb them, for example. But in the original proposal for this legal measure in an epidemic called the pandemic law, this was not. The original proposal was a purely technocratic draft of the Ministry of Health's activities within such a pandemic. He hasn't even changed much since what was already here in the House, and he was the sum of the things that have been in the Ministry for the past three quarters of a year of experience, almost a year ago, and he was trying to legally capture the things that have been individually approved. What happened? This law of origin, which was prepared for some time by experts in ministries, I suppose, even with the participation of experts from the Ministry of Interior and other interested ministries, legislation, got into parliament and during yesterday, if I am properly informed, I do not want to take anybody's time, perhaps even 48 hours and not just 24 hours, there have been significant changes of this law, significant changes of the type that each brought some paper A4 or more and both the dog and pussy cooked the cake, so this was done with forgiveness and a proposal was made. It's possible to make laws like that. But here I would expect that this proposal will be taken back by the legislators and will deal with this law very honestly and to draw attention to the risks arising from this law. But unfortunately this did not happen because it is not humanly possible to pass in a few hours and put together such an important law in such extensive changes that are designed in 48 hours to solve all the mistakes. And the law is important because it greatly limits the human rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. Let's just say that. Today, when I look at this proposal, I wonder if the emergency situation wasn't better after all - I apologize, colleague, colleagues and citizens. Because the emergency situation was at least sophisticated, everyone knew how it worked and when it could end, everyone was looking forward to it and pressured at different levels, whether the stage shifted or accelerated, or extended, but it was clear and it worked, though not in the repressive part, but it is no longer the fault of the law, it is already the fault of other application layers of the law of crisis management, the law that makes the emergency situation work. What we've got ahead of us is a pardon for the crap. A bunch of pious wishes from political parties that felt a chance and put the government in a tight spot, and she mainly wants something to pay off so she can get it over with as a stage. If we wrote anything in the law, it would probably be there, because there was no will on the part of the executives to defend anything. And that's why they could have gotten into that law with all the crap out of it. For example, perhaps the most important thing. In the original law, which was deboned of any parliamentary control, some of the political parties, I do not know which, in Section 1, added Article 3, which reads: On the date of the entry into force of this law, the state of the pandemic emergency is declared. This situation can be terminated if the House votes... and so forth. This, according to the petitioner, is the principal of parliamentary scrutiny. It's stupid, because there's no more talk of pandemic emergency in this whole proposal. All other proposals refer to emergency measures. So by this approval, you will approve some state of pandemic emergency with this approval, but there is no further solution to what the definition of "pandemic emergency" implies. Is it possible to take these emergency measures based on pandemic alert? To what extent? Or we will end up with a pandemic emergency, Parliament, with a vote, but the Ministry of Health, Regional Hygiene Station or Prague City Hygiene Station will come and may order emergency measures to eradicate the epidemic or risk of recurrence. They're not ordering a pandemic emergency, they're ordering emergency measures. So the domain uncertainty is quite obvious. It is one example of how this design is sewn with a hot needle, and it is only wishful thinking to apply this law. At least the original design had some head and heel. There was talk that part should be to transfer responsibility to county sanitation stations. The Regional Hygiene Stations Act is also here somewhere in the rocks, worried they wouldn't make it, anything's possible. There has also been talk that it will be a part of it in order to clearly define, for example, the relationship with armed forces, such as IZDS or the police. And here you're reading in this proposal that the Health Department is going to ask for the integrated rescue system files. Do you understand what he's going to say? That's not an order, he'll ask. And on request, I can refuse. So I'm completely losing the sense of the pandemic law in understanding that the Ministry of Health is ordering the relief systems to join. It only asks them, but you can refuse on request. The same goes for asking the government to decide on the use of the military, but it can refuse, too. So what is the change compared to the existing laws on the armed forces of the Czech Republic or on crisis management? None, actually. It is only and only a declaration. But what got there is the liking to those political parties that are going to vote for it today, and that's the thing about certain compensation, it's that Section 8 that was delivered there this morning, which talks about how it's going to be done in the framework of damages. This may be elaborate, but also very, I would say, uncertain or ignorant in practice applying. Will these damages - because this law is planned to issue today, by approval - fit all the other programmes that are? It doesn't actually say that here. So by approving this law, the state of the pandemic emergency, it ends in my opinion all other support programs, because they talk about the pandemic covid and beyond and have a different title, a different name, a different understanding within the emergency state. Because there's a lot of damage compensation involved here, and those laws also talk about damages. Are they dribbling, splitting up, or are they going to be multiplied? This is not addressed here at all, because someone came to this meeting, brought one sheet of paper: please work. Nobody else did it because he didn't have time, so he put it together, it's probably going to get away with it. I'll be pleasantly surprised to find out that lawyers and specialists have been working on this for months now, but then let them be put there, so we know who's responsible when it doesn't work out. Who will be responsible. Who have participated in this. [[14.50 hours]] So, as an example, I'm going to present today's update. The press has shown that there are a number of vaccines in the Czech Republic and no one can inoculate them because there is a problem with distribution, Minister. It was said - and the journalists probably didn't suck it out of their finger - that there was a strain on the competition of the distribution authority, the distribution company. Is it true, or isn't it true when the minister here tells me? One of the vaccines, which is not directly distributed by the manufacturer, is not distributed because there is no one to distribute it. This is the official press, and it hasn't been denied. It's an official report. And the minister here says and shakes his head that no, but the Prime Minister has already spoken. He said, that's right, I'll look into it, I'll want an explanation first thing in the morning. So he confirmed it. Or doesn't he have the right information and directs the government on incorrect information and does wrong courts to the media? That would be even worse. I'm sorry. So I'd rather admit that the report is true and that there are some problems in the distribution of vaccines because the insurance failed to select the right distributor on time or are arguing. That's what the message sounded like. And when the Prime Minister confirms her like that, it's hard to say. But I'd like to be convinced that I'm wrong. And especially the citizens of the Czech Republic are waiting for vaccines, they have a vaccination list, they are written somewhere when they read and are not demented, so they don't care that the responsible people in this room are shaking their heads and saying, that's not true, that's not true. But she lives in public space, she works. And that's worse, it inspires the uncertainty that the government doesn't know what it's doing. Therefore, I would like for all of you who approve this proposal to include authors, specific authors who have prepared the various things under the text of this proposal. The Government's bill means the Government's Legislative Council has gone through it. If you look at the Internet, you'll find the names of the lawyers involved. You will find clear addressees of possible errors and damages. So in this proposal, maybe only the political party chairmen will sign up and say, well, we're not lawyers, we tried, but. But we've been there before. That's why I don't think the bill that's being proposed is good. I can understand all the intentions that led the plaintiffs to present him so quickly, but in my opinion he got cornered, let himself be manipulated into an area that was not suitable for the legislative initiative, and try to fill the remaining space that he had given himself for the fourteen days of unconstitutional procedure by the governor and the government when he declared an emergency. I consider this to be wrong and I think that a law which will very fundamentally affect the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic, perhaps even more than an emergency, so demonized, would deserve more detailed legislative work. And from these titles, I don't consider it right, because we don't know what's going to happen with the approval. It didn't say how the other laws were gonna work, what they were gonna do, what they were gonna do. Will they be abolished because they are made according to another law? Will these laws really apply simultaneously? The regulations, which ones are they? That is why I say that this is an outstanding proposal, and that is why I personally believe that even most people who have had the opportunity to get acquainted with crisis management sometimes cannot vote because this is not how the crisis management law and the law that interferes with the personal rights of a person can be prepared. That hot needle, ladies and gentlemen, you ruined the whole thing, and you just can't defend this against the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Mr Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u33	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Through you to a colleague of yours, Luzar. I absolutely respect the criticism of the law itself, the criticism of the amendments, but one thing I would like to ask. Please nicely, the law, or the amendment on which there was consensus, was not really sewn up a few politicians at some meetings. I now speak for KDU-ČSL, I speak for AntiCovid ODS team, political parties TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL. And we have a number of other experts, consultants within our professional platform, including in the field of crisis legislation, health legislation and, indeed, in this sense, our initiatives have been prepared by experts and not as you have said here. And if I have information, the final wording - I think Minister Blatný said so at the meeting - was also seen by the Vice-President of the Legislative Council of the Government, Dr. Kněžínek. I suppose it could also be a certain authority for you, once the Minister of Justice. So the fact that it's created here in some way completely random and without consulting, it's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u34	Thank you. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes for today's meeting from 14.00 to 15.00. It is Mrs Procházková's turn in the general debate, so far the last one entered into the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u35	Good afternoon, everyone, thank you for your word. I'm sorry I didn't get the opportunity to make a technical comment right after Mr. Volný's speech, so I'm gonna use it for this performance, but still. I'd like to ask you all one thing. Do you all realize what you're doing here that people are dying out there? Do you really realize that people are dying out there and we're talking and talking and interrupting and interrupting? It's horrible! Mr. Volný. Sit in the ambulance instead of me! Try to look at that dying man and stop telling people that there's nothing wrong with covid! Start wearing the drape and normally finally test yourself the way everyone else is tested who's here in the Chamber of Deputies!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u36	Just please, Madame, through the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u37	I'm sorry. And as for what has been said here by my previous speakers. You know, it's always said that measures are useless, but no one here has ever brought in any analysis, and no one realized what would have happened if the measures hadn't been where we would have been. This would certainly be confirmed that the basic ones, the three r, are not respected. That would be enough if everyone followed them. And then you say they don't work. It's not true. Otherwise, as far as the criticism goes, there's no law from the government. And which one of you, from the opposition, which one of you, and when, here in the House, has passed another law of this nature? Who at the Gremium asked to be included in the meeting? Why didn't you repeat it? Why didn't you go out with it all fall and want it to be discussed? Why do you all say we didn't bring anything? [[Noise in the hall.]] We brought something and you could have picked it up and you could have commented on it and we could have fixed it here in the fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u38	Thank you and the factual comments will follow. First, Mrs Helena Válková, then Mr Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u39	I think that, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr Vice-President, we are all experiencing this very much, and I will certainly lead my point in a calm spirit, but I understand Mrs Procházková by your means, because unlike me, she is confronted with the raw reality. I thank her for getting us through this. I would just like to point out that it is not true that this law would not be meticulously discussed, and we even went into that risk, if there was a chairwoman of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, who had probably gone somewhere at the moment, Valachová, she would certainly have confirmed it. Yesterday, constitutional experts - Professor Kysela, Kudrna, Wintr - were also convened - I do not want to touch anyone I forget now, of course Deputy Mr. Radek Policar from the Ministry of Health was there. They all looked at it with optics, if this law is constitutional enough to change what would still have to be changed. They drew attention to the lack of parliamentary control and the way in which this can be corrected. The way it was fixed, they agreed to it. So basically, we did everything that had to be made out of all those aspects in that very tense time period. [[15.00 hours]] I don't want to abuse those two minutes, I just wanted to ask Mr. Volný as a gentleman's lady. I always have to leave. We measured it here, the distance, she's not exactly ideal. And if he doesn't have the drape - and I've had the covid once before and I really haven't had an easy run, maybe even thanks to my math class, I'd hate to get him again. And I always have to leave after that, and I can't watch the House meeting. So I'd ask him to put on the drape, considering that fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u40	Thank you. I, of course, join the honourable Member's request and resounding. Mr Lubomír Volný is next with a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Válková, you've gone into politics and you have to be tough, so, I'm sorry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u42	Through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u43	Through Mr President, I apologise, so I cannot accept your request through Mr President because you have to endure it. If it weren't for the measure, Dr. President, it might have been like Belarus in our country. That means a tenth of the dead, an open economy, and everything's fine. Covid exists, no one denies him, but people can also die because you reject professional debate. And as a member of the government group, as a member of the government's ANO movement, you haven't said a word on the microphone about prevention, about how people could strengthen their immunity and how they could defend themselves against the disease of COVID-19. That's the biggest mistake in my life and the biggest disaster that's going on here. I repeat that in Sweden they are already forbidden to wear drapes, because in many cities the view that drapes cause the spread of the covideo has prevailed. Do you know when in one moment in the history of this covid crisis, covid stopped attacking? We've got 40 seconds, so I'm gonna give you five to think about it, in the last 11 months, when the covid didn't attack. Three, two, one. The moment you stopped interfering with that covid. The moment you stopped interfering with human immunity, she could handle the covid on her own. The moment the sun was shining, the moment we all had enough vitamin D, the moment we all had enough social contacts, the moment we all had enough sports. So in the summer, the covid was in retreat. The moment you start interfering with this covide and start interfering with nature and our immune system, at that point, you're helping to murder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u44	Now I ask again for the disinfection of the speaker's counter. The factual remarks of Mr Výborný and Mr Staněk will follow. [[Short break for disinfection.]] Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u45	Thank you for the floor. Through you, Mr Vice-President, to Mrs Procházková. I would like to assure you that the draft law on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic, which was presented here in the spring, was a government press. And he could have been discussed a hundred times if the government wanted to. Really, attacking the opposition that we didn't want to talk about it here. Of course, we presented the criticism that we had here in the spring. But the fact that he has not yet been discussed and has now been presented in a new version by Minister Blatný is really your responsibility, virtually. Your government coalition. Please, you can't throw it at the opposition. And if you've got the impression that we're gonna be writing crisis legislation on our knees in the House, I'd really warn you about that. That's not a happy move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u46	Thank you. Mr Antonín Staněk, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I do not want to delay you with my technical remark, but it does not allow me to react to some of the things that have been said here, at least in the form of the technical one. I think that in the performances of my fellow Member, Mr Volný, with all due respect and disrespect for him, whether that is the case or not, we are witnessing a beautiful direct demonstration of what is and is not democratic. You know, the greatest and most classic statement says that my freedom ends where it threatens another's freedom. And look around you. Members sitting here in the House wearing a drape trying not to threaten their colleagues in their neighborhood. You are the two Members who have decided freely and rightly to break the general rule. You sit among colleagues, young people who have grandparents, parents, and really rightly can worry about their health. And I really regret the House worker who has to come here regularly to disinfect space just because someone has decided to show that he has his right. But the right to life, the right to health and safety is in the Chamber of Deputies at the moment, and we, who are here in disguise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I will only ask for clarification from President Michálek whether he has declared himself factually or in a debate. In the debate, in that case, with a factual remark from Mr Vlastimil Válek, who is the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u49	I very briefly, therefore factual, to correct myself. I am extremely addressed by this debate, so my colleague Blatný and I also remembered some 20 years ago, maybe more years ago. I think you all believe there's a disease. I hope there's no one here who thinks he doesn't exist, right, left. And yet there is a country that has voted in the law that there is no disease, so it has solved the problem of this disease or cures it. So it's Belarus. So I think a lot of things can be voted out, and a lot of diseases can be abolished by the law that they aren't. Jim managed to solve the disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u50	It is not yet Mr Michálek's turn, because Mr Lubomír Volný has made a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u51	To Mr. Docent Válek. through Mr President. You have small salaries in Russia, but you beat black people in America. It's called slimy herring, evasive maneuver. We're not talking about disease, we're talking about covid, which is not banned in Belarus by a law that normally treats itself in Belarus. And it's undignified of your position, Professor, to use such primitive reasoning fouls at the level of a pupil of the sixth grade. That's one thing. The second thing I've forgotten right now is that in Belarus, you can go to the store, you can go everywhere, and those covid statistics are going to the store all the time. It's not true they don't go there. If you go to Belarus - covid - Wikipedia, it's gonna come out right there. There are statistics. I don't know how many problems Belarus has with the disease, but I know that there are tens of thousands of people gathered at Borelioza.cz in the Republic or in our home. which were crippled by Czech doctors because they haven't discovered the disease in the last 20 years. And that it's very hard to get a high-quality disease test today. That's probably what my colleagues could confirm when they're gonna disinfect this microphone for nothing again, because any one of you who doesn't have a new respirator, and any one of you who doesn't have a new drape, it's spouting viruses just like me, if you have them in you, by the way. So log in all those who have a new drape. I wonder how many of you there are. [[He's looking around.]] Oh, yeah. Pecka. So there's about 10 percent of you in that case. So we in the Czech Republic have a problem with the disease, even though we did not ban it by law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u52	Time. Thank you. And again, I'm gonna ask you to disinfect the counter. It is Mr Radovan Vích's turn to make a point of fact. President Michálek will not speak until a detailed debate. Then I have Mr. Bartoš's general application, if that's the case. [[Microphone disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Mr Radovan Vích - factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm just going to respond to what has been said here within my previous speakers. I would like to say that it is a fundamental mistake that the House press 859, which was presented or inserted into the system last spring, was essentially to be discussed. And if it had been discussed, the conditions of Section 69 and Section 80 of the Public Health Act could have been adjusted in some way and could only have been resolved by the deployment of soldiers and the Administration of State Material Reserves, which could have purchased medical devices even after the emergency. At present, since 16 o'clock yesterday, there has been a brand-new terminus technique, and this is the pandemic emergency, and this has given the law a completely different dimension. Basically, there's an emergency measure that's overturned under crisis laws, whether 110 or 240. So it's totally unacceptable to me. The law is very broken. It doesn't make sense. And for these reasons, if we're going to adopt this kind of law in such a short time, I just can't be conformary about it. And there's no way I can vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. President Ivan Bartoš has yet to enter into the general debate, but I do not see him here. I therefore ask everyone whether there is still an application for the general debate. It's not. I am ending the general debate. Neither the rapporteur nor the Minister is interested in the final words after the general debate. I am opening up a detailed debate. President Jakub Michálek is entered into a detailed debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for the floor. We have applied most of the amendments in the context of a comprehensive amendment and have agreed not to make any amendments. However, this is a matter that is consulted with the government that I have prepared and with the agreement of the Ministry of Health and Vice-President of the Legislative Council of the Government of Mr. Kněžínek. I report to House document 7530, which is an amendment which has three parts. There is a legislative technical error being corrected. It also provides for consultations with the Supreme Administrative Court on the method of judicial review of emergency measures by the Ministry of Health and Regional Hygiene Stations. I will remind you that, in the context of the comprehensive amendment, there has been a change in the fact that regional public health stations can also issue measures, so the relevant provisions in Section 12 on judicial review have been amended to respond to the fact that measures issued by regional health authorities will be reviewed by regional administrative courts and there will be a possibility of appeals, while in the case of measures of the Ministry of Health, the proceedings will be one-instance and will be led by the Supreme Administrative Court, and there are procedural rules to ensure that this can be done properly. Furthermore, there is a legislative technical error, namely that in the original draft law it was amended that the effectiveness of the provisions on compensation and fines would end with the fixed date of 28 February. This needs to be adjusted in such a way that these provisions continue to apply after the end of the law, which means that even after the end of the law, compensation can be paid and criminalise offences under this law. So that is the first amendment I am proposing. This is for a comprehensive amendment. The second amendment is an amendment to the proposal that will be read by Mr Vondrák, in agreement with him. This concerns the powers of the authorities in the regions. The only thing that changes my amendment is that it will be explicitly mentioned there for the removal of doubts by the mayor of the capital city of Prague, where, although Prague is a region under Act No. 131/2000 Coll., on the capital city of Prague, but the mayor is not the governor without another, so unlike the crisis law, where the legislative shortcut is introduced at the beginning of the law, it is not introduced here, so it is appropriate to complete it there for the removal of doubts. My amendment is that in Section 8, the following paragraph 5 is added: The provisions in paragraphs 1 to 4 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the capital city of Prague and the mayor of the capital city of Prague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Blatný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am merely confirming that the first proposal that Mr Michálek spoke of is indeed supported by the Ministry. It is an adjustment to what we agreed after consulting the Legislative Council of the Government. So this is supported here by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u58	Thank you. Mr. Ivo Vondrák. Mr Lubomír Volný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u59	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I will just apply to the proposed amendment, which is mentioned under number 7527. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný is next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u61	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to sign up for me and my colleague, Marian Bojek, for the amendments that are under number 7532. As I said in the general debate, the essence of these proposals is to calm the public in that these laws are really only aimed at the situation with COVID-19, which means that most of these amendments are heading towards the time limit of this law in the coming months. If you approve of the time limitation of this law, you will give us all a chance to objectively assess whether this law has been complied with or failed to fulfil its function, or to retake it or take any other measures. It will certainly calm the public down in the sense that people who are concerned that this law could be used for other purposes in the future will not be able to be abused. And another amendment contains the fact that it is strictly lex COVID-19, which means that it is a law that is aimed only at COVID-19 and will never be directed against any other disease. Thank you for releasing yourself from personal antipathy. Thank you for treating these proposals professionally and regardless of what your personal relationship with me and your colleague Bojka is like, you can control your emotions and not act on the basis of ideas, dreams and opinions, but act on behalf of all the people of this country, which you will thus calm down that you are not planning anything wrong with him in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u62	Thank you. Once again, I'll ask you to disinfect the speaker's desk. Then Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček will speak. [[Microphone disinfection in progress.]] Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Before I apply to the amendment, because I am acting after Mr Volné, and he said that we should all go to the tests, and I think that, especially in his interest, it would be very often to go to the tests, because I would draw his attention to Section 153 of the Criminal Code - the spread of contagious disease from negligence. There's a pretty interesting penalty rate. Now please tell me why I got out. I sign up for House Document 7529. He is listed in the system under my name, however, it is the big amendment to which the chairmen of the ANO, ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN, TOP 09, social democracy have attached their signatures. In one case it is, I believe, in the case of TOP 09, it is not the party chair, but it is the President of the parliamentary club. So on behalf of all of these, I, on my behalf, have put this amendment into the system. And again, it's document 7529.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Tomáš Martínek. But he's not checking in, it's just a mistake, okay. At this point, therefore, I have no application for a detailed debate. Anyone else reporting from the scene to a detailed debate? No, I'm done with the detailed debate. The Minister and the rapporteur have an interest in the final words. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only briefly. I think today was proof of goodwill, proof that we can and we all want to agree, and proof that we are able to lead this country further in a crisis situation despite differences in attitudes. We all know that the situation is not simple. But I would just like to say that the law that you will now vote on is giving us all another way to effectively combat the Coronavirus, while avoiding the use of emergency conditions where this is not necessarily necessary. For myself, for all the patients and for those who take care of them, I want to thank and look forward to further cooperation in this spirit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u66	Thank you. And the final word of the rapporteur, who is Mr Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Just very briefly to be sure, I will repeat what we will be voting on. We are voting on the draft law on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and on the amendment of some related laws. So just in case, if anybody here feels like they want to vote on the pandemic law, I'm warning you that they're gonna be disappointed. We're not voting on him. We will vote on this law. And it would be good for everyone to see it that way, see it and realize it. And I just have a favor to ask. In agreement with the legislators, who need 15 minutes to prepare the amendments and prepare the voting scheme, if it is possible to request a 15-minute break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u68	Yes. There is a request for 15 minutes for legislation to prepare us for third reading. I introduce all Members to the fact that at the political meeting of all the political parties, there was an agreement that we would not continue to discuss further points until we were finished discussing this bill. Therefore, in accordance with this agreement, I am declaring a 15-minute break. Meet me here in 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, it is 15.38 hours, we will continue to discuss the Government's draft law on emergency measures in the COVID-19 epidemic and on the amendment of certain related laws. According to my information, we are more or less prepared to discuss this law at third reading. Therefore, pursuant to Article 99 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures in question do not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act initiates the third reading of the bill submitted. The rapporteur is ready. And before I give him my word, I'm opening the debate at third reading. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. There is no interest in the final words, so I will ask the rapporteur, Mr Vlastimil Válek, to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as those amendments have been tabled, I propose this voting procedure. We will be the first to vote on Mr Hamáček's amendment, which is proposal 7529. Secondly, we will be voting on Mr Michálek's amendment with the number 7530. Third, we would vote on Mr Michálek's amendment, which complements Mr Vondrák's amendment, and it is proposal 7527. As the fourth vote, we would vote on the proposal made by Mr Vondrák the hejtman. It's draft number 7527. Fifth, we would vote on the Volný Member's amendment, where the vote will be a little more difficult. The amendment is actually eight degrees, and the levels vary by date. So I would always say what date we're voting to make it very clear. I'm not gonna read the whole thing now. I would always say to that particular point what date it is, because that's how the proposals differ. Only point number seven, he says that it regulates § 1 of this law, that it is limited only to measures for the management of the COVID-19 epidemic. Eight is the date again. So I would always read the data on the individual points of the amendment. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole. I beg your consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u71	Yes. But before I give my consent to the procedure, I must ask that we make sure that all the rules are satisfied with this procedure, or that anyone is interested in handing out the amendments on the bench before the vote. Mr President of the SPD. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u72	Thank you for the floor. I only got Mr Ivo Vondrák's amendment on the stand, otherwise I have none. And I don't know how we're gonna vote in the SPD, so I'd ask you to multiply it for us and put it on my desk because I don't know what we're gonna vote on. I know what the framework of the amendment will be, but I don't know the details. And we can't do that in such a serious situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u73	Yes, Mr President, it's no problem, you have the right, we'll arrange it. President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. I thought there was some sort of preliminary agreement between the rapporteur and everyone. If that's not the case - please don't interrupt me, I'll tell you. [[A comment from the diaper.]] - in which case, the legislation always needs about 40 minutes before it's ready, printed and handed out. So if you do, then there's nothing left to do but interrupt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u75	Yes. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u76	Well, really, we obviously want to vote, we don't want to delay anything, I'm not saying yes or no, but it's not possible that we don't even have amendments on our tables in this serious vote, and our chairman didn't even get those proposals. So I'd like to ask you to actually multiply it. If the others have it in their hands, then the SPD will pass on the amendments. The sooner, the faster, we don't say 40 minutes if you give it to us in five minutes. We have been to those meetings, we have a framework overview, we have that, we know the principles, but this is a serious vote that affects the whole Czech Republic. So I'd like to ask you - I'm not saying 40 minutes, but please put those changelings on the table so we can do it in a framework way - depending on how the votes are going to be, so there's no mistake. So we know what is to be voted on in principle, of course, but we have to see changers in detail, we can't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u77	Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u78	I understand that, I think that this is a legitimate requirement, so I suggest that we interrupt this point by 16.30 and we can continue to discuss further points, we will return to this at 16.30, and we will all have it in front of us by 4:30, and we can start voting at 4:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-18-ps2017-086-01-001-001.u79	I should see that as a procedural proposal. It's a procedural proposal, I'll put it to a vote. I'll repeat it just in case, so we don't have any uncertainty. President Zbyněk Stanjura suggested that we interrupt this point and return to it at 16.30, in the meantime we will open another point in our negotiations. Is this clear to everyone, please, what are we going to vote on? It is. So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered by 168 Members, for 161, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am therefore interrupting the third reading of this point. I'm saying we'll renegotiate it at 4:30. We are now standing before the discussion of the point.
