ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended /German press 1190/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce to you the bill amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended, and Act No. 235/2004 Coll., on Value Added Tax, as amended. The reason for submitting this proposal is the obligation of the Czech Republic to implement new legislation of the European Union in the field of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages and in the field of common security and defence policy within the European Union. First of all, I would like to point out that this is particularly the implementation of the directive, which had, in principle, a minimum degree of control of the possibility of introducing the so-called domestic burning of spirits without excise duty in the European Union. The Czech Republic has repeatedly not agreed to such a proposal and I have strongly opposed such an approach to the Council of the EU. The adoption of this proposal was possible only at the moment when, in particular, at the request of the Czech Republic, rules were implemented in the proposal for a directive that would prevent the abuse of this regime, which could have a significant overlap on the Czech market. For this reason, the Czech Republic has made every effort to achieve the strictest possible rules for the introduction of private production of alcohol in the directive, in such a way as to correspond as much as possible to the legislation set up in the Czech Republic for the production of spirits. For example, I have advocated that the fruit distillate be produced only in a registered production facility and from fruit grown on a land owned by the grower or entitled to use it under another legal title. We do not plan the Czech regulation of the use of this institute, we continue to consider the system of growing brandies much more appropriate. As regards the specific content of the draft law, it contains amendments to the Law on excise duties and the Act on value added tax, the effectiveness of these amendments being determined in accordance with European Union legislation. The first area of change is caused by the transposition of the so-called alcohol directive. In this case, the Law on excise duties, in particular in the following areas, is affected: adaptation of the provisions relating to the calculation of grades Plato for beer to which certain other substances such as sweeteners or flavourings are added after fermentation. Modification of the procedure for obtaining a certificate to apply a reduced excise duty rate in another Member State to alcoholic beverages produced by domestic small independent producers of alcoholic beverages, provided that such beverages are transported to Member States which apply reduced excise duty rates to them. The conditions for recognition of certificates of a small independent beer producer issued in another Member State are then incorporated in a mirror if the beer is delivered from another Member State to the Czech Republic. The second area of change is triggered by the transposition of the so-called common defence effort directive. In this case, the Law on excise duties and the Value Added Tax Act are affected. Amendments to the extension of the application of existing provisions governing the special regime for the armed forces of the North Atlantic Treaty to the armed forces of a Member State involved in defence efforts to implement the common security and defence policy within the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u3	Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Iva Kalátová, to take the floor. Madam, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, and I wish you all a good afternoon. As has already been said, the reason for submitting this bill is the obligation of the Czech Republic to implement the new legislation of the European Union in the field of alcohol and alcoholic beverages taxes and tax exemptions, as well as the follow-up to the common defence efforts within the framework of the common security and defence policy of the European Union. Much has already been said here, so I will only focus on the most important points. As regards the so-called alcohol directive, that is to say Directive 92/83/EEC on the harmonisation of the structure of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages, which has already been amended by the European Union, these changes are indeed not of a fundamental nature and include, in particular, the refinement of the text when determining the procedure for measuring the degrees of Plato for beer. The Minister mentioned that this is particularly the case when other substances such as sweeteners or flavourings are added. The adjustment for the calculation of the grades of Plato for beer contained in the Directive will not be effective in the Czech Republic until 1 January 2031 as well as in the case of the treatment of alcohol in general or in particular denatured, including the revision of Member States' procedures for the detection of its abuse. In contrast to the previous wording of the Alcoholic Directive, Member States are further expanded to apply optionally reduced excise duty rates for certain product categories where they are produced by small producers. [[15.30 hours]] A uniform format of the certificate for small producers of alcoholic beverages, the products of which are transported to the Member States of the European Union, which apply reduced rates to a particular product group, is also introduced. The alcohol directive also provides for the possibility to allow the production of a small quantity of distillate for personal consumption in a Member State under strictly defined conditions. It should be recalled here that the Czech Republic is already using this option on the basis of the derogation provided for in the accession to the European Union, in the form of the production of distillates in growers' brandies. These changes to the individual provisions of the Alcoholic Directive are obliged by the Czech Republic to transpose into the Consumer Tax Act by the end of 2021. As regards the financial impact, given the nature of the changes in the alcohol directive, a significant impact on the revenue and expenditure side of the state budget is not expected, and so is the case with regard to tax authorities, tax entities, social and environmental areas, where the major impacts are not expected. The proposed bill is in accordance with constitutional order and is fully compatible with the law and case law of the judicial authorities of the European Union as well as with the general principles of European Union law. At the same time, it can be considered compatible with the international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound. In the case of the downstream directive, it is the transposition of the amended directive on common defence efforts into the Act on excise duties and the Act on value added tax. This transposition will extend the existing provisions governing the possibility of the exemption of goods and services provided to the armed forces of the North Atlantic Treaty and the Partnership for Peace and, where appropriate, the refund of taxes, also for the armed forces of the Member State involved in the defence efforts to implement the European Union's common security and defence policy. The transposition of this directive on common defence efforts needs to be carried out by 30 June 2022. Once again, as regards the effects of this adjustment, only in financial terms, given the nature of the transpositional changes, in particular because of the extension of the exemption or the refund of the tax by other entities, a slight negative budgetary impact on the revenues of public budgets can be expected, in the order of CZK million. Given that the proposal represents a really minimalist mandatory transposition of directives, because it contains only such an adjustment, which must be adopted to properly reflect the new directives into the Czech legal system, it is proposed to agree with the proposal in the first reading under Section 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in such a way as to ensure compliance with the time limits for transposition. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u5	I am opening a general debate to which Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is registered. I don't have another application yet. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we generally agree with the implementation of this directive, but we do not believe that the government has made sufficient use of the option given by the directive and, above all, in terms of the possibility of reducing tax rates to other fermented beverages produced by small independent producers. For this reason, I raise an objection for the Pirates Club and the Mayors Club and an independent objection to the proceedings under Section 90 and we will try to find a solution within the second and third readings that would allow, for example, the Cider producers to include among the beneficiaries in the case of small independent producers. We think it is a shame to use this exception only for mini-breweries when there is a segment of relatively fast growing small producers of these specific drinks, and European legislation allows them to meet. We think that this can also support the transition from domestic production to the official business, let's say completely in the grey zone. We really want to help them start business in this area. At the same time, we are aware of the deadlines that are relentless, and therefore I propose that the deadline be reduced to 35 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-005-005.u7	Shortening the deadline for 35 days. [[An arrangement with the organizational union.]] So I'm ending the general debate and I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words? You're not interested, neither is Madam Secretary. So we will now decide according to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution - Sorry, I'm sorry, I've just been discussing... I'm sorry. [[Ferjenčík: I brought it up.]] So it's on. What two clubs is that for? Pirates and STAN. Well, it's okay now, because it wasn't said what clubs it was for, so we'd know clearly. So now we have the veto. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? So we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 90 Members registered, for 81, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee or committees? I don't see the proposition. So now we will vote on a motion to shorten the time limit for discussion to 35 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 90 Members registered, for 75, against one. The proposal has been adopted and I am ending the first reading of this proposal. We're going to approach the last point of the emergency meeting, and that's point number.
