ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-005-005.u1	5. Announcement of time limits for the submission of proposals to members of the mandate and immunity committee and candidates for the President, Vice-President and verifier of the Chamber of Deputies Once again, I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-005-005.u2	Thank you again for the floor. Good afternoon on behalf of the Election Commission. As I have informed you, the electoral commission first sat down last week on Wednesday, 3 November and, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, adopted its resolution number 5. In this resolution, the electoral commission set time limits for the submission of proposals to members of the mandate and immunity committee, as well as for candidates for the President of the Chamber of Deputies, for candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and for candidates for the verifiers of the Chamber of Deputies. Pursuant to this resolution, number 5 of 3 November 2021, I am now asking the MPs to submit their written proposals. I will repeat once again - first of all, the members of the mandate and immunity committee, secondly, the candidates for the President of the Chamber of Deputies, thirdly, the candidates for the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies and the candidates for the House's verifiers, to the Secretariat of the Election Commission, today by 8 November to 17 o'clock. The deadline is today's 17 o'clock. It's here in this building, second floor, room number A209. I would also like to inform you of further progress. Immediately after this deadline, the electoral committee will meet, today at 6 p.m., when it discusses the nominations received, whether they comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, namely Art. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) 3 point 2 of the electoral order so that the Chamber of Deputies can appoint a mandate and an immune committee, subsequently make the election of the President, the Vice-Presidents, and also approve the nomination of the verifiers of the Chamber of Deputies. [[15.00 hours]] Since there is a 24-hour deadline between submitting nominations and the election itself, this will continue - and information will be given about this in a few moments - the House meeting in the next days. So, once again, I would like to ask the parliamentary clubs to submit all the nominations today within 17 hours, then to meet at 18 o'clock, then to run the 24-hour deadline. And the latest intel from me. I would also like to inform you that the electoral commission, as part of its resolution number 5, has commissioned the Secretary of the Commission, Mr Michal Marčík, to accept all nominations from the parliamentary clubs on behalf of the electoral committee and subsequently inform the members of the parliamentary clubs of all nominations received. At the same time, the Election Commission has agreed that the Secretary may be present in the election room at the time of the secret elections and in the processing of the results of these elections. That's all I'm saying. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-08-ps2021-001-01-005-005.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking, does anyone have any questions about the election committee president's speech? I don't see anyone, so I'm done discussing this point. Ladies and gentlemen, since we cannot discuss further points until the end of the legal time limits, I will now interrupt the sitting and meet again on 10 November, Wednesday, after a preliminary agreement and on the basis of certain practices at 10 o'clock. This creates room for the meetings of the parliamentary clubs and the electoral commission. I am interrupting the setting-up meeting by 10 November until 10.00 when we will start discussing the electoral committee's proposal to establish a mandate and an immune committee. Thank you for your attention.
