ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u1	489. Information from the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs on the drawdown of Antivirus A and B and on the checks launched by the Labour Office I ask that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Mrs. Jana Maláčová take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, third time today already, I will try to be very brief. I would like to make six basic points on this point. I guess I don't have to introduce the Antivirus program. We have mode A, mode B, we had mode C. One comment: because it was very much discussed here last week in connection with the extension of the emergency situation, I would point out that Mode A does not pay the sickness companies, but only the employee's quarantine. Of course, it also concerns wage compensation for closure or limitation of operations as a result of government crisis and emergency measures. That means it doesn't concern the sick as such, if there's a contagion, it means isolation, but only quarantine. [[15.30 hours]] Second, in terms of statistics, I have some very current figures for you today, that is, January 27th, although I would also like to point out that the MPSV, which means the resort that I have been leading transparently since the announcement of the emergency situation in March last year, on a regular basis, publishes every day all data relating to crisis measures, that is, every Monday you will find updated data for Antivirus on the MPSV website. I'm also trying to communicate with social media. As far as the statistics are concerned, we have supported 67 000 companies in Mode A and B to date, 67 613 exactly, meaning every fourth company in the Czech Republic. Overall, we supported 935 619 employees from Antivirus A and B, including each fourth employee. Overall, we paid CZK 2 772 399 contributions of CZK 26.3 billion. In mode C, although this is not the subject of today's negotiations, we supported more than 128 000 employers and their 750 000 employees, in total we forgave insurance premiums for CZK 13.3 billion. If I were to - but the details are likely to be processed into some more complex material, such as the first anniversary of the Antivirus program, but you will also find it, as I said, every Monday on the MPSV website - so the strongest support for the Antivirus program was April, it drew 7.3 billion and was supported by almost 590,000 employees. The smallest aid by calendar month was in September, when we spent 693 million and less than 110,000 employees were supported. There is also a regional breakdown in the regular Monday statistics, etc. I think it's very interesting how we change the ratio between pumping modes A and B over each month. It is, of course, a curve that follows the development of pandemics and government anti-crisis measures or extraordinary measures, and it is worth noting that the most prevailing in March was regime A, which had a share of 56 percent in total drawdown. In December, because January isn't over, mode A had a share in Antivirus 11 percent. Again I note that you will find the most concrete, very detailed breakdown on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. One thing I would like to stress is that we have been dealing with all the detailed data for the last almost a year, and with all the experience of drawing up and operating the Antivirus programme, which is based on the Employment Act, on the relevant paragraph, we have used it to prepare the cursarbeit, which, I hope, in the next two weeks, namely 10 February, we will finally approve at third reading, so that we can then put it into operation. But now to the fourth area that you're probably very interested in, and that's Antivirus controls. With regard to the checks of points A and B, from the start of the programme until 25 January, the Labour Office started 1 218 A and B checks, which is 1.8 % of the total number of companies supported. This means: as far as the number of companies is concerned, we checked 1.8 per cent, out of the number of 1 218 checks, we ended about 73 per cent of the checks, which is exactly 884 checks, and 932 million crowns were checked. Of the above mentioned number of completed checks occurred for 357 employers - i.e. a sample of 1,8 % of companies were in doubt by 357 employers and this resulted in either a partial or a full refund of the contribution of a total amount of CZK 62 million. Out of the total number of 357 employers audited for whom the Labour Office found error, a total of 308 employers returned the allowance in part, and the remaining 49 employers had to repay the full contribution. This means, from a total sample of 1,8 % of the employers checked, absolute number 1 218, of which 49 returned the full contribution. Again in more detail - I guess there is no room for this, but we can get to it within the discussion of a large written evaluation of the annual operation of the Antivirus program - I will read it according to the most frequent incidence of findings. The most common established error was the error of average earnings, then the premium was not paid before the contribution was granted, the replacement of the gross wage for compensation for wages, and then it was found that the statutory representative had concluded contracts with himself, which is very badly, the claimed contribution did not fall into an acceptable period - very frequent error - and so on and so on, the details will probably be provided in writing. What can be done for Mode A and B in the event of a finding? I know that this has been dealt with a lot, especially at the end of last year. Our goal is to help companies - I guess I don't have to stress that Antivirus is the most successful government anti-crisis program based on surveys, I think I appreciate most the Chamber of Commerce survey - and the procedure, if we find fault, is as follows. The Antivirus programme clearly states that the contribution is provided as a reimbursement of expenditure incurred, i.e. compensation for wages paid, including legal contributions. This is signed under the so-called bilateral agreement between the Labour Office and the employer. The conditions of the Antivirus programme have been sufficiently communicated and are also fixed in a written contract between the Labour Office and the company. The agreement, which is a document providing the contribution, then obliges the employer to refund the allowance for the relevant calendar month if the payment of remuneration and statutory contributions was made only after the corresponding allowance was provided by the Labour Office. The Antivirus programme, the written contribution agreement or the applicable legislation does not give the Labour Office or the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs the opportunity to depart from this procedure and to forgive the refund, even if the payment of compensation for wages and contributions took place only a few days later than the prescribed written agreement. However, since the aim of Antivirus is to help companies, the following procedure is possible. If the employer does not return the relevant part of the contribution to the call of the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, it is a breach of budgetary discipline, which is passed on to the competent financial authority for further resolution. In such a case, the General Financial Directorate may, for reasons of appropriate special consideration, pardon, in whole or in part, the contribution for breach of budgetary discipline or penalty for default. That's the procedure with Antivirus A and B. I am just stressing that this concerns 49 employers from a total of 67 613 companies. As far as point C is concerned, on 25 January this year there was actually a failure to meet the conditions for payment of insurance premiums for 7 905 companies from more than 327 000 applications. In fact, for those less than 8,000 companies, the total amount of 327 000 claims was paid late, which is 2.4 percent of the cases. However, some of these companies pay premiums late more or less on a regular basis, almost half of the companies out of 7 905 cases were more than two days late, the average length of delay is four days in these cases. The following procedure can be applied there - we communicated again because the aim of Antivirus, whether A and B or C, is to help companies in this very crisis time. [[15.40 hours]] We don't want to harm or hurt anyone. We realise that entrepreneurs need funding as soon as possible. This means that we apply the following: we cannot forgive insurance failure to fulfil the conditions or by means of proceedings to eliminate the hardness of the law. The legislation on fiscal liability does not know any hardness that would occur when the premiums are paid. Therefore, in the field of social security premiums, only periodic penalty payments may be waived by means of the removal of the hardness of the law in justified cases, in accordance with the provisions of Section 104 (b). ch). This means that we are trying within the legal, legal limits - and I warn you that in Antivirus C, this was the law that we agreed here together - within the legal limits we are also trying to help those companies that did not fulfil the condition of proper payment of insurance. The Ministry of Social Security and the Czech Social Security Administration will, in justified cases, pardon the penalty which arose as a result of a close failure to comply with the condition of proper payment of insurance premiums. We will forgive businesses for the penalty and it will have the same effect as if MPSV allowed them to postpone insurance without any penalties. And once again, it was 7 905 cases out of a total of 327 000 applications. Last two intel. You'll be interested to know how quickly we're cashing in the Antivirus program, because the fast-giving guy is giving twice. Of course, this varies from month to month depending on how high the intensity of the requests is. I mentioned the worst in April, the least interest in Antivirus was in September and the average is seven days. However, the region from the region is different, that is, in most cases it is less than seven days and the month from the month it is also different. If there's a smaller idea, it's much faster than the seven days mentioned. Last update. I get frequent questions about how it will be after February of this year, because as far as the amendment to the Cursarbeit Act is concerned, we have not progressed as quickly as we need to. We will see if we can complete the legislative process by the end of February. However, at this point, everything seems to be on track. You may know that the European Commission is negotiating with all EU Member States to extend and increase the temporary framework. At this point, an increase of EUR 800 000 is being negotiated to double. The Czech Republic is even asking for an increase in the temporary framework to EUR 3 million for each individual company, but it is the sum of all state aid and is negotiated that this would be an extension of the temporary framework by the end of this year. The decision should be made in the order of days, and if it succeeds, we could extend the Antivirus program until the cursarbeit programme has been approved and implemented so that we can support all forms in this very difficult time. Perhaps I have answered all the important questions and, if necessary, I will be very happy to complete the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The original plaintiff of this point was President Stanjura, who apparently is not here at the moment. I ask, would someone else from the club or who is interested take up the role of rapporteur? And then the person would be the best rapporteur. Madam Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u4	Mr. Chairman, I'd like a ten-minute recess, please. Thank you. I'm sorry, but my colleague has to run. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u5	So, at the request of the ODS Club, I'm declaring a break until 15.53.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we will continue the negotiations. Our meeting on point Information of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the drawing of Antivirus A and B and on the checks that the Labour Office has launched, we have interrupted at the request of the ODS club after the opening word of the Minister, so I will now ask the plaintiff of this point, which is Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, to take the floor, and we have already spoken and will not become rapporteur. This honor will fall on someone else. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u7	I will ask one of my colleagues or colleagues to take up the honorary role of rapporteur. We included this point sometime in the autumn, we get to it at the end of January, and thanks to that time we can also evaluate the practical functioning of all three Antivirus A, B, C programs. If you remember, those of you who read the state budget results last year, one of those sheets that the Ministry of Finance regularly publishes the results of the management, is also a list of assistance for the covid. Obviously, in my opinion, the most successful program was Antivirus C. Simple, without bureaucracy and spared small employers approximately 13.5 billion Czech crowns. If you add up the dozens of lines where there are individual grant titles that are so chanting by individual ministers, and you add up really paid money in all grant titles, you'll find that this isn't the way. We have quite different views with the Minister, especially on the Antivirus B programme, but I did not even want to include that point and discuss the substance of these programmes, because they were originally to end in July, then in September, then in October, then in December, and as we are dragging the debate on cursarbeit, the programs are still running. In fact, I have no objection to Antivirus A. With Antivirus B, I think it should be over, but I respect the political reality and political will of the government, and I don't want to burden today's debate with whether Antivirus B should have ended or not. He goes on and will continue at least until the end of February, or I think until he's effective cursarbeit, if I may say so in short. But there has been one negative experience with these programs, and I would say it's too harsh for sanctions. I have one particular case ahead of me - not one, but one. Madam Secretary, don't be mad, I'm not going to name the company, at least not on the microphone, but I can tell you that it's the decision of the Prague Social Security Administration. Now I'm not gonna read the official document, but in a simple way. This company drew on Antivirus C as it was possible, including in July and August. This was drawn by simply calculating the right to a discount, you report it and send for this sum of the reduced item. According to the law for July, the insurance was to be paid - the rest, which means it was rarely completely zero in the company until August 20th. The inspection came and found that the payment was credited to the account of the Prague Social Security Administration on 21 August, thus one day late. Try to answer each of you the question of how the Czech state represented by the Prague Social Security Administration responded, what sanctions were. The sanctions were 100%! You do not have a legal claim for this aid, therefore the legal discount is zero, therefore you owe several tens of thousands of crowns, and we would like to warn you that until the payment of this amount due you will receive a legal penalty. On August 20th, they were to pay no later than August 21st. The same has happened to this company, and we can speculate on the reasons - sick accountants, the hesitation of an external firm - it is, in my opinion, a minor administrative error, it is, without a doubt, an error. They were supposed to pay for August by September 20th, and it was credited to September 25th, so in this case the delay was five days. The company doesn't even have 50 employees. I'm guessing there's about 20, maybe a little less. During August and July, the Prague Administration simply recognized nothing at all, so it announced that it owed CZK 171 917, and that includes a penalty payment, which is already in the order of thousands of crowns. And I want to ask the legislators whether it really was our intention to help the company roughly by saving CZK 85,000 a month for contributions for its employees to keep jobs, and it will happen that it will pay once a day and 85,000 is zero, and one day it will be paid five days later, and again out of 85,000 is zero, whether it really was our intention. [[16.10 hours]] Not ours, then. I'm gonna be responsible for our MP club, and I don't want to wind up the debate. It would be quite enough for me if the Minister said that he considered it unfair, as we do, too drastic, and that, for example, the penalty would be the same as if he didn't pay for September, when Antivirus C was no longer, and if they paid instead of October 20, October 21, the penalty would be 0.1 percent of the amount due, if I'm not mistaken, maybe even lower. I can understand that. That would seem fair to me, because there's a slight penalty for minor misconduct. Here for minor misconduct in a delay of one day or five days, there is a draconian penalty and state aid is zero. I think it's enough to change the terms of the program. Good will is enough to do it. Madam Secretary says there's a law. Then have the secretary change the law. I don't think so, and there are legal analyses that have a different legal opinion. But so be it, let's not think about what instrument to use to change it. Let us seek an instrument so that the sanctions are not so drastic and so unfair. And if it has to be the way to change the law, I'm offering for us that it can be very fast, or if it's going to be a change in a methodical order or individual request, which is the worst way to do it, to let it go for somebody who individually decides that they can cut, or any company can ask for a reduction in hardness, I wouldn't consider that happy. But this is a way that lowers trust, of course, businessmen will say it among themselves, there are dozens of these cases. I'm not saying there are thousands, but there are dozens, and it's a terrible shame. The state here is saving in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u8	Thank you. At this point, I would like to open the debate, if I may, and Mrs Richterová is here, but Minister Maláčová wants to respond with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u9	Thank you, I will respond very quickly. This item is called Antivirus A and B, but if I understand correctly, President Stanjura wants to talk about C. It's probably about C, because otherwise we wouldn't be talking about drafts. Okay, never mind, let's talk about all the Antivirus items, but let's get this straight. I explained it very closely. President Stanjura wasn't here, we took a 20-minute break, too, and I'm gonna say it again. I understand the cases, and we're registering cases where companies paid insurance one day later, and because of that, they're losing their support. I am very sorry, because the Antivirus programme is intended to help companies in these very difficult critical pandemic times. I think we also agree that Antivirus is the best-functioning anti-crisis program. Believe that we have spent a lot of time at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to make it a quick, administratively undemanding, efficient program that saves jobs and saves companies. I'm not going to talk about almost a million A and B employees and hundreds of thousands of C employees. But I'm going to explain why, and I'm going to repeat it one more time, why it's very complicated in this C. Let's talk about it then. The number of employers supported in Antivirus C is 128 000, a total of 750 000 employees for CZK 13.3 billion. However, the law establishing the insurance payment process concerned 327 000 claims at the time. 327,000! And out of the 327,000, 7 905, I'm sorry, 7 905 to 25 January, paid with a delay, which means 2.4 percent of the cases. Some of these 327 000 companies pay insurance late more or less regularly. Nearly half of the businesses were longer than two days and the average length of delays was almost four days. And the law in this is clear. By the 20th of the following month, social security is to be paid, and this is laid down by law. It's the law, and it's been for a very long time. And that's not the case with Antivirus C, because when we're here this law, and it's an amendment to the law, it's an amendment to the law, it's been discussed, so no one questioned the 20th day of the month. And if we wanted to make a change, it's a change of law, and it's still a retroactive few months ago. I've been communicating with some of you over the last few months about whether we can access the whole system by eliminating the hardness of the law. I can't. I'll describe the tech procedure one more time. This cannot be done, the failure to fulfil the conditions cannot be excused, nor can it be done in the form of a procedure for the removal of hardness, because the legislation, when it comes to fiscal obligations, does not know any hardness that would occur in the payment of insurance premiums. In the field of social security contributions, only periodic penalty payments under § 104 (b) may be waived by means of the removal of the hardness of the law in justified cases. ch). That means it's not possible, but we don't want those companies that are late a day, and the case is tragic, which you name, so we don't want to liquidate them in any way, but the maximum we can forgive them is the penalty, and the Czech Social Security Administration approaches this way. If these are not notorious non-payers - we also have enough of such cases - we will not require these firms to do no more damage. But at the same time change the law - and once again I say 327,000 requests and delays at 7,305 of them, as the 320,000 companies that managed to pay for it on time would have come to this. This means that the solution that we are proposing is to forgive the penalty if it is not a notorious non-payer, and I would like to justify and stress this once again, and then the real question is that we would postpone insurance without any penalties. I know that in the Antivirus C case, it's that they lost that month. I know they didn't get help. But this change in probably a few cases would result in us having to re-retroactively change the law that would affect 327 000 companies overall. And I think it's unsystemic. And once again, I wouldn't want it to be misinterpreted. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs is helping companies. I think that apart from Antivirus A, B, C, we were very fast, in the order of days, we helped the tradesmen - we forgot their insurance for six months and I think it was extremely quick and important in March - but at this point we must approach this systemically. And when we were discussing this law on Antivirus C, we were going over it, and none of the honourable Members and Members questioned the date of the 20th month following. The question is, if we start discussing that we're going to re-retroactively change that date, if that's what it's supposed to be. I think it's a purely hypothetical discussion, I'd hate to admit it. But if we did, how would we set it up? Would we talk about the day? A week? Or would we set up an interval there and say, social contributions have to be paid 20th of the following month plus minus a week or ten days? Where would that line be again, and how would it be established, on what grounds? That means, I understand, but it's really a very theoretical discussion, and it's basically unfair to reverse the rules of the game when 320,000 companies have fulfilled those conditions. It would be very unsystemic. And once again, it's unfair to say that MPSV isn't trying to help companies. What we really care about is not destroying anyone in this very difficult time. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u10	Thank you. We are in a debate and President Stanjura wants, I presume, to speak with priority rights. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u11	I don't think my secretary and I have an understanding. I didn't call or suggest a change in term 20. I don't think we understand each other. It's okay, it's been in use, it's been in effect for years, and I have no reason, no argument, why would I say it's supposed to be 21st or 18th? I wanted something else. I told you that if this happened to the company in a normal month when Antivirus C wasn't, that it would pay a day, two or five days later, then it would proceed according to § 20 para. 1 Act 589 on social security contributions, contributions to state employment policy, and periodic penalty payments are payable. [[16.20 hours]] That's okay, and I'm even saying they're supposed to pay the penalty, but not lose all the support. In other words, if this particular example is 171,000, the penalty for that day is 85,000. The penalty may be CZK 500 or CZK 1,000, but the penalty is actually 85,000 for being a day late. Or, as the secretary said, imagine, four days on average. Does the government really work so that it's never late for its operation for four days? Is that what somebody's telling me? So I'm suggesting, and I don't think it's for a change in the law not to be sanctions of 100 per cent of withdrawal, and if it takes 0.5 per cent a day and paid five days later, they don't get 100 per cent of the aid, but 99.5 per cent, they're gonna get the penalty. [[necessary]] That seems fair to me. I'm not talking about the penalty for that day if it were in a normal month, but the penalty is brutal in the fact that the company is losing 85,000 in a month. I have a protocol here, so we know the protocol behind control, which, of course, wasn't just about the Antivirus C period. She ran to let you know, from 1 June 2018 to 30 November 2020. This company should have paid CZK 3 045 767 and paid them all, but because for July and August 2020 a day and five days later, suddenly it has an underpayment of CZK 171 000. Of course, she didn't pay when she turned down zero under Antivirus C. In order to understand each other, the problem is that the penalty is 100 per cent relief and then the penalty for late payment. I say it's right that the sanctions for days of delay be the same as in other cases, but don't take back their support while they're, really, don't be mad at me for really four days. This is a tragedy - even in the same month in which it is due - it has been declared revenue from the state budget. That's the problem. Not that the term 20 was artificially changed to 21st or 25th to accommodate anyone, but that the penalty is 100 percent relief. That's the problem. Plus the penalty. So our proposal is: leave the relief and the penalty to calculate according to the rules as in every other month. And then it's fair, then no one's privileged, and it's not even at the expense of those companies, the 320,000 you've been talking about, who made it. The aid was received and the penalty was not paid because they paid on time. Those who have such a small delay a day or five should, in our opinion, receive support and pay penalty for one or five days when they have paid it late. It's not that complicated. It seems logical to me, it seems fair to me even to those who received the support, and I think the others won't complain that "I paid 20th and my colleague, who has a business on the same street in my city, paid 21st, so I get 85,000 more than he does." I don't think that's gonna work, and everyone will understand that they're gonna pay a day or five penalty payments like any other tax or insurance policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u12	Thank you. The Minister will again respond with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u13	Mr President, we're talking about the same thing, except everyone has it from a different end. It also seems tragic to me, especially at this pandemic time, and I would very much like it not to happen to any company because the aim of Antivirus A, B, C was to help companies. It really was the target. However, the law is clear. And if the law wasn't fulfilled, it just can't be - the company just couldn't deduct the contributions. That's how it's set. The only thing we can do at this point is to this firm, unless it's a notorious non-payer or a late-payer, to forgive the penalty. I know it's a weak substitute, I know it's a small patch, but at least it's something we can do at the moment, and the Czech administration is treating it this way. The legal condition for reducing insurance premiums was not met and the company was not entitled to reduce anything. But once again, we believe that it is not possible without the amendment of the law, and if we start to consider, and believe that we have considered it, that we would change the law backwards, it is very unsystemic. It's unsystemic because most companies did it and it would be unfair to them, so other companies just did it and this small number of companies didn't. But at the same time, if there was a simpler approach, believe me, I would fight for each individual company, because it is especially small Czech companies that deserve the support of the state. And that's how we composed the Antivirus C program. We wanted to help small Czech companies, which were most in trouble. So we're talking about the same thing, we're looking for a way, the law doesn't allow it, and the change in the law would be very unsystemic and unfair to the vast majority of companies. This is how we want to approach it. And eliminating the hardness of the law is not possible in this case. So once again, I appeal, but I'd like to explain some more details, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u14	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová, who is duly entered in the debate, and therefore, according to the previous agreement, she will become a rapporteur on this point, if no one objects. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u15	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I accept the role of rapporteur and I will try to recapitulate because I have also been very detailed about this since September, and when the Minister here says that he is writing with some of us, I am among them. The subject is twofold. On the one hand, the error in the original Antiviral proposal proved that there were no remedies. And this is the basis. The fact that there are no appeals came out at the end of August or, as in September, it was possible to correct this as of September. That didn't happen. On 16 September, I wrote the first letter, the first interpellation to the Minister, where I asked for adequate access. That's what my previous speaker said to send a company that makes a mistake a day, two days later, to have a slight penalty - mild in terms of 0.5 %, 1%, etc. There was an answer that I couldn't. Then we were together in Václav Moravec's questions, and I then sent a wish to enforce a breach of budgetary discipline, because this would be related to reduced contributions to the state budget, graduated according to the level of the breach. And that's what came out as an "A" solution, "B" to 4. 12. I just don't know how much it's been promoted. But there's still a huge problem with the C. Madam Secretary will correct me if he doesn't agree to anything, but the fact remains that the fundamental problem has not been corrected, that there are no remedies in the bill and that the Ministry has not taken up the solution to this matter of my nature, the possibility of removing the hardness of the law. On top of that, it needs to be said that what we all witness is that our state is very strict on people, on companies, and is not strict on itself, then undermines confidence in the whole functioning of state institutions. That is why I consider it so crucial to pursue this and find a solution. The solution really lies in the possibility of removing hardness within the meaning of § 4 para. 3 of Law No. 582/1991 Coll. The legal analysis that the Ministry is doing is simply inexhaustible, it is not based on the fact that the paragraph and the paragraph are deliberately written very generally and very vaguely, precisely because the legislators who approved it back in 1990-1991 well knew that it was impossible to predict all situations, because if the law defined what hardness it was, there could be a situation that he would not have remembered. And that's what I'm trying to stress. This law, this provision gives this possibility essentially enormous freedom, huge reflections on how to resolve almost any situation. Basically, an analogy in the tax system can be helped. There is a similar provision in the tax system, which allows not only to forgive fines and periodic penalty payments, but also the entire tax. And if this is possible in similar situations in tax administration, I don't see why it shouldn't go with insurance. And as far as case law goes, there are precedents. For example, there is an interpretation that the very concept of hardness of the law is not and cannot be the subject of legislative interpretation, because it is precisely an indefinite legal concept to be used where it is not possible or appropriate for it to be defined in the legislation. [[16.30 hours]] Why is that? This clearly explains the Supreme Administrative Court. I just want to show that if the Ministry wanted to do this comprehensive research that my team did in an effort to help the affected companies, and it might also need to turn to a specific consultation. There's some kind of legal literature. For example, there is an article or chapter in the Legal Views The process of removing the hardness of the law. It is possible to choose clear and objective criteria of that type of violation - one day, two days violation, four days infringement - and then of course apply it to all cases equally. That's for sure. But the law gives this field what criteria to choose. As the Minister said, it is possible to take into account who is the so-called chronic "late-payer" and who, on the contrary, has been exemplary for years, maybe now the payroll accountant has gotten sick, then lost a day, two later, and lost tens and sometimes hundreds of thousands for the whole month's support. I would like to stress one final point. It would be a decision that is fully in favour of the taxpayer, so that no one would be harmed, and at the time when we are discussing it this way, it is pointless that the support of companies should, unfortunately, lead to their liquidation in some cases, I consider it excluded that any legal problems could be involved. The provisions of Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 3 is, I'm going to say it again, deliberately written in such a general and unspecific way that it can be used if the ministerial lawyers want to. Thank you for your attention and I will be happy to respond to the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u16	Thank you. Yes, Madam Secretary has signed up for the debate, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u17	Thank you. I think it's a rather technocratic discussion, and that's why I'm going to translate it into an understandable speech. Mrs Richterová basically says: I have asked Minister Maláčová to act illegally since September. Of course, I could have proposed a change to the law, but I didn't, namely: Antivirus supported and saved 1.3 million jobs, but there are dozens of companies that didn't fit into the support, and that's why we're going to say that Antivirus doesn't work because I'm in that luxury position, that I'm not responsible and I don't have to hold the system together. That's basically what we're talking about here. I understand that dozens of companies didn't fit into this program because they sent insurance overdue. I am very sorry, but I also have to - and it is my duty - hold some kind of system and some kind of framework. Back to change the system that was or is functional for the vast majority of the participants, and we are talking about Antivirus C - 98 percent of companies, more than 98 percent of companies - is simply non-systemic. I'm sorry, but it's unsystemic. Although I'm very sorry and I'd like every company that's entitled to enter Antivirus C or A and B, I'm sorry, but we have to set that limit somewhere. We set it up. When we were discussing this law, no one questioned it, and it would be unfair to all the other companies that did it, and with great effort. A large part of the companies had a huge problem getting through that 20th day, and yet they did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u18	Mrs Richterová will want to respond in the debate, I suppose. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u19	I'm convinced, Madam Secretary, that I didn't ask for anything like this, what you're pushing. I was writing something else - on September 16th I asked for adequate access. And what was possible was not retroactively, but for the future to modify the wording of antivir, so that it no longer lacks remedies, that the Ministry did not propose remedies for it to heal this. That's one thing. And the second thing: that the Ministry's legal team is very focused on not discussing the solution - a solution to possible elimination of hardness. And there's a buried dog. The dog is buried in the fact that we have deliberately written legislation so that it allows for an approach in such cases, which is quite extraordinary, in pandemic cases and the like, that would not be acceptable in any other situation. What I am trying to say is that in a situation where we all agree - Madam Secretary, you yourself express great regret and say that it is actually illogical and tragic enough, when some companies return hundreds of thousands of crowns for error within one day, or, and that has not yet been mentioned here, those firms then enforce the damage after the payroll accountants, even after people who may have been ill, and therefore sent it late - so it is really tragic for human fate that the damage, the amount of the problem, is not in the order of units of percent of that amount, is not in the order of thousands of crowns, but it is in the order for a little larger companies of hundreds of thousands. This aspect that it really is a problem for many thousands of people - and you mentioned the number 7,900 companies, they're not tens - I think it's also obvious that tens of such companies have already turned to me, and I don't expect any of them to turn to me. This shows that there was a need for a solution, and unfortunately, the Ministry has decided to stick to its elderly lawyers, and not to pursue it since September, since it was known that this was a pretty big problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u20	Thank you. Madam Secretary will respond. Please, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, if necessary, raise your hands so that I do not have to keep my eyes open completely. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u21	The 7,900 companies are from the total number of entities that carry out social insurance. Several dozens are with Antivirus C, which concerns only companies up to 50 employees. That's what we need to match our numbers. You need to see it in context. Two arguments. The interpretation of the elimination of the hardness of the law is absolutely clear and it is not possible to interpret it legally in isolation but in context. The law doesn't have a single paragraph, but it needs to be seen in context. It concerns pension insurance, not insurance. This also needs to be distinguished. If I were to use the understandable analogy again - and now I apologize for making it a little bit tougher - but if I had to use an example to explain the analogy, it's 10 to 20 years for murder, and what the MP here is proposing, for example, to follow the legislation that concerns or deals with how to proceed with people who need to be removed from the driving licence. That's just two completely incomparable things, and you can't mix it. And once again, we wanted to help those companies, we were looking for a way, but it's not possible. I think we're really having this unnecessary discussion because we've been doing this at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for a few months, and I'm very sorry that there's a program as successful as the Antivirus program that saved 1.3 million - and we're talking about A, B, C and A+ - jobs, so there are dozens of cases - and dozens of cases in case C, because we're discussing C, even if the program is called A and B - that's being questioned. As far as the whole system is concerned, I am not inclined to change the whole system because I see no contribution to the future. At this point, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is not planning a program like Antivirus C. On the contrary, I firmly hope to have a functional cursarbeit in the coming weeks, as we have discussed here for six months. That means, please, let's not mix apples and pears together, it's unacceptable. It's not that lawyers at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs have been sitting there for years wanting to do the same. On the contrary, we need to respect those experts who are trying to keep a system together. And please don't blame each other for not trying to help, because Antivirus is the best example of the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is trying extremely hard to help all companies at this critical time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u22	Thank you. Mrs Richterová is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u23	Madam Secretary, I am very interested in finding a solution after all. I listened to you very carefully, and I heard you point out that you believe that the provision concerns pension insurance. But that's part of social security. So the question is, can't you at least forgive this? It would be a major part of the damage, and it would solve a great deal of the situation of the small companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u24	Thank you. We'll continue the debate if anybody checks in. If I see no one, I will end the debate. I'm going to ask if there's any interest in the final words after the general debate? Mrs Richterová is interested as rapporteur. Please. The rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u25	Thank you for the floor. The unanswered question shows the core of the poodle. I'm just trying to find a way, I don't care that a few dozen companies can go bankrupt because of this, I find it illogical. And if we could at least solve the pension insurance that's part of the social security, let's at least deal with that. From the legal analyses I have - I have only partially read the researches - we have done a very detailed analysis to eliminate the hardness of the law - we believe that there is room. There is no way that I would dare suggest a change in the matter of retroactive action, but we think that our legal order is not written wrong in this regard. As far as the substance is concerned, there's a great deal of rigour to people, a great deal of rigour to ordinary people and entrepreneurs, but a little bit of rigour to the authorities themselves, I think this is the case, and that's the situation where the office had to react and deal with it in September, when I filed the first interpellation, and when the first applications and the first complaints from the field had to come in. The first instructions were then up to 4. 12th, after I asked for it in writing again. On this point, I want to show that there is also great slowness, there was no effort to help immediately, and even that we are dealing with this at the request of the opposition, there is again a demonstration that the Ministry did not want to admit that it made a mistake that the remedies were missing and that at least these people had to be admitted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u26	Thank you. I did not want to interrupt you, Madame, because I do not know if it has gone beyond the scope of the rapporteur's final word, but a detailed debate will follow, so it would not be of major importance. Madam Secretary has reported to me, I suppose, also to the final word after the general debate. There, I suppose, isn't even an option, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u27	I won't comment on it anymore. I'll explain it to the lady of the house right now, because it's a really technical debate, it's really mixing apples and pears together. It's the fifth over nine. Please, there are always individual cases in every area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs where someone doesn't fit into any date or any amount, for the benefits it takes a crown, for insurance premiums it is also a crown or a day. That doesn't mean that the system is strict, but you always have to set a limit, someone always misses a crown, doesn't fit in and so on, and that doesn't mean that the system is strict or bad, but you always have to set it up somehow. Unfortunately, that's how laws are made, and that's how it works in life. So, please don't question the most successful government program that works extremely well, basically spit on the work of several thousand officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It looks good on social media, but it's unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u28	Thank you. Now, we should vote on the proposals, none have fallen, so we will now proceed to the detailed debate that I am opening with this - if anyone wants to come forward in a detailed debate, I do not see anyone. Mrs Richterová is still interested. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u29	I have a very brief motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is asking for a written statement of the reasons why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs believes that it is not possible to apply the elimination of the hardness of the law'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u30	Thank you for the suggestion. Please hand it over yourself or distribute it. I see Mrs Černochová is still reporting. You have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u31	I will give an additional resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a proposal for measures to mitigate disproportionately high sanctions for the Anticovid C programme."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u32	Thank you. I will also ask for a written transmission to the rapporteur. And if no one else is reporting for a detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I'm gonna ask again if there's any interest in final words? No, in that case, we will now vote on resolutions. I will ask the rapporteur to take her place or to prepare individual proposals. I know they were last-minute, so the processing might take a while. In the meantime, I've called my colleagues to the O.R., and they're all coming in slowly. [[Once again, the President is gonging.]] For those who are coming: we will vote on two motions for resolutions on this point. Their text completion is now underway. And if all those who are logged in are present, I will wait for the rapporteur. I will ask the rapporteur to take her place and introduce us to the proposals and to propose a procedure that I believe will not be complicated. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u33	Thank you for the floor. The procedure is simple. I propose to vote in the order in which the proposals were tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u34	Thank you. Well, that's obvious. I will just point out that Mrs Richterová's proposal was first tabled, and Mrs Černochová made the second proposal. So I'm going to vote on this procedure just in case. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the procedure for us to vote gradually on both proposals? Who's against procedure? Thank you. In the vote, order number 213, 93 Members and Members are enrolled, for 70, against no one. I'll ask for a first proposal if there's no other request. So, please, first draft, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u35	The first proposal is brief: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government of the Czech Republic to send a written statement as to why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs believes that in these cases it is not possible to eliminate the hardness of the law."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u36	Thank you. So the motion was made. I'm opening the vote on order 214, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 214, 93 Members and Members shall be registered, for 41, against 4. The motion was not accepted. Now there's a request for cancellation before the next vote, so I've checked you all out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. If the number of applicants has stabilized and it seems that way, I will ask for a second motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u37	Second proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government of the Czech Republic to submit a proposal for measures to mitigate disproportionately high sanctions for the Antivirus C programme."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-020-489.u38	Thank you. That was the motion for a resolution. Initiating vote 215. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 86 Members and Members in the 215 vote, for 37, against 2. Nor has this proposal been adopted. This should be all the motions for resolutions, if that is the case. Yes. So no motion for a resolution has been approved. That's how we ran out of this point. Thank you, Minister, thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Let's move on to the next point, and that's point number.
