ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u1	3. Information of the Minister for Health on the current state of vaccination I will ask the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch again to inform us of the state of vaccination. And I expect applications for the debate so I can talk to someone about who will be the rapporteur. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. As far as this point is concerned, this means the current state of vaccination against COVID-19 disease, so I can tell about the basic data at the outset, which are the most recent ones available on the basis of the statement in the system, on the day of yesterday at 20:00, when there is an update, when 4 924 951 doses were reported, i.e. nearly 5 million administered doses of COVID-19 vaccination, with about 3.5 million unique persons receiving at least one dose of vaccination, and for about 1.3 million people already being completed, that is to say, they are fully vaccinated within the two doses, if it is a two-dose vaccination schedule, or for one Johnson vaccine it is a single dose schedule. As far as the whole process is concerned, from my point of view, vaccination is going well. I think that the vaccination centres are really going to the full capacity they are able to offer within both the central vaccination centre, e.g. within Prague, as well as within the regions. The situation works fine. I can at least say experience here, although I have already said that I resigned as chairman of the board of directors, but in any case in the Ústí Region as some typical region in this regard, I think that the situation is good, that people are actually getting to the dates of vaccination, that there are no major delays. It is true that these groups of other age groups were opened, which means 35+ on Sunday, 30+ on Wednesday. So there's actually some idea of new candidates, even though it has to be objectively said that the interest is not as strong as we might all want it to be. It will certainly be true that we will have to focus more on this generation, the younger generation, on some communication. There is no doubt that this will be linked to the introduction of the covid passports, which is some topic that we are sure to face. I know there was a debate here about the introduction of a file of passports in the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday. I'm sure we're still gonna make the law. I think that as it was presented, it is not completely feasible at the moment. But in any case, we're going to want those covid passports to be incorporated into the legislation, because they have to be incorporated into legislation especially for cross-border travel, so that people show that they are being vaccinated, tested, of course, or have experienced the disease. We are also coming out of the regulation that has been adopted in this regard. So these are the things that are definitely going to lead, I think, even to motivate the younger generation to get vaccinated. But other than that, I think that the actual delivery of vaccines is working without any major problems so far. We expect to receive a total of 3 million doses of vaccines from manufacturers in May, so in this respect they are doses, especially from Pfizer, when we have a view. As far as June is concerned, we expect them to be around 600,000 a week for the whole of June, as far as the Comirnata vaccine is concerned, which we are primarily relying on in that volume. As far as July is concerned, we don't have the information yet, but in June, we do. As far as Modern is concerned, we expect some 70 to 80,000 doses per week to take place in the Czech Republic in June. In July, deliveries will be almost 95,000 a week. Supplies are not yet known at AstraZeneca and Janssen, i.e. they are vaccines, where unfortunately we do not yet know the delivery more than 14 days in advance. You know that unfortunately with these vaccines in general over the last few months, there have been problems in terms of meeting the ordered volumes, i.e. deliveries of these vaccines, so unfortunately, we don't have the information completely accurate here. It's more certain with the rest of them. Of course, practical doctors were involved, although also with problems within individual regions, which may not always be given only by the central system, but perhaps also by the willingness of some practitioners to be vaccinated. It is agreed that the general practitioners will be directly involved in the Moderna vaccine and only the amount needed to obtain the second dose will be allocated to the vaccination sites. This means the primary vaccines, where the vaccine should simply be allocated primarily to the primary care network, i.e. to general practitioners. And it will certainly be necessary for practical doctors to make the most of this and inoculate their patients, invite them for vaccinations. I will certainly want to meet with the representatives of practitioners very soon, with whom we have very good relationships personally, so I think I will simply appeal to them so that the practical doctors in this regard will help us as much as possible, because there is undoubtedly a part of patients who are simply waiting for vaccinations with practitioners and do not want to inoculate themselves in those large, large-capacity vaccination centres for some reason. I think it's probably for the introduction. [[10.50 hours]] Of course, we can talk about vaccination in individual age categories. I have the numbers here, but I think they're also available, so it's certainly not necessary to read them here, from the highest category 80+ to the current open category 30+. But the positive thing is that we have a pretty good shot at the risk population and that this is undoubtedly reflected on the question of hospitalized patients. I think that today we can say with certainty on the basis of the experience that vaccination really prevents hospital capacity from being filled, especially in those intensive beds. It is undoubtedly quite clear for health professionals and social workers that their illness has dropped significantly after they have been vaccinated. So there's really no argument here that vaccinations in this direction prevent the development of the disease, especially in the difficult course. And all of you doctors from hospitals, I think, must feel this very well within the individual workplaces, that indeed the number of patients from risk groups who end up on beds, whether standard or especially intensive care, has fallen significantly. So we're going to continue with this. I'm sure we'll be ready for autumn vaccination. We will undoubtedly need to start selecting a distributor or health insurance company to start selecting a distributor for the Comirnata vaccine. As regards the distributor for other vaccines, there is the completion of the procurement documents. We need to be prepared for this next period, when we have ordered more deliveries quite significant, and we simply need to have ensured distribution, both in terms of adult practitioners and probably also in terms of practical physicians for children and adolescents, because - and this is something that also, let's say, bubbles within the public space and media debate - the EMA assessment is being carried out on the registration and approval of children over 12 years of age and over with the vaccine from Pfizer/BioNTech. We don't have the final information yet. We expect this decision to come very soon at the turn of the month, and then actually the bar would be reduced from 16 years to 12 years, that is, from 12 years above these younger people, children, could also be vaccinated both within the vaccination centers and in the future certainly in some medium term we expect the involvement of practical physicians for children and adolescents who have contact with a child patient and his family, his parents. So this could also help, let's say, especially when it comes to schools, because we know that children aren't primarily those who are threatened with some serious disease, but they may be the carriers to the families. I think we already have a fairly rich experience here, that it really can lead to some deterioration in the situation by actually transferring the infection from a children's team to an adult within the family. That is why I think it is appropriate to consider vaccination of this younger generation. But again, we are waiting for the opinion of the European Medicines Agency on how it will stand. That's what I think at first, hopefully, the information, is enough and I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, and before I give the floor to the plaintiff of this paragraph to Vít Kaňkovský, I will also read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies: František Elfmark apologizes from 12.30 pm to the end of the day and, for reasons of work, Lenka Dražilová also apologizes from today's meeting day. Mrs Věra Kovářová's apology does not apply until this afternoon. So, now, Vít KaňkovskKaňkovský and then I will open the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u4	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues. I guess we don't have to say that few of the topics at this point are resonating as much among our citizens as it is the topic of vaccination against COVID-19. This, of course, is being addressed at all levels, including already open gardens, and citizens are dealing with a lot of questions. It solves whether or not they want to inoculate, solves whether or not the vaccine is safe, or, respectively, whether they consider it safe, but also solves the practical questions, that is, how they can register, how they will actually get a specific term for vaccination and many other things related to it. I'm going to recap a little bit more about how we actually started the COVID-19 vaccination and how it's been going so far. We all seem to remember the kind of joy that took place when, at the end of 2020, the vaccination against COVID-19 finally actually started in the Czech Republic, but on the other hand, the great disappointment that we experienced in those first weeks and unfortunately in the months of 2021, when it turned out that the vaccination strategy prepared by the Ministry of Health was very toothless and did not contain a lot of important logistical steps, so that the vaccination would take place as far as possible without any major problems. Of course, this needs to be placed in the context of a Europe-wide problem, which was a lack of vaccines. But even here from the point of view of the strategy of the Czech Republic in terms of ordering individual types of vaccines, so that we can cover both vaccination centres and the needs of practical physicians, was not ideally set from our point of view. I understand that after the fight everyone is a general, it was a certain struggle for the vaccines, there was a certain degree of uncertainty about how the companies would be able to supply the vaccines. However, I believe that mostly the strategy itself, which means the prepared logistics of the vaccination, has been poorly prepared in our country. But we're not gonna change that at this point. Now we're in a phase where the vaccinations have been going quite well, we've got vaccinations working both in the large-capacity vaccination centres and in the smaller vaccination centres and in the general practitioners. Unfortunately, the segment of practitioners still doesn't work the way it could and should, and there's still a lot, a lot of uncertainty about that for some citizens. It is not entirely reasonable and it is also difficult to justify that at this point we still have patients who do not have 70+, although they have been registered for vaccination for several weeks, they do not yet have a specific date for vaccination. I consider this to be a certain failure, and it is very difficult for me, as a doctor, when patients in the office or in the hospital where I work ask me this, it is very difficult for them to justify why they have not yet received a specific date for vaccination at their doctor or in a particular vaccination centre - a patient, 73 years, for example, this Monday, which asked me why, although she registered a few weeks ago. And these are the practical effects of the fact that there is still much to improve on the functioning of vaccination in our country. And then some questions arise, which are more likely to be in the future, because at this point we should be dealing mainly with how we are going to vaccinate in the coming weeks and months. As I said before, the major problem at the beginning of the entire vaccination phase was the lack of vaccines and, in fact, their structure. This means that we had some vaccines, but they were not usable at the time by the practitioners, and this, of course, caused a lot of problems. Now, however, we are slowly going to the opposite stage if we have enough vaccines, but there is no guarantee that we will have enough citizens who will want to be vaccinated. But I'll get to that even further. [[11.00 hours]] We have prepared a summary of the questions that I would like to address to the new Minister Adam Vojtěch, who was actually standing at the beginning of the preparation of vaccination, then actually the final stage of preparation has already been taken over by his successors, but today he has returned to the position of Minister of Health and will have it on his shoulders at the moment. So, Minister, I'm going to introduce you to some questions that we'd like you to answer. It is not just because of me as a doctor or because of my fellow doctors and Members, but I think it is very important that the public be informed of this. The first question leads to the organisation of vaccinations, when, as I have already said here, it is taking place on several levels: large-capacity vaccination centres, smaller vaccination centres and practical doctors. We are all aware that it will not be possible to maintain the operation of large-capacity centres in the long term, as it is now. Your predecessor, Minister Arenberger, mentioned that he expected to close down the operation at the end of July or that the operation of the large-capacity vaccination centres would be gradually terminated. And it must be clearly stated how this capacity, which covers a large number of vaccines, will be replaced. Much relied on practitioners, but communication with them from the Ministry of Health in recent months was not ideal. We also communicated directly with them, and today there is a small part of the practitioners who say: Since we have been treated, we will no longer vaccinate against COVID-19. There's another practical problem, and that's hospital personnel. A colleague of Válek, who is now leaving, but we discussed this this morning, can prove that he, as the head of the clinic, must send dozens of his workers to the vaccination centre in Brno to make the vaccination centre work. This means how the Ministry has set up a strategy for the next weeks and months when hospitals will need to be returned to normal regime. We all know we have a lot to catch up on both clinical medicine and paraclinicals. We have hundreds of patients with delayed surgeries, and we worry about it every day, how to make it up to those patients. And we know that it won't be a question of one or two months, even I believe, six months to be able to replace a whole series of performances. We have a big problem with preventive medicine when a whole range of preventive treatments have been postponed, and we can see the consequences at this point. This means question number one, how the Ministry of Health will adjust the vaccination strategy for the next weeks and months of 2021, in terms of ensuring vaccination sites, the staff who will be vaccinated, and how it will communicate with the community of practitioners, so that their frustration that they have at the moment is somehow managed and involved in vaccination in the autumn months, preferably in those summer months. Question number two, which is very interested in the community of medical students. What about these students' vaccinations? They, of course, by restoring practice in health care establishments, and it is also necessary to say that many of them have either been involved voluntarily or on the basis of the order to work in hospitals at the very worst of the time, they will, of course, continue to study, will again walk among patients, so I wonder how the Ministry has prepared vaccinations for students in the medical fields? Question number three. It is very practical and in these days it is very tilted, and how it is to proceed by a citizen who, for serious reasons, needs to change the date of the second dose of vaccination. I know in the media, it's getting crazy, somebody wants to go on vacation, and that's why they want to postpone their vaccination. But there are many other, more prosaic reasons why one needs to change the date of vaccination for serious reasons. And the citizens want to know. They want to know what their rights are in this direction and how to proceed, so that it is, of course, consistent with the medically appropriate window, that means that they are not threatened by the immunological aspect, that they will not fit in the window when the vaccination will be effective. Another subject that, perhaps some would say, is marginal, but it is also for Members to ask us, but I think not only for Members, and that is how the vaccination system of foreign nationals who live in our territory and are not included in the public health insurance system will be ensured. The next question is from a similar injury and concerns our Czech citizens who have worked abroad for a long time, there they have received vaccination against COVID-19, and yet it was not in a country that has a recognised certificate with us at the moment. I mean, for example, the United States of America. Those patients aren't tens of thousands, but they're definitely hundreds of thousands. And they can increase because there are quite a lot of job stays. This means that our citizens also want to know how they will be recognised as a vaccination certificate in our country. Then there is a question which the Minister has already partially answered in his introductory words, and that is how the Ministry of Health and the Government are preparing for a wave of re-occurrence at the turn of 2021/2022. The Minister mentioned that it was the delivery of vaccines for the next season. I know that in this respect it is a bit of a crystal ball guess, which is the Prime Minister's favourite discipline, but - now I tried to lighten it a little bit - but on the other hand, if we don't take steps to order the vaccines just at the end of 2021 and at the beginning of 2022, we could get into similar difficulties that we were in at the end of last year and at the beginning of this year. And that has to do with what I mentioned in the previous points, that's personnel security. We really can't expect to hold the vaccination centers in the long run. I can imagine for a few more weeks, but I certainly don't think our health care is able to maintain large-capacity vaccination centres even in the winter of the following year. And the last question in this block concerns the relatively great distrust of citizens in vaccination against COVID-19. We have come to the impression that, as the vaccination has been going on in recent weeks, the interest in vaccination is quite high. But if we look at it with the predictions of the lower age groups for which registration is currently being opened, then according to the opinion poll, the affinity for vaccination is very small. And here I cannot forgive my personal impression and my personal opinion of the campaign under way, a positive campaign to convince Czech citizens that vaccination against COVID-19 is of great importance both to them and to the entire population. The campaign that's being waged at the moment is from my point of view, and I'm not a PR specialist - very shallow, and I think very few can convince anyone of anything. Or it's not about persuasion, but it's more about getting people to have a positive relationship, and then they decide to get vaccinated. So that's the sum of the questions at this point. I believe there will be even more questions from the diaper. Finally, I would like to say to you that, in a detailed debate, I would then like to read a summary of the three resolutions for which I would like to ask for your support. Thank you for your attention and I will look forward to a constructive discussion and also to the Minister's replies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u5	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I would like to ask you, Mr Member, if you could take the rapporteur's place as a plaintiff. And before the debate opened, Vice-President Okamura asked me to speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, today's negotiating points have basically one common denominator, and this is due to the hysteria of respiratory disease that this planet has known many. We don't question the existence of the virus. Calling out the fear of covid had its logical reasons. Previous alleged pandemics of bird or pig flu could not cause any reaction, although with each of these artificially induced pandemics hysteria increased. Covid is the first time pharmaceutical companies have made their plan to the winning end. [[11.10 hours]] While the previous excess vaccines were being discarded, there is a shortage today. This really is a dream that many hundreds of people, and not just the pharmaceutical industry, have made billionaires today. While the chosen are getting richer, our countries and citizens, of course, are poorer. The European Union has a great cure for this. To be in debt, to give out subsidies, and to make the next chosen rich, while the poor pay their debts again. The reality is that current inflation growth reduces debt to governments, while it cuts and robs workers in real income. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] I'd just ask 'cause I can't concentrate. It's not just businessmen who make money from fear of covid. Government politicians, who reject democracy, are also trying to benefit from it. Covid has become a great excuse for the government and politicians of other opposition parties to trample on the Constitution and the fundamental human rights of citizens. You wanted to talk about the Minister's conflicts of interest. Our gentlemen, the ministers, one after the other, declared unconstitutional measures, and they're not really moving anybody around. In addition, the Supreme Audit Office has revealed overpriced public procurement and misuse of public funds. That's what the police do. We in the Chamber of Deputies have a system problem to solve. That is, the government is declaring illegal measures for us here, and some of them were aware of it in advance, and yet they declared them. They then forced the police, for example, to enforce these illegal measures. The courts made it clear in their judgments that the closure of schools was illegal and violated the constitutional right of children to education. Even in this case, we have a clear verdict. We have very clear data on how obesity, depression, and other problems have increased not only in children. We don't have to talk about falling into education. It is not about whether children can speak ten words less. This is a lifelong loss of work habits, a loss of social ties. For a year, the kids were home in their room looking at brain-dead videos on the Internet. We've had problems before that children are addicted to cell phones and computers. Now we've made at least hundreds of thousands of malignantly addicted children. And this is another work of the "criminal activity" of this government. And of course everyone who helped them do it. It is also the responsibility of other opposition parties that have consistently agreed to the government's unconstitutional emergency states or the so-called pandemic law, which is only an otherwise named emergency situation for the next year. It is indisputable that the vast majority of citizens have not been seriously threatened by covid. It is still statistically clear today that there has never been enough sick people in the current time to meet the definition of an epidemic. On the contrary, it is already proven that statistics have been falsified here and concepts have been distorted. So those who were healthy, but had the signs of the virus in them, were pronounced sick. It is already quite clear that hysteria and illegal measures by the government have ultimately caused the death of thousands of people, and hospitals have become engulfed, thereby endangering really sick people and at the same time causing hundreds of billions of dollars of damage. That's a crime that, unfortunately, was involved in a large part of this House. I'm afraid that's all I can say. I just really believe that one day they'll bear the responsibility for what they've done here. We can fix the economic damage somehow, but you can't give people back their lives. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u7	I also thank you and open a general debate in which I have signed up with priority rights for the club KSČM Mrs Aulická. I will read the apologies of Mr Petr Pávek, who apologizes today, 27 May, and tomorrow, 28 May, from 9 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Petr Dolínek apologizes today, 27 May, between 11.45 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work. Mrs Taťána Malá today from 14.30 to the end of the day for work reasons. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up not on my previous speaker, but on my colleague Kaňkovský, who spoke here about the issue of vaccination, which is now on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, the questions he asked here, I'm not going back to them. I believe the Minister will respond to them as well. But I would give space to another area, which, of course, interests us not only for the club KSČM, but I think also others. The vaccination itself, as I see in my region, and really after the significant influx of the vaccines, I think that it is really well started, and even the vaccination centres themselves are going, and I must say that the feedback is very positive. It's just been discussed about the motivation of the lower age groups to inoculate or not. But what really resonates with the current population is, in fact, the division of society into citizens who get vaccinated and citizens who don't get vaccinated, although they have different reasons, whether personal or health. On Tuesday, at the Chamber of Deputies, we refused to discuss the proposal from the Ministry of Health's workshop on the so-called covid passports. I don't think I'm gonna repeat the reasons. On the other hand, on Wednesday, when the Central Crisis Staff was running, it was clearly said...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u9	I'm gonna ask you to calm down at the newsletter's desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u10	I just need the minister to listen. I'm sorry. But that on Wednesday's Central Crisis Staff it was said that the Czech Republic, as a whole of the European Union, does not need to issue so-called covid passports, because, as the legislation in the European Union has been adopted, it is quite sufficient that the certificate that our citizens receive after the second dose of vaccination is sufficient. It is essential information for us and the essential things that need to be discussed, because actually the original proposal prepared by the Ministry of Health, so I de facto think that it was a measure where the distribution of those citizens to the benefit of the vaccination and disadvantaged was really taking place. Because there were other areas that we criticized. So I won't go back to that now. I think the Minister will discuss these matters, and I would ask him to do so before the possibility of further legislation is needed, if the Ministry evaluates that this is probably necessary to assess with all representatives of political clubs whether these parameters are really important or necessary for citizens of the Czech Republic. However, we are also interested in how you will stand up, Minister, to the new measures that have been taken so far, or the existing ones that the Ministry of Health has put there and which it is considering. We know that you plan to make some decisions in the next week, whether it concerns the hygiene standards, the summer camps and the stays or swimming pools and so on. But I must say that many citizens have a great deal of confusion in the measures put forward. For example, we have been discussing the very extension of the withdrawal period of our citizens after the loss of COVID-19. It was a big mess if it only applies from a certain date since the announcement, from 23 May, if I am not mistaken, or if it is automatically extended for all people who have lost COVID-19. That's 90 days to 180. I know that even the companies themselves who tested and who handled this were really very confused, and they were often unable to trace the correct argument on the Ministry of Health's website. I think the same applies to those services or hospitality, when and under which measures, or whether it is really possible to come to a hairdresser with a test they take at home or just an honest statement that a person is tested in their company, and so on. Some, unfortunately, because they're scared, maybe they need the test to be carried out in the system. [[11.20 hours]] Other things that citizens ask us a lot about are the testing itself during the holidays, that is, those demands for two free PCR tests, for four antigenic and so on, and it is also true at a time, if you are testing in your company or at work, you are still entitled to it and it is free. These are the things you'll probably be lecturing or communicating next week. On the other hand, when it is actually mentioned, these parameters should probably be communicated really clearly and so that people understand it and do not have to look to a large extent, so that it is really communicated well. We are also very sorry that we still - and we had a round table about this on the Health Committee - are not dealing with, for example, ending, or the possibility of ending wearing first-degree children's drapes. So far as we've evaluated the whole situation, I'm saying for myself that I really didn't like the definition of Mrs. Chief Hygiene who refused to deal with it and to allow at least at the first stage, when the children are actually there for the longest time, they're still being tested, and it's the group that's the least susceptible to this disease to at least put those respirators and drapes down here in these months. I don't think I have to say what kind of trouble these kids are having. We were just talking about this on the round table, where representatives of the Ministry of Health were present, and I would like to say that I am very sorry about the Ministry of Health's approach, because I feel that the little children are really getting lost in this and that they are very neglected and that they are actually disappearing in the whole system of measures. We would also like to know how you will approach this recognition of the amount and values of antibodies, because these are essential things. He also asked a colleague Kaňkovský about this, many of the chairmen of the Health Committee deal with it, they are constant questions, and so far the Ministry of Health is not able to answer this clearly. But we have citizens here who have enormous values after losing, and actually, to get a safe vaccination, it may take a year or even longer, because, on the contrary, as health experts speak, such levels of antibodies could cause major health problems in the context of vaccination. This is also not allowed among citizens, this information. They need to be told, and after losing this disease, they need to go to the antibodies before vaccination, so that they can be sure that it can't really cause other things. For us, I guess, everything now. And one more thing that probably resonates the most now, and that's actually the administration of the second dose, or the term. It is not the fault of the citizens of the Czech Republic that the launch of the vaccination takes place in the summer months. Our citizens now - and I think we are all very happy about it - are discussing how they can go on vacation. I think this isn't about the foreign one, it's about how they will spend their holidays with their family in the Czech Republic, or wherever they decide. [[si]] And on the other hand, I don't want to tell them, some people, representatives of the Department of Health, radically say that maybe a vacation - there's no other way to translate the vaccination to another time. But we also have, of course, employees who have business trips and so on, and I think that the face of the Ministry of Health, or of the train being started, should be more friendly at this time of the vaccination and should really be able to accommodate the citizens as much as possible. I understand that the system is going on somehow, somehow set up, on the other hand, we have to say openly that this is not the fault of those citizens, that they are starting to inoculate now, and the second doses are coming out for the very lucrative time of the holiday. And I think that this should be about the fundamental things that the ministry should be dealing with right now, their approach to these citizens, because in the vaccination centers themselves, or the pediatricians, as mentioned here... pediatricians - I'm sorry, district doctors, practices, there's no problem. The problem is really what the Ministry of Health says, and the system that he doesn't really want to allow for that common sense and common sense. Thank you so much for coming.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. Mrs Karla Maříková will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my previous speaker, Hanka Aulická, for the questions and I will use them and follow them up and ask the Minister if he can answer them. My previous speaker here said that on the Central Crisis Staff, it was said that there was absolutely no need to change the legislation and introduce what we saw here on Tuesday, an amendment to the Public Health Act. I therefore ask why this amendment was included at the next meeting, if the Ministry really insists that the legislation be amended. Then a colleague here mentioned two free PCR tests. I wonder if they will also be published in international format, so that the public can use them as part of their vacation trips, or only if they are simply informative in the Czech language. As far as the antibodies are concerned. There's a lot of people out there who've had coronavirus without symptoms, yet they've had a test for antibodies as autopaths, they've found that they've had the disease, maybe they've had a high level of antibodies, so what about them? Will this evidence also be taken into account that the coronavirus has been lost, even though it is not in the register because they were not registered as being ill? Then I'm wondering if someone's gonna get those two shots of vaccination now, if they're automatically committed to re-occurring it in the fall. Or maybe he can voluntarily decide that he doesn't want to take the booster vaccination anymore? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. I would just like to point out that the factual point is to respond to the previous speaker. With a factual remark, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u14	Mr President, I will actually respond to Mrs Maříková by means of you. Aulická's colleagues have already mentioned this. Antibody investigations have repeatedly been requested by the Ministry of Health to prepare a methodology for how to actually engage in the investigation of antibodies in the fight against COVID-19. We believe that, and we have discussed this with immunologists, that the investigation of antibodies is of great importance to the growing number of people who have experienced COVID-19, as well as the increasing number of vaccines. Antibody investigation can give us very important information about the immunity our population has against COVID-19, and it can also simplify access to vaccinations for those who are not sure if they are already in the appropriate time window. That is, we have a new minister here, and I am calling on him again - I have already called on Minister Blatný, Minister Prymula to do this, and I have not been able to do it with Minister Arenberger: really try to consult with your expert groups on this, and there are already works, expert work that mention the testing of antibodies, and I think that if we want to be effective and also limit the cost of unnecessary testing, the investigation of antibodies is a very important factor in this regard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný will speak in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would first like to point out that the point is called wrong, because vaccination, or vaccination, is a medical procedure in which a healthy organism deliberately encounters a less dangerous microbe or its fragment. So we're generally not talking about vaccination, vaccination, that's manipulation. We're talking about injecting experimental gene therapy with untested gene emulsions. I have news for you. William Shakespeare died yesterday. William Shakespeare was the first man in the world to be injected experimentally with this gene emulsion. Well, he died yesterday. Yes, he was 81 and died yesterday. If he died of cancer, heart attack or anything in 2020 and the PCR were positive, he'd die of covid. So yesterday, the first man who was vaccinated died. [[11.30 hours]] Last year, the number of old-age pensions paid in the Czech Republic decreased by 14 335 for the whole year. This year's first quarter, another 15,000. So 15,000 people from the most vaccinated age category have died in the Czech Republic since the start of this experimental experimental gene therapy with untested gene emulsion. It's not evidence that vaccines are killing, but it's quite an interesting indication. And here I am repeatedly asking for the first time as an old-fashioned minister to allow comparison of anonymous birth numbers of patients who have been vaccinated with this gene emulsion, with a list of people who have died in the first three months of this year to allow access to this team that will conduct this investigation to those who have signed the petitions of doctors, an open letter to the government and politicians, and to allow access to doctors and scientists who are qualified to do so, from the Health Forum petition and published these results. Because I overheard the words about the campaign in favor of this vaccination. If you don't open up the access to the data, people won't be able to make a critical decision as it was said here. You will simply manipulate them using celebrities, using teachers, using children, using media and piára to abuse their ignorance of the problem. If you hide this data, there will rightly be more and more pressure to release it first and secondly that people, as this information will spread gradually, will reject this vaccination, which you will keep this information secret. So if you want to help citizens in the most possible way in order to make a critical decision and voluntarily decide whether to submit to this experimental experimental experimental gene therapy with an untested gene emulsion, then you just have to give them this information. Only a lunatic would give a vaccine to someone with asthma! Only a fool would give vaccines to pregnant people! This was said in this House 9. 12. 2020 not from the mouth of Lubomír Volný, but from the mouth of Professor Válek. And I therefore ask, Minister, how is it possible that madmen are vaccinated by people with asthma in the Czech Republic, and fools are vaccinated by pregnant women, and they are even preparing for this at the National vaccination centre. Please answer this question and tell me if only Professor Válek is an uneducated amateur in the field of vaccinationology who is acting as a doctor and authority here, so I would like to know your opinion, in which you will clearly tell her that Professor Válek is talking about something he doesn't understand. Or, if Professor Válek understands this and doesn't comment on something he doesn't know anything about, then explain to me how people with asthma who, according to Mr Válek, are being vaccinated only by a madman. And how come we've already got pregnant women getting vaccinated by a lunatic? It has a little to do with the presentation of the Nobelův Prize winner for the discovery of the HIV virus by Mr Luc Montagnier, who has repeatedly publicly declared that the vaccination that is now being carried out worldwide, please he is the Nobelův Prize winner in virology, so that it is a crime against health, against science and against medicine, because precisely this general vaccination is responsible for all mutations of the virus that have arisen, because he naturally forces the virus to mutate in a huge way and to avoid what the vaccine is supposed to do. Nor is Mr Luc Montagnier alone in this opinion. This view was publicly expressed by scientists and physicians, who are signed under an open letter from doctors to the government and politicians, under another petition from the Healthy Forum. These are two petitions that this House has refused, or this House has refused to hear these petents in any way. And I would ask you, Minister, to ask your fellow Members here on a microphone to make it possible for you to perform in the House, or to commit yourself to inviting these petents to the Ministry of Health, where they will be on-line with all the citizens of this country, to conduct a professional debate in which you will either clearly disprove the concerns of these experts and their view that what is happening in this country is wrong, and according to many, it is a crime, or you will not refute them either. Because I repeat, we are censored, we have limited access to the media, but we are already organizing and we are getting the information between people quite massively, and we are getting better and more powerful in this and in the finals we will create a system that will have greater reach and greater power than Czech television. And if you don't give these people the information, you'll look like liars and cowards. Liar because you have something to hide and cowards because you're afraid of confrontation. So I repeat the request to you, Minister, because it doesn't really matter here with colleagues. Make it possible to make a public and transparent broadcast to petents of a petition called the Open Letter of Physicians to the government and politicians. Allow the same performances to petents of the Healthy Forum petition, which are all scientists and doctors who are more educated in the field and experienced than you. Keep this discussion with them. Take them to a team that will investigate the deaths of the 15,000 seniors who died after vaccination. I am not saying that because of vaccination, but they died after vaccination with a probability of playing with certainty, because this age category is the most vaccinated age category in the Czech Republic, and I repeat that these people died during the whole last year 14 335. These are the figures that the Czech Social Security Administration stopped paying their old-age pensions. So last year the Czech Social Security Administration stopped paying 14 335 pensions and 15,000 for the first three months of this year. This should be suspicious to anyone who wants to know the truth and anyone who wants to allow the citizens of this country to make critical decisions. These are the requests I'm sending you, Minister. And your former follower, perhaps your future consequence, depending on how long you'll remain in office, Mr. Prymula, has revealed how often you need to re-inoculate against the covid, because the problem is mutations. So once every two years, once a year. At the same time, he wrote that it is possible for citizens to pay for the booster vaccination themselves. So I want a clear statement from you, Minister, by which you will now clearly guarantee your political future on your own political responsibility to the citizens of this country with a clear statement as Minister of Health for YES, that in the Czech Republic citizens who have already decided to pursue this genetic therapy will never have to pay re-vaccination by this gene therapy from their own. That's my next request. [[11.40 hours]] And then I want to know from you, Minister, if you are preparing any restrictions on children of 12+, that is, 12 years old and older, whose parents refuse vaccination. That means if you're going to discriminate against them in any way at school, if you're planning on having to ban gym class, if you're going to ban them from school trips, and if you're going to ban them from outdoors with a school as they're already being bullied by children who haven't succumbed to the usual vaccinations. These are all questions or requests you have to comment on, Minister. And then I would like to answer to my colleague here, through the President, why some doctors do not want to vaccinate. Well, I know because I'm seeing them. Those doctors don't want to inoculate because they don't want to kill. And because they can't say they don't want to inoculate because they can't kill, they're willing to accept any excuse they can resort to. And these doctors who don't want to kill, there are hundreds and thousands of them all over the Republic. I thank them for their approach, and I think it will be exactly in line with the Hippokratův oath if they apply a saline solution to their patients in case of continued efforts to introduce vaccination apartheid in the Czech Republic. It'll be perfectly consistent with your Hippokratův oath, and it'll be perfectly fine if you pour this genetic experimental solution into the toilet where it belongs, and you inject some saline or vitamin B into people's bathroom, which will definitely help them. So thank you, Minister, for your efforts to provide critical information to the public by releasing data on how many of the 15,000 seniors who died in the Czech Republic in the first three months were vaccinated, how many of them were not vaccinated, and also information which, of course, can be read from the system, and you don't need to dissect anyone, information about how a successful flu medicine, not just against the flu, but against heart attack and maybe against cancer is a covid. Because the information that comes to me is that covid is the most perfect cure for the flu. We all know that. Covid cured the flu 100%. But now it looks like he's cured about 50 percent of the heart attacks that have gone missing, or have dropped rapidly by tens of percent, and that he's even reduced mortality by tens of percent to all forms of cancer. So the question is, shouldn't we grow the covid and let it go through the population regularly twice three times a year because it treats us with a lot of other diseases? So thank you and I look forward both to your answers, Minister, and to your cooperation in ensuring that the citizens of the Czech Republic are regularly informed and can decide on their own critically voluntarily and without pressure whether they prefer to go through a covide with medicines such as Isoprinosine, Ivermectin, vitamin D or vitamin C, or whether they will be voluntarily allowed to undergo an experimental injection of experimental gene emulsion, which, by definition, is not vaccination or vaccination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u17	Well, I'll ask the lady here if she can disinfect the rhetorical area. . [[It's happening.]] And there are four factual points. First Mr Pavel Bělobrádek, Mr Ivo Vondrák, Vít Kaňkovský and Petr Třešňák will be prepared. I'll read the apology. Mr Josef Hájek apologizes today between 14.30 and 19.00 for work reasons. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that on the petition committee, the petition was discussed, it was discussed even in the presence of the present Minister, because he was a member of this committee, so representatives of the petents... [[The Minister's note from the newsstand off the microphone.]] He even rapporteured, thank you for supplementing, even rapporteured this petition. So we actually discussed it on the petition committee, and that is, in the presence of the representatives of the petents, that is, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, this issue has been discussed publicly. The representatives of the petents could tell us all their arguments, there was even a presentation, if I recall correctly, that is, the discussion was there. Then the second thing about vaccination, if any. vaccination, etc. Of course, there are other medical methods that have invasive styles, and that they're somehow done, so I don't think it's necessary to call them experimental, it's all going through some kind of control. Anyway, I don't think it's safe to say in this case that the representatives of the petents wouldn't be able to perform. Of course, there is something else after that with the Minister, something else is the opportunity to speak in plenary. But the standard procedure for petitions is that they're going to be discussed by the petition committee, which was done, with the representatives of the petents, and they had the opportunity to say these things to everyone there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. I will ask Mr Ivo Vondrák to prepare Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u20	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I have prepared one more entry, which I would call "how to avoid myths in the field of vaccination and what is happening around us today." So the fact is - and I am responding to what I have just heard - that there are 3 099 doctors in our region who work in hospitals who take care of the sick, and after vaccination, they are six - six - positive. I think the benefit of the vaccination is completely indisputable. So please let us start slowly breaking down these myths that really lead to the threat of immunization of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u21	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Petr Třešňák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u22	I would like to take the liberty of responding briefly to Mr Lubomír Volný by your means, Mr President. You've been talking about a group of doctors for a long time. They are doctors in the vast majority with great professional credit, whose opinions you present here. And I have to say, I'm not questioning it. Medicine is not mathematics, and we are very often in clinical medicine dealing with the fact that we have expertly different opinions, and we try to sort them out in some way, sometimes we disagree with each other. But in the finals, the results will eventually decide. Results of treatment, results and preventive measures. And it can sometimes be monitored online, but unfortunately very often it is only retrospectively, with the coming months and sometimes even years we can evaluate which procedure was eventually the right one. That means you're presenting one opinion group here, it's okay, me, for example. I commend and respect Professor Beran for a lot of his previous professional work, but we differ in our opinion on the COVID-19 solution. But that doesn't mean I'm losing respect for him. And so it is with other experts, there are other expert groups that simply have a different opinion. And otherwise, you were talking about numbers. When you talk about numbers, you need to talk about them in a broader context. You mentioned the first quarter of this year. But let's look at last year and last quarter of last year. If we look at 2020, we know that mortality in the Czech Republic has increased by 15 percent in absolute numbers. And the greatest mortality was in the months of October, November and December. At that time, it has not yet been vaccinated in the Czech Republic. So I want to ask Mr. Volný, how does he explain it? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u23	Mr Petr Třešňák and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u24	Have a nice noon. I am not usually in the habit of responding to Mr Lubomír Volný, but when he has already spoken here, through you, Mr President, let me just make two factual points. He was talking about vaccinations. As far as I know, the EMA has not yet approved any vaccine for children's vaccination, although in the United States Pfizer can be vaccinated with juveniles from 12 higher. But then you were talking about compulsory vaccination for school in nature. I don't know if you were sitting here in the House, and if you remember that year back, we canceled that with our vote. It was even my suggestion. And I also suggested that, as with the schools in nature, cancel the document for the children's camps. That's not where the House accepted it. But it was enough to watch, and I even think that maybe you voted in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u25	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u26	Since there were more questions, I will now respond very quickly to my colleague, Mr Třešňák, through Mr President. Yes, you're right, I should have used past tense in terms of children who have been vaccinated, but I'm using future times with regard to those children who are to be vaccinated against covid. And the reason now is that it was said that something had been dealt with as a standard. We don't live in standard times. We don't live in standard times. And standard procedure simply isn't enough to gain public confidence. And the fact that something is going to happen on some House Committee doesn't know 99 percent of the citizens, because 99 percent of the citizens just don't really have a deeper awareness of how the Chamber of Deputies works. That's just the way it is. There's a message that there was something on some committee somewhere, but these people don't know that. While here in the Chamber of Deputies, if these petents were to be accepted and discussed here, several million people would see it live on Czech television. That's the big difference. And that's why I'm asking. Because we don't live in standard times. We all agree that what we live in is not a standard time. Let them in the House. Just let them in the House. And break myths. Destroy myths about vaccination. Destroy them by publishing information about the 15,000 dead in the first three months of this year after vaccination. And now the question of what people died of October, November, December. [[A note from the diaper.]] Me? I don't know. I can't know. But the doctors have a professional opinion. And they're going to tell you that it was because of neglected professional care, that it was because of the stress that the media put in people from morning to night, and that it was because they were killing the measures. And that's what they're gonna tell you. They will say that, on the contrary, anti-covid measures have caused an increase in covid deaths. And that's what you're afraid of. You're afraid that the experts will come here and that people will see it live on Czech TV. And that's why you refuse to let them in. So that's how it is. We don't live in standard times. You want above-standard public trust. [[Attention on time.]] Then earn it by publishing all the information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u27	Thank you. We're gonna ask the lady here to clean up and dissipate the rhetoric. And Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be prepared with a factual remark. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u28	Shortly to Mr Lubomír the Volný by your means. I don't understand you here. You know that in the first quarter of 2021, or you raise serious suspicions, an above-standard number of people died in connection with COVID-19 vaccination, but at the same time you don't know what people died of in the months of October to December last year. And once again, you're raising the theory that it was stress-related. Let me tell you something, honourable Member. I served on the covido unit these fall months. I served on a covideo unit, even though I'm an orthopedic surgeon. We used all the protocols that were known at the time, including the use of Isoprinosin, then Ivermectin in the next weeks. I think we've done our utmost for these patients. Still, the patients were dying there. There are about three patients who will die from orthopedic surgery in the current year. It's mostly complications from neck surgery. But there were weeks when we died, like ten patients. And they were all COVID-19 patients. So I have the answer. Of course, it's statistically processed by the statists. But you're making very serious suspicions and confusing the public here. And if the experts are to come here, let them come. I'll vote for it. But also from the other camps. There's no way there's only one camp out here. I think it's more like a platform for a round table. And it can be easily transmitted by television. But it's not possible to present just one current of opinion here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Lubomír Volný with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u30	Thank you. There's more I want to say. However, Mr Kaňkovský, through Mr President, you are lying. And I'm asking you to prove that you treated these patients with all the protocols, including the kostic protocol. If you can't do it, you're a liar. [[Many reactions in the room.]] Now the boss of Motola Miloslav Ludvík shocked in the journal Week: Covid drugs are full of warehouses. If doctors used them, the mortality rate could be zero. Says Miloslav Ludvík. So here's the deal. So you know what, colleague? If you arrange a round table in the presence of Czech TV cameras, which will be broadcast on ČT24 live, I will only be happy to thank you very much. Then you can publish officially verified anonymous data from your treatment, where you treated patients with covid with all available protocols. And if there's a statistical analysis and it turns out there's no significant difference, I'll apologize. Otherwise, I don't trust you. I don't believe you. And I think you're lying because you just want to help vaccination in the Czech Republic with this lie. And I hereby accuse you. I'm gonna charge you out of the House of Deputies so you can file charges against me. Because the moment you sue me, I'm gonna be in this court for evidence of all the material I'm talking about right now. Like I said, if you want the public to trust you, organize the round table. Don't ask me what those people died of. Allow access to anonymous data. Let's have a public debate. And it'll come out of it. Why are you defending yourself? What are you afraid of? When you get a clear stick on the Volný, clear stick on the free block, a clear stick on all the antivactors. Allow these people to become part of these teams, who will search for this information, to analyse it. They have confidence in a society that has no confidence in vaccines. And if your words prove to be true, you're 100% winners.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u31	Time. I'd ask that we treat each other politely here. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský with a point of fact. Mr. Ondřej Veselý will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u32	Only for a very short time. If anyone in this Chamber of Deputies had called me a liar, I'd probably have fought back. But in the case of you, Mr Lubomír Volný, through Mr President, I take that as a commendation, because in the context of how you present your alleged evidence, I think everyone will take a picture of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u33	Mr. Ondřej Veselý. Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Válek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u34	I'm glad my colleague Kaňkovský got off. I wanted to stand up for him myself. He stood up for himself. Don't worry about it, colleague. It's just like you said. If such a person calls you a liar, it is actually a commendation, certainly not disrespect. So I'm rooting for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u35	Mr Lubomír Lubomír Volný will speak with a factual remark. And let's try not to insult ourselves and not attack personally. I don't think this House of Deputies deserves it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u36	Noticing that I don't trust someone and I think they're liars is not an insult. This is simply a statement of what the Member concerned thinks. Take it all you want, colleague. brát of it as a medal. It's quite all right. I'm gonna repeat this in public again, and it's gonna be live, and it's gonna be seen like 200, 300 thousand people through our networks, that I think you're a liar. You're a liar. You didn't use Isoprinosin. You didn't treat with Ivermektin. You have not been treated with high doses of vitamin C, which are one gram per kilogram of weight. He just didn't. You can't get proof of that. And if you get them and officially verified in an anonymous form, you present them here in the House as part of a discussion with the petents or within the roundtable that will be transmitted by the Czech Television, and those people I'm talking about will tell me that they have confidence in that, then I'll apologize to you. But that's not gonna happen. And we all know that, because you won't produce the evidence, and there won't be any petty appearances in this House, and there won't be a round table. [[12.00 hours]] I'd like to ask Mr. Okamura to smell a little quieter. The only reason my evidence is reasonable is because you're not gonna let me be one big covideo mob that got the briefcases, all the political parties, you're not gonna let me make the evidence true. But I will demand them. I'm going to demand them in oral interpellings, I'm going to require them in written interpelations. I'll demand them at meetings, demand them wherever I can get. I'm just gonna want the anonymous birth numbers of the people who died in the first three months of this year to be compared to the people who were vaccinated. That's one thing. And those last three months of the last year, I'm gonna want to know if there's any serious comorbidity related to those birth numbers that's otherwise reported as death to another diagnosis that was untreated, untreated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u37	Have a nice noon. And now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will appear and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please, you have the floor. [[Mrs Gajdůšková apologizes, waiting for the disinfection of the speaker's counter after the speech of Mr Free. It's happening.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u38	Mr President, colleagues, Minister, I am sorry, but I really do not want to go through the covid. I don't want to, I know cases where people are perfectly healthy, and younger than me, after a week, they just went to covid. I don't want to see how much I can take. And I don't think anyone should try it. No one should be exposed to something like this. I think it is necessary to really appreciate how vaccination is running at this point, at least in our country in the Zlín Region. We started, and we built the vaccine system from the beginning. 220 practitioners from 260 who are in the Zlín Region applied to the system at the very beginning when the vaccination started. And I think that this is the right way to go, and it is necessary to create really good conditions for practical doctors to get to their patients, especially the elderly, the less mobile ones, those who are having trouble getting to the vaccination center, practical doctors. I would ask really much here that those central teams that prepare strategies and prepare the conditions for solving the covideo pandemic may listen a little bit more to the regions that have to organize it in the field. We had a problem there as the Zlinsky Region for a while in the last minister's time, but it's been resolved. It's working at this point. Thank you, but please keep listening. I'd like to ask you a question outside of vaccination. My colleague Aulická Jírovcová spoke of this. They turned to me, and they were young people, with the question, what is the deadline for infectivity after losing the covide on the return of a citizen to the Czech Republic. There's still a 90-day deadline on the Ministry of Health's website, but somewhere there's information that it could be 180 days, so I'd really like to ask how it is, or maybe she asked for some clarification on the Ministry of Health's website. Possibly beyond the Association of Patients of the Czech Republic. We are ready to really help education, and this is completely rational, including spreading arguments both for and against. I'm sure people have a right to know if there are risks. But the risk of getting sick in the cold and having a damaged health, for God's sake, is certainly greater without vaccination than with vaccination. I have one more thing to say here. You know, I've been moving around a lot, and I still have contacts, friends, even in the academic field. There, of course, it works that every expert has a vision, an idea, has a hypothesis that he presents. And it's okay. I appreciate the scientists, their invention, their creativity, their knowledge, the work they're doing because they're moving civilization forward. But I am convinced of that, and from that long experience, I want to say that we must separate academic debates, the communication and the argument about hypotheses, the theories that scientists have formulated from concrete facts. There was talk of 15,000 people dying in the group most vaccinated in the first quarter of this year. Well, that's a nice demagogy, because to deduce that because this age group was the one that was most vaccinated, that the people who died in this group died of a vaccine, that's just not true. No one can put it that way, and it's the spread of an alarm message. I think it's dangerous. Every politician should have full responsibility for what he says, because his word always weighs, whether we think it does or not. And I say again, it's important that politicians bear responsibility for what they say. And if it spreads such a warning message, it must be made clear that it is an alarm message. There is still to be said about what has been said here that a person with asthma may have a different problem with the vaccine - after all, there is a doctor's decision whether to take the vaccine or not to carry what is greater or less risk to him. And I trust our doctors, I know they have a high level of expertise. Our health system is great, it really managed to handle the pandemic, it can handle the whole vaccination system at the moment, and I believe that there will be no more waves, that our health care will be able to go back to the normally available care, which is of high quality, which we really appreciate. And I also want to thank the Ministry of Health for giving the health committee some kind of reward, even if we imagine that they could be bigger, health professionals who actually bore the greatest weight of the whole situation. Once again, I deeply appreciate it and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u39	Now we have two factual points. The chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will be the first to appear and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u40	Thank you for the floor. Someone's left some questions at the Department of Health. They're not mine. I would have followed or responded to what Mrs GajdůGajdůšková said and focused on our oldest fellow citizens - and here the state is failing. I took the morning data and the month-old data. On April 26, it was waiting for a deadline, it had not yet had the date of vaccination of 52,000 citizens. Mr. Governor Vondrák can nod his head as he pleases, these are the Ministry of Health's numbers. And today it was 36 grand. So only 16,000 citizens at the age of 80+ have received the date of vaccination in the last month. The numbers are getting bigger. A total of 1.8 million vaccines have been administered in the last four weeks, but only 5 percent of this number have been given to citizens from 70 to 79, and there they are waiting for a deadline, i.e. they still have no deadline, 73,000 citizens, and less than 1 percent of the 1.8 million vaccine submitted were given to citizens from 80+. And I think it's a big mistake that, first of all, the state should focus on inoculating those interested in these age categories, and that clearly doesn't work. And I don't care what excuse or reason it's gonna be. That's what he wants to hear from the old-time minister, because I really don't want to criticize, but that really bothers me. I'm already in the age category, I'm after the first term because I volunteered when 55+ was open, but it was actually stupid at that point to even report there when I saw the numbers, and it's not getting any better. So focus, Minister, on getting this age category as quickly as possible, because those numbers just look like it, and it doesn't matter if someone's nodding their head or not. Then come and explain it to me, Mr. Governor. It's the Department of Health numbers, I didn't make them up. [[Attention on time.]] It still doesn't have a term of more than 70 plus if I add it up, 100,000 people from 70 up. [[Attention on time.]] 100,000 people don't have a deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u41	Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear and Mrs Alena Gajdůšková and then Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared for a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u42	I would like to answer the question, as you know, through Mr President, Mrs Gajdůškovášková, when you speak again. How do you know vaccination is safer than passing through covid? How do you personally know that? Based on what studies on the effects of this gene therapy, experimental - after a year, after five, after four, after seven, after eleven, after ten years you claim it. I'd like to see those studies. And you know the people who died a week after they got the covid? They definitely had low levels of vitamin D, C, and were not treated with Ivermectin or Isoprinosin, that's for sure. You don't have a person like that who dies in a week and is treated like that in your neighborhood. I guarantee it. That's one thing. And the other thing. People write me today and every day cases of people who go to the first dose and they're dead. So I have exactly the same personal experience as you. And I'm not saying anything here. I'm not saying these people died from vaccination. I'm saying they died after vaccination. They died after vaccination. And if they died of vaccination in a statistically significant higher number than they would have died without vaccination, we will only know if we shake hands here and within objectivity we will not blame ourselves for anything and say that we want to compare the birth numbers of people who died in the first three months with the birth numbers of people who were vaccinated and that we want to compare the anonymous birth numbers of people who have died in the last three months with the birth numbers of people who have not received planned health care. I want evidence, not impressions, and you're fighting against it so I can get the evidence. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u43	There. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, on a point of fact. [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u44	Once again, honourable House. I'd like evidence, too, because it's clear what the situation looks like. We know from the hospitals, we know from the individual cases. And it keeps showing that testing, vaccination, drapes, compliance with epidemiological measures just works. That's one. And second of all, the statistics. That's right, co-worker Stanjura may have had two chickens, I had none, but statistically, we each have one. I mean, at least there's experience in the Zlín Region, and I have a personal one, even from my neighborhood, just the dates for vaccination are given to those people in the order of hours, at most days. As far as I know, there are basically no high numbers of people waiting for that vaccination. Maybe there are people who are waiting, but those who want to go through the practitioners, and that's what I've been talking about, that it's necessary for the practitioners to create the conditions as best as possible to really get to those people who can't go through the vaccination centers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u45	He will now speak - factual remarks are three in order, so Mr Ivo Vondrák, Mr Lubomír Volný and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u46	Thank you. I just had a second myth set up by the chairman of ODS Stanjura. I have the data from yesterday at the IHIS on the age structure and its inoculation. So I'm going to start with the highest group: 80+ 60.1 percent vaccination completed, 16,4 percent first dose vaccination, and 2.1 has a reservation for the deadline, 8.2 % is basically waiting for the deadline, they're registered, and 4.8 percent of this disease has passed. This means that we have 91.6 percent in this age group of those who are either immune or partially immune, or will basically be immunized soon. So it's an age group of 80 plus. Then the group is 70 to 79, where it is a percentage of 89 percent. Age group 65 to 69 - 82 percent. Age group 60 to 64 - it's 75 percent and something, 55 to 59 - it's 73 percent, then it's age group 50 to 54, which is 70 percent. It ends with a group that is up to 40 years old, when it is really minimal, it is 22 percent, of which the minimum is inoculated. So if I add it up, I underline it, we have 11.6 percent of those who are completely vaccinated in the Czech Republic, 21.3 percent of those who went through the first dose, 3.5 percent have a reserved term, 4.4 percent are registered and waiting for a deadline, it's a complete minimum, and 10.2 percent is basically immune because they've had the disease. That means we have 51 percent immunized companies. So what I'd like to say is, it's not that we don't pay attention to seniors. We had to review why they're waiting for practice. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u47	Mr Lubomír Volný will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u48	I would probably like to say to the absent Member of the ČSSD, through Mr President, that she is lying and is a liar because she does not want evidence. If she wanted evidence, she'd encourage the evidence to be found. And when what you say is true, and what I say is hoax, fake and manipulation, you get a huge Volný stick in your hand. Huge! A hammer, just a pearl, I don't know, and you can rub and you can rip everything out of me. So honk and allow you to find out by anonymous birth numbers - Mr. Governor Vondrák here also knows - through Mr. President - that this is no problem as an informatic. There are programs for that. Those birth numbers are anonymous, and all they're gonna do is collect the data they're looking for, and then you're gonna get beautiful graphs. So compare the 15,000 people who don't take pensions in the first three months of this year with the list of vaccinated. Compare the thousands of extra dead in October, November, December, with lists of people who did not receive scheduled health care. And you're gonna have a Volný stick and you can rub it in me. And like the ČSSD, the Free Block doesn't get into the House. [[12.20 hours]] And it doesn't show, my colleague, that we have drapes and this nonsense, so it doesn't show and prove anything. Because there's no control group here. In our country, there is no region where this nonsense is not respected. But there are such countries. So, for example, your favorite Ukraine, where this doesn't do anything, has a 50 percent lower mortality rate per covid. Just like Sweden, it's a control group. That's where kids normally go to school, they go to swimming pools, movies, everywhere, 50 percent less mortality. And Belarus, where there are hundreds of thousands of demonstrations, we have discussed this several times. You're just spreading hoaxes, fake and nonsense here, because the measures imposed against the covid are killing. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u49	So now the factual point, President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, will be prepared by Mr Marek Výborný. Please. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u50	Thank you. I will speak to Mr Vondrák through you. What myth have you disproved, Mr. Ambassador? I have the same numbers. I'm confirming them. That's not what we're arguing about. I say that 100,000 of our oldest fellow citizens are waiting for a term of vaccination. Yes, it's a small percentage. But it's $100,000. So we're either going to say it's just 4 percent, or we're going to say it's 100,000 people. And in that month that you accidentally took as a sample to compare, in that category of 80+, there were 3,000 candidates. Three thousand interested parties have added. So it's not like they're new people who get a deadline in the days. Three thousand have been added in the last 30 days because the interest has been high since the beginning, and yet 36,000 citizens over the age of 80 do not have a deadline. So at least 33,000 of them wait more than 30 days for the first term, and that's the problem. And that number isn't big enough for the state to deal with it. It's not that big when 80,000 vaccines and more are vaccinated every day. That means it's a half-day dose. So the problem is that the state organizes it, distributes it, gets where they want it. I know they're practical problems and so on, but the doctors tell me they don't get vaccines. It's going best in Zlin County, that's true. If you look at the percentages of the vaccine given to the general practitioners. But I don't want to say it regionally, which region is better or worse. I am at the heart of 100,000 of our fellow citizens, over 70 years old, who often wait a month and longer for the first term. And I think it should be on our mind. To all of us, this is not a political debate. I'm confirming the numbers. We read the same e-mails from Mr. Dušek every morning. I said, so I took this day and looked 30 days back. And really, only 3,000 citizens over the age of 80 out of 384 thousand, 388 thousand of those interested. [[unintelligible]] But unfortunately 36,000 still doesn't have a first term that they're waiting for more than a month, and that's a mistake. You can't convince me. And if we're gonna do everything we can to have zero at the oldest. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u51	There. Although the Minister has priority rights, factual points have priority, Minister. So I have four factual points here. So the order is Mr Marek Výborný, Ivo Vondrák, Lubomír Volný, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. And then the Minister signed up with priority rights for the current debate. Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We're kind of cross-breeding here, but I'm here by your means to Mr. Volný. Please, let's not attack here in the sense that you're yelling at a colleague of Kaňkovský or a colleague of Gajdůškovášková about lying. I think we could really save this, it's undignified. Of course, here you have the right to speak, but the way you do it, it really is not dignified and appropriate for this House. And let me make one comment. You said here that you wanted your evidence to be made true. Well, I feel like it's logical nonsense. The proof is either true or not true. There is no proof that a false proof can be made true. I guess everyone will understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u53	Mr Ivo Vondrák will now appear and prepare Lubomír Volný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u54	The myth is it's worth it. It's not true. What happened was that these people remained in the system with the practitioners, and the state was the one who made it right. This is witnessed by all the captains on the subject, and the situation has started to improve. The waiting time for vaccination in the vaccination centre is one day in our region. That means if these people - and there, of course, I understand. When they're old, they feel like they just have to go to their internship, but there's nothing the state can do about it. That's just the way it is, and we have to change it somehow. So, Mr Stanjur, through the President, it is not so. And I'll show you, come to us, and we can talk about what you can do with practices. By the way, I have an application here to tell you what's going on with practice. Because it's not true they're not getting a vaccine. It is not true, and I will justify the situation in our region, which we have even dealt with with with the coordinator of practical doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u55	So now the factual point, Mr Lubomír Volný, and Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková will be prepared. In addition to the factual remarks of Mr Jiří Mašek, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Adam Vojtěch and Mr Vlastimil Válek for the TOP 09 club. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u56	Hello. By your means, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Výborný not to behave hypocritically, because accusing of lying is a common practice here in this House, and I have no doubt that if I go through the tapestry, I will find many KDU-ČSL Members who have accused someone of lying. So that's about it. I think my colleagues are lying, and they have no evidence. And not that they're wrong, but that they're knowingly lying, and that's why I'm saying it. But I have something here that I consider to be evidence. And I would like it to be disproved by the debate of the professional public. I'm not saying I want my evidence to be recognized as true. I want this debate to find out whether it's true or not. So Ukraine, which has 41 million inhabitants, has a confirmed 51 988, so 52,000 dead. The Czech Republic, which has 10 million inhabitants, has 30,000 dead. So four times the size of Ukraine has less than half of the dead. And the multiple blogger of the year Ladislav Větvička - hello Láďa, hello - has returned from Ukraine, where he examined the situation on the spot, there are no measures. So we do not have a control group within the Czech Republic. And you can't argue unless you're uneducated, or if you're not knowingly lying, choose government measures. You cannot say that because we do not have a control group within the Czech Republic. The control group exists in Ukraine, and then it exists in Sweden, which has roughly the same population as we do and has 14 436 confirmed covid deaths compared to 30 054. Like I said, right now in Sweden, kids are sitting in school, they're not tested, they don't have respirators. They're going to the respirator-free shop with their parents tonight, they're going to the movies, they're going to the pool, they're gonna be totally fine. And they have less than half of the dead. Well, Belarus, which has the same population and only 2,800 dead. [[Time.]] That's a little cherry on the cake.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u57	There. Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will now appear and Mr Jiří Mašek will be prepared. Sorry. Yes, please. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u58	Thank you. I just want to say thank you very much to those who stood up for me. And I think political culture in this House should look a little different. And I say, thank you for defending me. And I'm not going to ask for an apology from Mr. Volný because I just can't be insulted by someone like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u59	Mr. Jiří Mašek will now make a point of fact and the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura will be prepared and then Lubomír Volný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u60	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to comment on several previous speakers. For the serious thing that fell here, probably more serious - we always thought about taking care of the oldest, the most vulnerable, which we agreed is that the 65+ plus the chronics are sick. This was mostly achieved, the percentage fell here, Professor Vondrák and colleague Stanjura spoke of it. But, and we all seem to be able to count three-members if we were to take the absolute number of 65+, so there are about half a million people left, and that is indeed more than the ones you mentioned, Mr Stanjur, through Mr President. It's a big number. But a lot of these people just didn't log in for a reason, a lot of those people got sick, survived, didn't survive. It's complicated to count it to a thousand. However, I see a really big threat here, and I agree with you that we need to concentrate on this group and inoculate these people. Once Mr. Kubek at the beginning, when we had almost no vaccines, he suggested, "Bring your senior and we'll give you a shot first." There was certainly no room for that at the beginning and we had to give priority to the elderly. At the moment, I can imagine dusting this off, and before we let go of the vaccination of really all ages, young people who are motivated by, like, vacations and the like, it could be one of the ways to bring seniors to the vaccination centers. You mentioned the medical examiners here, not communicating with them. I myself work small-time as a practical physician and have experience with Astrouzeneca. He's really the problem, because the media isn't helping us much, and at first it was AstraZeneca for the old not, then for the young not, it's still changing. People have been compromised. And let me tell you, it was quite difficult to inoculate a dose for a hundred patients, and what our sisters were calling... [[Time.]] Yes, I'm sorry. So I'm gonna sign up one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u61	Yes. Well, you don't have to apologize to me again, Congressman. I'm just doing my job. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Lubomír Volný, and Mr Ivo Vondrák has yet to appear. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u62	I regret, therefore, that Mr Vondrák takes this as a criticism of the government. I think it should be of mutual interest. It's just 100,000 people. This number is different from what Mr Mašek said, because I am only talking about those who have already shown interest, they do not have a deadline. And I was in the 70+ category, so I'm down to 65 to 69. So I'm sure the numbers are correct. I'm not gonna argue with them. Another thing is how to inoculate other people who haven't had covid, they can get shots and don't want to. That's another thing. I wanted to tell the Minister that we gave him a chance to make our final comments on how to actually handle it. Because it's mathematically simple, and I understand it's not like a trivial problem. But in those practices - again from this morning's numbers - 445,000 people are registered throughout the Republic and 571,000 vaccines have been administered to this day, or to this morning, as Mr. Dušek sends it this morning, which is actually 1.28 vaccines per candidate. So we're missing some 320,000 vaccines that should be used by practitioners to cover 100% of the interest of those who are registered with those practices. Which is mathematically four-day capacity. And I know they're logistics programs. So I was the only one who wanted us to focus on this so that we could think about how we can help to make sure that there is zero in that age category for those who want to get vaccinated and, if necessary, convince those who don't want to get vaccinated. I don't have to go to the edge to say how I'd do it better or worse. But really 100 grand is a lot, even though of the 8 million we're about to inoculate, or how much, it looks like so little, but then these people are unhappy, because unlike the younger ones, they don't make it to the second day of the vaccination center. I understand. I was also in the vaccination center in Ostrava and got a very comfortable date on the weekend when I returned from Prague. So I didn't criticize that. I just wanted the minister and his team to focus on those 100,000 who haven't had a deadline yet. Because then it will be better for the families and for the society, if they have peace, that those who want, our oldest fellow citizens, are already inoculated. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u63	Now, MP Lubomír Volný will appear. I will read further apologies: Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting for health reasons, and Mr Jaroslav Vymazal apologizes today from 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u64	So one more time. We all know that the ČSSD will no longer be in this House, or the next. You have the opportunity to take volný Lubomír and Free Block with you into the political past. Before you rob the People's House so you don't have to pay a quarter of a billion heirs to Mr. Altner, you can do the thing you think is right. And make it so that you disprove these numbers: Ukraine, 41 million inhabitants, 51 thousand dead; Czech Republic, 10 million inhabitants, 30,000 dead; Sweden, 10 million inhabitants, 14,000 dead; Belarus, 10 million inhabitants, 2,000 dead. Divert these numbers at expert level and take Lubomír Volný with you and his entire Free Block to the political junkyard of history, we'll be happy to talk there. [[A scream from the diaper.]] I would ask that the MP here for the ČSSD not yell like a monkey, because his colleague was talking a moment ago about political culture, which made me quite laugh because I remembered a few meetings - a colleague here from YES also at me, through the President, right nods his head - but I remember here screaming: He killed those parachute people! You're the thief, you stole the stole the čapí's nest! The Odees were shouting at the communists that they were animals because they murdered Milada Horáková, the Communists called for Stanjur to be the killer because he murdered all the homeless and people in debt traps. I beg you, well, in this republic, voters, if they want to know what political culture is like here in this House, they're gonna play some viral videos in the House, and they're gonna find out that a colleague here who's been yelling like a monkey twice before isn't the only one who's been acting like a monkey in this House in a crisis situation... [[Time.]] That it is, in essence, a common culture here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u65	Time. Now, Mr Ivo Vondrák will appear and Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare himself. So, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u66	It doesn't bother me that this place is spit in front of me. We're not waiting for some disinfectant. I would just like to conclude the discussion with my colleague Stanjura, as a real problem is that the practitioners were still undersaturated by the vaccines that were intended for them. That was AstraZeneca, Johnson & Johnson. However, the situation began to get a little bit more excited about how this matter began to be mediated, and even the myth has been created that the regions are fighting a kind of war and competition for who gets the vaccines, whether they get it by the practitioners or the vaccination centers. That's not true. By its very nature, this cannot be true, because the vaccination centres went exclusively to mRNA vaccines, which actually means Pfizer/BioNTech, which basically had the only way to be distributed in this way. There were requirements that were simply given by the manufacturer. However, there was another problem. We've already decided a month ago to assist practical doctors in giving them moderna vaccines. We took over 20 surgeries, and last week we booked 75 surgeries. Seven and a half thousand doses of moderna. And now I have one important thing to say: 15 percent of the practitioners rejected them. And I have to say, they refused very rudely. Our firefighters are delivering these vaccines directly to their offices, and they basically had to come back with them. And then we have to figure out what the problem is, because that's how we can't handle the third wave of vaccination. So I think we need to figure out what we're gonna do about it so these situations don't happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u67	So, he will now appear as the last to comment, Mr. Jiří Mašek, so the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will be prepared with priority rights. And also Karla Maříková on de facto. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u68	Thank you for the floor. I'm also not afraid of infection here that it's not disinfected because I've lost covid. And for Mr Volný, through Mr President, I went through it with the fact that I followed exactly the advice of Professor Beran, whom I know from Hradec Králové, whom I greatly appreciate as an expert, and I took Isoprinosin from the start in full dosage, and yet I ended up in an ICU with embolism and pneumonia. But that's medicine, that's just the way it is. So that's just one point. [[12.40 hours]] The second thing I didn't finish, about the practices, a colleague named Vondrák said so. It's AstraZeneca, Moderna, Johnson & Johnson. These substances just didn't come in the way we expected them to. It had a solution. As a practice, I told people: Sign up for the center, trust him, get vaccinated. Whoever did this was vaccinated in the next few days. Whoever just didn't believe it was waiting for the fabric in our house. It was a free choice. And those vaccination centers for these age categories have these substances and they can vaccinate them. And to Mr Volný through Mr President. Fencing numbers here that only 2,000 people died of covid in Belarus? I don't know what time period you're thinking of, all the time? In Ukraine, 41,000, we have around 30,000. She's kind of the statistics. But look what a death with a covid or a proven covid is, and what a so-called death. And within that death. For example, our northern neighbors, who have been buying Isoprinosin in pharmacies for years, have exactly the same amount of death as us, but the deaths of covid are about one-third because they don't show it or show it badly. So we're partly the victims of our statistics, the perfect statistics of Professor Dušek. So I mean, really study those numbers. The Czech Republic is far from the worst in this comparison. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u69	Now a factual point, Mrs Karla Maříková. Lubomír Volný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It doesn't have to be disinfected because of me either. I mean, I'm not vaccinated, and I haven't lost covid, but it seems comedy to me when we're all touching the same surfaces here anyway. But to Mr Vondrák and all previous speakers at all. You guys are all still calling for practicals. But the practitioners have neglected primary care until now, they haven't been able to deal with the patients, they've often been on the phone, and now we're going to throw vaccinations at them again. So when are they going to take care of these patients and primary care? Here people will die of other diseases, heart attacks, cancer. I don't know if anyone's even thinking about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u71	Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u72	Right now, Dr. Mašek, I don't know where you are. I believe you. I believe you. And thank you, because you'll be in a possible study, if you do, in the category of people who survived through Isoprinosin. That's so scientific, isn't it? We agree on that. If this is addressed, you will be in the category that confirms the effectiveness of Isoprinosin. And it's gonna be exactly like the old people's home that Professor Beran visited first... Boys and girls, please... It's just gonna be like the retirement home that Mr. Beran visited first, where half of the 180 patients were positive, the other one was negative, they took a preventive dose, nobody got sick. And of the 90 or 80 patients, about 20 percent, I suspect, ended up in the hospital, but they all survived. So they're going to be listed in the statistics as proof of the efficacy of Isoprinosin, not proof of the effectiveness of any measures. So I believe you. And the statistics, that's exactly what we're talking about here. You're more educated in medicine than I am, I'm not questioning that. I'm just talking to people who, let's just say, have a different opinion from the majority. And the numbers roughly confirm their opinion that something was wrong with us. And their voices were trampled into the ground. Politically, medialy, criminally. They were bullied at work. I know at least two doctors who have been fired from their jobs. It's Chief of Ctirad Musil and Mr. Pirk who got it as a birthday present. If it was planned, his boss wouldn't give it to him as a birthday present. He got it for just criticizing covid. That's it. And all I care about is the discussion and the fact that the statistics are real, so that the numbers come out publicly. That's all I care about. And unfortunately, this House, this government is actively defending this. I want to know the truth, I don't want to enforce my truth. [[Attention on time.]] Feel free to send me to the junkyard of political history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u73	Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will now speak on the factual remark and then prepare himself as second in the order of Mr Ivo Vondrák. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u74	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to add that it is true in those regions that most regions do it in the way that Pfizera is vaccinated in hospitals or other vaccination sites. There's a difference between the vaccine site and the vaccine centre just to get the nomenclature... As far as it's concerned, the only thing that can be read is that there's a shortage of vaccines, because practical doctors would be able to vaccinate much more. The problem is that we try to distribute to modern and all the others that may not have such strict handling among the practitioners. That's one point. And second point. For example, we did it so that the vaccination center was only done in one district, where it was not possible to place it in the hospital for technical reasons. Otherwise, they're basically pre-prepared, but we haven't started them because the vaccines aren't enough to take advantage of the big vaccination centers. So far, it's managed to inoculate in hospitals or doctors' offices. And now it's just that there would be a capacity to vaccinate even more if there were enough vaccines, which is something that probably doesn't really belong in this debate, but I really think it is. Some unscathed seniors are not vaccinated because they don't want to, but because they prefer practical doctors and want to be vaccinated there. [[no]] And they don't have enough vaccines yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u75	Mr Ivo Vondrák is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u76	I've only had a short time. My colleague, through the President - who else should inoculate other than doctors? Than practical doctors? I mean, that's what we get the medical examiners for. The emergence of a vaccination centre is merely due to the situation that we had to inoculate millions of people in a short time. So if you don't know what practical doctors are used for, then I don't know what those practical doctors are gonna do if they don't vaccinate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u77	Now a factual point - Mrs Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I dare to respond here to Mr Vondrák through you. I didn't say they were gonna vaccinate the cleaners. I don't know where you got that, that they shouldn't be vaccinated by doctors. But the thing is, it's a little different from the usual vaccination when it's to be divided by age and vaccinated for stages. There's something different when we go all of a sudden, I don't know, half the Republic is gonna be vaccinated at some point. And those practitioners have really neglected their care so far. They really treated on the phone, sometimes they didn't answer the phone or e-mail. And today, when we rush them in the fall, I don't know, two thirds of the Republic that they're going to re-inoculate, they're going to neglect the primary care again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u79	Lubomír Volný will now make a point of fact; so far the last point of fact. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u80	As part of this very peaceful and dignified discussion, an argument was made that vaccination was decided by a doctor on the basis of a deep knowledge of the patient's condition. Please, on the basis of how deep knowledge of the patient's condition is decided by a doctor at a vaccination centre who sees this person for the first and last time in his life? Based on what information? And how much time does he have? Isn't it based on a five-minute conversation where a lot of things can escape the doctor? You guys came here on a speed course because you wanted to vaccinate millions of people at the expense of safety. That's given because the only person who really knows your medical condition is your district doctor if you've been seeing him for a long time because he remembers what you've been through, but the others haven't. And I started this discussion by quoting Professor Válek, and I'd like to end it. The date of 9 May 2011 was published in the Official Journal of the European Union and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 12. 2020 Professor Válek - not Lubomír Volný: Only a madman would give a vaccine to someone with asthma, only a fool would give vaccines to pregnant people. - I assume he didn't mean pregnant people, he meant pregnant women. I'm sure we can agree on that. And I'd like to ask Mr. Válek whether he's changed his mind or whether he really considers his colleagues who, after thousands, are vaccinating people with asthma here with this genetic solution and at least dozens of pregnant women when the head of the largest vaccination center in Prague said they're going to have mass vaccination or mass vaccination... to vaccinate women who, according to them, belong to a critically endangered group, Mr Válek. [[Attention on time.]] So are you an uneducated non-victor in the field of vaccinationology, or are they your colleagues? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u81	Now with priority rights Minister Adam Vojtěch and will be prepared with priority rights Mr Vlastimil Válek. The last two applications at this time. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer the questions that have been raised here, even if there are very many. So if I don't answer one and maybe I won't even know the full details, then please I'm ready to deliver some documents in writing. I'm sure I have no problem with that. So in this respect, I think that this communication can go beyond that point. Anyway, I'll try to answer what's possible now. With regard to large-capacity centres. There was a debate here about what the view of the places where he will be vaccinated is actually. We have an assumption that the large-capacity centres should be maintained at least until August. This is the way it is arranged within individual regions, with the fact that we will then go more precisely to the practice doctors' offices, in addition to the smaller vaccination sites as well as within hospitals and so on. So that's the view as planned so far. This is certainly related to the whole topic of vaccination with the general practitioners. I think that we will really have to rely even more on practical doctors. I'm ready to communicate with them as much as I can. I think that over the last few years, we have had very good communication with the representatives of practitioners, and we need to talk about what awaits us in this regard in the medium term. Today, practical doctors from about 3 out of 4 vaccines of Moderna have exclusive to each other - we are not talking about the second doses that go to the vaccination centers. But otherwise, these vaccines from Moderna, as agreed, are targeted at the practice of practitioners. Of course, it matters in this regard, and Mr. Governor Vondrák spoke about it, on the willingness of the practitioners. No one can really force them to do that. But I believe we'll find the deal. In particular, I say again, rather about the future after the end of the very large-scale centres. This has to do with what I was talking about at the beginning, that the distributor will soon have to compete with the vaccine for the next period, or the individual vaccines from the individual producers. With regard to the question of antibodies and some kind of demonstration, and it actually has to do with the so-called covid passports, I also partly indicated it. Here were the questions about how it's going to be with the 258 amendment on public health protection. We have now been discussing some regulation of the law at the Ministry of Health, so that we really aim only at what is necessary at the moment. This is indeed the setting up of the certification mechanism that is acceptable within the European Union countries in connection with the regulation that has been approved or on which there is consensus. Of course, as part of the certificates, it will be about proving vaccination, species and about proving or testing or losing the disease. These certificates will therefore be eligible in the context of cross-border contact. So in this regard, I think that's what people expect, especially before the summer season that awaits us. Otherwise, about the antidote debate and the antibody levels. So far it is true, and it is actually set in this information system of infectious diseases, that if you simply experience COVID-19 disease, then basically automatically in the system, its vaccination is postponed 90 days from the last positive PCR test, or the last PCR test that you will experience. But generally, you don't do antibody investigations. It's not done for practically any disease. And it is true that the debate about how the antibody level is to be set to prove in some way that the person who has antibodies at some point will still have antibodies in the following period, so that is still being done at the expert level. And even the ECDC doesn't have an opinion in this respect, it doesn't recommend that this be relevant in any way to demonstrate the infectivity within, for example, the question of vaccination, or the level of antibodies that would be adjusted in some way. So this is definitely a debate that will be held at the expert level, and I'm sure I'll be happy to discuss it with you too. I know this has been discussed on the floor of the Health Committee. As regards the question of the waiting lists for vaccination, as Mr Stanjura mentioned, it should be noted that these are not people in the senior part of the population who would only wait for the first term. There are people in the number you mentioned waiting for the second term, where of course there is a certain time delay of 42 days, or up to three months for the vaccine from AstraZeneca. So this really should be the number where they're both waiting for the first term and the second term. That's the kind of information I got from my colleagues, how I checked it online at least based on your question. But I'll fill it in, if necessary. That's actually how I was informed that the situation was up to date. The truth is, in general, more second doses are actually starting now. It also has to do with the fact that maybe more people are going to wait for the first dose right now, because let's just say those deliveries that are at the maximum possible at this point, are going to apply to those who are waiting for the second dose, that they are actually running out of time. So that's what we're going to do more than a few months ago. And otherwise, what was said here is that some of these people, of course, are waiting for practical doctors. With regard to the issue of vaccination of pregnant women or people suffering from asthma and the like, we are based in this regard on how the registration of the vaccine is set, whether there are any contraindications mentioned in this way. Indeed, none of these groups is explicitly excluded from receiving vaccines for COVID-19 disease. Of course, the truth is that it is up to the doctor to decide, which actually needs to evaluate the health status of the particular vaccine. That's just the way it goes. But the truth is that there is simply no explicit contraindications for pregnant patients or asthma patients. This needs to be based on some evaluation. I don't want to say who said what in the past or didn't say. I'm simply based on how the vaccines are registered, what are the restrictions in this regard. So I guess that's for this. [[13.00 hours]] Indeed, when it comes to changing the second term of vaccination, it is quite problematic to reorganize the dates of vaccination on the basis that people, for example, go on vacation and so on. It's just that if we're to inoculate 100,000 people every week, it's not a very small number. And if we simply have to move some large numbers of registered ones, it can really cause quite significant organizational and logistical problems, even if we don't want to complicate people's lives. But on the other hand, it is also a fact that the priority for the whole society today is that the vaccination should take place, so that there are no complications, even if there are health reasons, and there are, of course, the possibility that the person should be switched or postponed. In this respect, operators work very well on line 1221, who are able to help people in this respect. But really, even if it's not some purpose for us to complicate people's lives -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u83	Minister, I've been waiting for you to finish the sentence, but you're so inhaled, probably from your practice, that it's stretching. It's 13 o'clock, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to... [[I'm sorry.]] You guys are gonna be fine with your breath for a really long time. So it's 3 o'clock, I'll put out a lunch break. I will just repeat for the House Secretariat that factual remarks are written in order: Karla Maříková, Lubomír Volný, Pavel Bělobrádek and with priority rights are still in the general debate Vlastimil Válek. So I wish you a good taste and we'll continue with the interrupted point at 14.30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, it is 14.30, we will continue with the Information of the Minister for Health on the current state of vaccination. We're in the debate, I suppose. And I'll ask the Minister if I've correctly assessed that he's going to the speaker's desk. No? Just to the newsstand. I'll just read the apologies. Mrs Věra Procházková apologises between 14.30 and 19.00 today for reasons of work, she apologizes to Zuzana Ožanová today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Strýček apologizes today from 14.30 to 15.30 for reasons of work, Mr Špičák apologizes today from 15.00 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work; Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for family reasons; she apologises to Mrs Pavla Golasowská today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work. There. I have only written here in my remarks from the previous President that perhaps Mr Válek should have spoken, but I do not see him in the hall at this time. I therefore ask whether anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Mr. Volný. Real notes? Yes, so back. Mrs Maříková and then Mr Volný. Please, your two minutes. Just a minute... You can go now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u85	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just take the liberty of responding here to the Minister, and I would have something to ask you. I wonder if the antibody level is already known, when it protects the vaccine or the person who has experienced the coronavirus. I'm asking on purpose, because if we want to inoculate somebody here in the fall, some group of people, so if we don't know the level, we can't even know what level of antibodies they're going to drop to, and we can say, we're going to inoculate because they're not protected by those at the time. So I'm assuming if we don't know it's going to be some sort of discovery, or it's going through some kind of investigation. And then my question about the vaccination. So if people today get vaccinated with both of these doses, does any obligation for them to do so in the fall, if they decide not to want to be vaccinated, do they have to? Or will it be on their own free choice again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u86	Thank you. The Minister wants to answer, but first we need to hear other factual points. Mr Lubomír Volný, Mr Bělobrádek will be prepared - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u87	So thank you. I asked you, Minister, for a few things, because apparently the future Minister of Health, Mr Prymula, has announced that in the future people will probably have to pay for the re-occurrence, re-occurrence, and I would like to hear from you as the current Minister of Health, if you, as the current Minister of Health, guarantee for YES that people will never have to pay for the vaccination against covid, that it is just a fake and hoax released by Mr Prymula. That's one thing. And I really want to know if you're gonna arrange a study that will find out which of the 15,000 seniors who died in the first three months of this year - and I repeat, for the whole last year, for the whole year, for the whole year, for the deaths, for the covid, for the covid, without the covid, for the neglected care, for the fear, for anything, those people were 14 00 for the whole year. In the first three months, there were just 15,000. That's a dramatic increase, a quadruple increase. So I'd like to know if you're gonna make sure that there's an independent investigation with anonymous birth numbers that experts from those doctors' petitions and Healthy Forums can take part in, so that the public can be reassured that behind this dramatic, quadruple increase in mortality in this age category, there's really no vaccination. So I would ask you to answer at least these two questions. If you don't answer me today, I'll ask you about them tomorrow anyway. And the more you stretch it out, the more we in all our information channels will point out that the Minister of Health is afraid to answer these questions, and the more the thousands and thousands of times the people's confidence in this experimental gene therapy will fall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u88	So another factual point, Mr Bělobrádek, will be prepared by Mr Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u89	Thank you for the floor. I'd go back to what was said a few months ago and what's valid now. I was with my doctor at the beginning of the year and asked him if I should have my diagnosis vaccinated. He told me they're not recommending it yet. That means the expert recommended that I not be vaccinated. And now I've been through one dose, because in the meantime, the position on contra-indication has shifted in some way. So it's perfectly natural that there's some caution to some groups of people, whether or not the contraindication is there, because there's no experience, there's some studies that aren't finished, which are already there. So it has its dynamics in time, and it's nothing abnormal. It's a thing that goes on with the clinical practice. Unlike physics, where we know that every atom behaves exactly the same way, so of course in humans it is not. Everyone is a specific individual and especially in medicine, when there are other diseases or conditions like pregnancy, they have to somehow count on it to have some development and follow-up. So it's perfectly natural that, at some stage, even I wasn't recommended to be vaccinated, given that it was considered contraindications, and within a few months, within two or three months, this strategy has completely changed, and it is already recommended to me and I have been vaccinated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u90	Thank you. I didn't give the instructions before, did I? If you don't mind my asking, before Mr. Vyzula gets ready. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] I assume your colleague's inoculated, isn't he? Please, colleague, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon. I'm just thinking a few things, basically. First of all, my colleague Vondrák said that 15 percent of the practices are refusing the vaccination, which seems a little strange to me, until it's impossible, because it's their normal performance and they can't refuse the medical performance they normally do. Yeah, if I went in there and said, "I want a heart transplant from you," he says, "I'm sorry, I'm not doing that." But when I go in there and say, "I want to be vaccinated," and he says, "No, no, I don't do it, it's impossible." That's against the oath, too. And then the second thing is just a subject. We haven't talked about the fact that they can basically do the vaccinations, even outpatient specialists could do it. They know their chronic patients well. If I have rheumatology, I don't go to my practice, but I go to my rheumatologist. And he could do it, too. But that's just a suggestion. [[14.40 hours]] But otherwise, I would like to do it again - I have spoken about it repeatedly on the Health Committee and I would like to say that we must not forget about those patients or those people who have been vaccinated abroad. That's a very important thing, really. They're turning to me because I'm involved in this, but my colleague KaňkovskKaňkovský also said that he supports it, just as I just remember it, because people write to me from the United States: I would like to come to the Czech Republic, but now I'm going to be discriminated against, I won't be able to go to the movies, I won't be able to go to a restaurant because I don't have your vaccination. But he has a vaccine approved in the European Union. Just so you don't forget it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u92	Thank you. I have two further factual points: Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u93	Well, I'm not surprised we don't accept vaccinations from the United States, because I believe in Harlem that I would buy a certificate of vaccination for two doses of heroin or $30. I guess it would've happened in America. As for the 15 percent of the doctors, I hope there will be more, because the Hippokratův oath begins with "mostly not hurting." And when those doctors are professionally and professionally and humanly convinced that this genetic experimental emulsion is hurting, it is their duty not to use it. That's it. It's Hippokratův's oath. Of course there are other laws, but when someone believes that this thing is dangerous, they don't use it. I thank all 15 percent of the doctors, and I am telling everyone that it is in line with "not to hurt" that it is completely honest and OK and in accordance with the Hippocrate Hippokratův to pour the vaccine into the toilet, give people B12 saline and give them confirmation of vaccination. That's right, that's right. And, unfortunately, the diagnosis of an absent colleague now, through Mr President. I think everything about Mr. Bělobrádek. Like KDU-ČSL members, I think it's disgusting to abuse God for political purposes and to be called upon to falsely invoke him. But Bělobrádek don't think he's stupid, and he's uneducated, and he couldn't realize in his education, just as a veterinarian, that what he said is completely stupid, because no one could have found out in three months whether people with his very complicated and unpleasant diagnosis, a very respectable diagnosis would simply be or will not be affected by this experimental vaccine. That's not possible from a scientific point of view. And you're knowingly lying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u94	Your time, thank you. Mr Jiránek apologizes from 14:35 a.m. to the end of the day; Mr Polanský apologizes today from 15:45 a.m. to 15:45 a.m. for work reasons. Another factual point: I will ask Mrs Valachová and then Mrs Maříková. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to respond to the ongoing debate that, as a Member in my parliamentary work, both in South Moravia, but also in the Highlands or in Central Bohemia, in the regions, I encounter the hardships or complaints of citizens, citizens who really draw attention to what has been said here, and I am glad that my colleague, my previous speaker, said that it is simply not appropriate from the practical doctors, that they really reject vaccination or actually help. Often, in the case of, say, village practice, it is certainly appropriate to mention here again what my fellow speaker said, that of course there are many other things, care, health care, which is being renewed. Now that we're on our way to normal, I believe, and the aim of the Minister of Health is to restore the standard as high-quality health care not only in cities but also in villages, it worries me a little, because there are a lot of doctors and doctors here, and I would rather ensure that we really have ours, often it's seniors or people who have some kind of limited self-sufficiency, disability, so that their practical doctors can help them in the villages. But I have really come across this in more cases and, of course, in terms of complaints, when citizens or citizens complain that, unfortunately, the practice will not allow vaccination, although it would be possible, simply decided not to give vaccination. So I don't think that would be a completely happy approach. I would like us to find some kind of Wednesday trip, considering that there are a lot of colleagues in medical professions at the House plenary, and it would certainly be good if we were talking about solutions rather than mutual attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u96	Thank you. So, Mrs Maříková and her two minutes. Mr Koten will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u97	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I heard Professor Vyzula here about the comid passports, I cannot be asked by the Minister because the Prime Minister has promised us that the debate will lead to the covid passports both in society and in the Chamber of Deputies, so many questions are not answered. I suppose it'll be, I mean, whether I agree or not, in some kind of electronic version. And I wonder how it's going to be handled with those people who don't have a smart phone, and it doesn't matter if they're seniors or socially weak, but they don't have a chance to print it out. So what are they gonna do if they're vaccinated or not vaccinated and they have to have some kind of negative test confirmation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u98	Thank you. So, Mr Koten, factual point, then Mr Volný, Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u99	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make some comments. There's a lot of stuff going on here about vaccinations, about covid passports, about medical treatment. I would really, really, really like to have the circuit doctors start treating patients again here at this plenary because, unfortunately, the doctors treated on the phone with that last year and the covid and the various emergency conditions. I think it brings far more problems to those people who actually have completely different diseases, and they are not getting health care. And unfortunately, those people can also die from diseases that haven't been treated for over a year. That is what I think is a big appeal, and I would like the Minister to have some implementing rules for district doctors, and that these doctors should start taking care of patients again. Another thing I would mention here, so that's the covid passport. I can imagine that the state needs to have some database of people who, for example, have had disease, have antibodies, but I don't see any obligation to be vaccinated, and certainly not in small children. So that is one of the things where I am fundamentally opposed to, and in the case of children, the legal representative should actually decide whether or not to have the child vaccinated. And I am also against it, quite fundamentally, that we should be divided into citizens of the first and second categories, depending on whether we have had the disease, or whether we have the antibodies, or whether we have the antibodies, or whether we have been vaccinated or not. I really consider this absolutely, totally unacceptable in our day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u100	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný, factual point, then Mrs Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u101	I say hallelujah, thank God it is confirmed here in this House that there are so many responsible doctors in this country and so many real doctors who didn't embezzle the Hippokratův oath, and when they doubt any treatment, they refuse to apply it. They're obviously doing it in harmony with their best consciousness and conscience, they're doing it against the enormous pressure of the whole machine that's politically, medialy, economically against them. They're very brave people. And it's really a very interesting ethical problem. I would therefore like to know how Mrs Valachová, through Mr President, wants to address it. You want to force at least 15 percent - I hope it's significantly more - doctors who don't want to stab someone with this genetic experimental cocktail because they think it's gonna hurt them, so you want them to do it against their will? [[14.50 hours]] I think the solution is quite simple. Those people who want to be vaccinated at all costs should stop at some vaccination center, where a person is in a white coat who doesn't know them at all and doesn't know their health, knows nothing about them, has no connection to them, doesn't care, never sees him again in life, and neither do they, so he stabs them and gives it to them. And if bullying and chasing doctors in this country, who just keep hippocratus' Hippokratův, where the first point is not to hurt, and they don't believe the vaccine, the gene cocktail, they're gonna go after them, and we're gonna bully them, so we're really down to the level of Nazi Germany and the Stalinist Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u102	Another factual point - Mrs Hyťhová. Ambassador Mašek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u103	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to what has already been said here. I also disagree with people being divided into two categories here. I'm not denying anyone wants to get vaccinated, nor denying anyone who wants to get vaccinated. I think it's a choice for each of us, and everyone should have the right to make a decision. If that happens, which I assume will unfortunately happen, and covid passport becomes the only pass to normal life, then you can't be surprised that citizens are and will be mad at you. And what's been dealt with here, too, and that's a need for children's vaccination. I don't think we're in a state today where we really should start with this vaccine, which is new here, it's been here a few months, inoculating the children. And that's still mandatory? I think the person who really wants to get his shots, so let him get his shots. Anyone who doesn't want to get vaccinated shouldn't be subject to any attendance at school or the fact that he can't go to a restaurant or the fact that he can't travel anywhere, and so on. I think this is a really bad, bad step the government is taking here. And the whole covid passport is just a division of people into two categories. And I don't think that's really a good way to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u104	Thank you. Ambassador Mašek, point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u105	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hate to interfere with this debate, but something has to be answered. So specifically on Radek Koten through Mr President. Of course, acute medical care in the ambulances never stopped. The only thing that was limited was racing preventive care and some prevention. But I can assure my colleague and everyone else that it's running completely. What really helped us, and I'm happy to get back to it, was an eneschopenka, erecept. This helped us limit our contacts, and it helped limit the spread of the infection. I think it is important to say that we do not fear that practitioners do not work. They are now working at 100 percent and do not need any methodological instruction from the Minister of Health to work more. It's just practical doctors work fully. About the vaccination. The vaccination is optional. And most of the doctors reported vaccinations, and some of them are, yes, disappointed because they were late or absent. And it's about the co-operation, like I talked about, with the vaccination centers. It can be dealt with, and I'm hoping the drugs will walk and the doctors will vaccinate. But their duty is to do so completely to do it in 100 percent, it's not. And blame it on the Hippocratic Hippokratův that they won't inoculate... They will not be vaccinated because they do not have enough vaccines, Mr Volný, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u106	Thank you. And one more point of fact, Mrs Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u107	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not going to be able to react a little bit to my previous speaker Jirka Mašek through you. I'm sure the circuit doctors are currently working at 100 percent. I believe that, but I have to stand up for my colleague Radek Koten here, that in the corona pandemic many of the practitioners did not say that everyone, but in our Karlovy Vary region it was a really big part, they were on the phone, they weren't answering the phones, people were leaving messages on the answering machine, they were writing e-mails. The patients complained. I think we can see this from the increase in other diseases, such as cancer, cardiovascular diseases, when the primary care was neglected. I'm not saying it's now, I'm sure they've gone back to their dorms and they're working as hard as they can. But that was the case, and that is why I fear, when suddenly a large part of the population that will have to be vaccinated in the fall, we swamp those practices, I do not say that they should, as Mr Vondrák said here, not vaccinate, but again, they will not be able to attend to the primary care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u108	Thank you. President Válek is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u109	Thank you, Mr President. It's a good thing I waited for the end, because basically all the questions have already been answered. Maybe two or three they haven't gotten to yet. I don't even expect an answer right now, but I just wanted to ask that the problem of colleagues from Slovakia who work in the Czech Republic do not have a Czech ID card, do not have a Czech birth number. They have a permanent residence in the Czech Republic, are insured in the Czech Republic, received one or two doses of vaccine, and therefore should be able to print out a certificate. I can't, because the certificate is linked to the ID and the birth number. And this needs to be resolved. Of course, they get the card we all get when we're vaccinated, where they keep the information. But there's no ID number on that card because they don't have it, and there's a birth number other than that listed in their passport or that listed in their documents. So de facto they have to convince, because there's no photo or any other identifier, they have to convince, if someone checks them, and it's more about checking if they travel abroad, that they're really them, which I can't imagine how they would have done. So I wanted to ask for this because it concerns a number of citizens and other countries who live in the Czech Republic but do not have Czech ID card, they do not have a Czech birth number but are insured in the Czech Republic. Then I wanted to mention perhaps a marginal matter, but she concerns several hundred thousand people, and these are foreigners who live in the Czech Republic, they are here either as researchers, scientists, artists, they may be athletes, they may be Erasm students and others, they have been here for a long time, they have commercial insurance, which means they are not covered by the law. They will, of course, pay for the vaccination, the vaccination will probably be allowed over the holidays. Those interested will inoculate, pay for it. But they should somehow get into that system. They have the same problem with missing ID, birth number. So that's what you need to think about and remember. The third thing I don't think was discussed sufficiently intensively here. We passed some kind of vaccination bill, approved it very quickly. The law has some limited validity, the law applies only to the vaccination against covid, only mentions the vaccines that were purchased via the European Union as one large package. And the law will cease to apply, I think, in November. And I don't quite know, and I asked the previous ministers, I didn't get the answer, what exactly is the Health Ministry's strategy, whether that law - you want to extend its validity or amend it. And if you're amending, then when, because we're not gonna make it to the holidays, after the holidays, I don't know when, or if you're thinking about going to the law that unfortunately goes to the third reading on Friday and where there are other vaccinations, they're gonna get vaccinations against the covid, which was my proposal on the health committee, because there are all the vaccinations, but oddly not the covids. In my opinion, the anti-covoid vaccination is like any other, so it should be listed in the same way. But in some way, we need to deal with this here. And I would very much appreciate it if the Ministry came up with a proposal as quickly as possible that will support the coalition and the opposition, and which will have the support of the Senate so that it passes and that there is certainty for those who want to be vaccinated, that it will be free of charge, that it will be voluntary and that any complications that would occur will be dealt with in the same way as under existing legislation. Well, that's just three little notes that I think should be resolved. I totally agree with what was going on here with the practical doctors. I think this is a debate that will move forward when we have a law on the electronization of health at third reading or second reading, because what we are talking about, how the practitioners should actually continue to function, concerns telemedicine as such. The fact is, I've seen the wave of teleradiology at my age, which is part of telemedicine, then the wave when teleradiology was damned, then the wave when teleradiology was adored. And that concerns the whole telemedicine. [[15.00 hours]] It is good that, across the political spectrum and through the President, I am pleased that my colleague, Mrs Maříková and others, are performing like this, because we need to talk about telemedicine comprehensively, not only from the point of view of doctors, not just from the point of view of, say, IT specialists, but mainly from the point of view of patients. Telemetics should allow those who do not have a simple way of getting to a doctor or who just want to consult their condition to undergo this consultation. And that's a huge advantage that covid taught us that a patient who wants to consult doesn't have to wait in the waiting room of a medical facility and can consult remotely. He can use a variety of ways to do this. And it would be a good idea for these roads to be legal, so that the roads are safe, protected, not leaking data in any way, and not being sitting on Skype from both sides and debating. On the other hand, telemedicine and covid have told us that some doctors - which is happening everywhere in the world, as in all professions - can simplify their lives and basically retreat into virtual reality for various reasons. Both of these routes are extreme, and we need to look for a compromise that benefits those patients, especially chronic patients, patients who live, say, in small villages who live in solitude. There are countries where other solutions are not possible. I remember models presented to us by Australia's colleagues some 15 years ago, who explained to us that it was absolutely impossible for them to have a medical facility close to a number of farms, a number of those patients, which is why they introduced a mobile CT method, it was a CT bus. In the end, there was mammographic screening, colonoscopy, and the bus was circling these solitudes here, and that's where he was doing the tests. So the doctor used to drive - and sometimes he wasn't a doctor - instead of the patient. Telematics actually allows something in between. It would be a shame to bury her. On the other hand, we must not overestimate its meaning. And I'm glad there's gonna be a broad discussion here, I hope, about the legislation involved. I hope that the law will pass through the third reading, and I hope that it will also concern, as we have learned from the pandemic, its effects and how we have used or not used the situation. I would like to put an end to this, so that I do not delay, and please just these three questions, I will send them in writing if they were taken into account. I particularly care about the law, because I think it is absolutely crucial for the next year for those who want to be vaccinated, which I hope will be most of my fellow citizens. Because I would like to conclude by saying that at least two things we learned about epidemiology and hygiene statesmen that I was protecting myself by vaccination. I protect those who can't be vaccinated for health reasons, and that's part of the patients. After all, I work in Bohunice, there is a large hemato-oncological clinic, and all of you who have encountered this type of patients, and not only those who have various immune disorders, they know that a doctor and all their relatives in their masks approach these patients. Those patients are wearing their own masks. Because the risk of getting sick is huge. We protect them from all diseases, and covid is one of the diseases that we should protect them from. I'm not protecting myself by being vaccinated - what does it matter to me? - but I'm protecting these people in the first place. I protect those who cannot protect themselves and whose lives are at risk. They're all these patients. Then there's the third reason for vaccination, which is the third part of the answer to the question. I was just repeating it with my students because I wanted to know if it had changed since I was a graduate, and that's the eradication of some diseases. It is then said that I have to inoculate a certain percentage of the population when vaccinated. The bigger the percentage, the more likely I'll be to eliminate the virus from the population, or the germ from the population. That's just the way it is. We can believe that again, we don't have to, but with the state troopers, if we answer differently, there's a problem and we get a replacement question. In Brno it was a popular song by the former head of Department of Hygiene and Epidemiology. In radiology, it was the question of who first saw the nodding movements of the colon in the Czech Republic, and the answer was Professor Věšín. In conclusion, I would like to make a request or a comment. Here were a number of speeches, where many quote experts and experts, and I wanted to ask the Minister very much in this way to address - and address consistently - the Society's Committee on Epidemiology and Microbiology. I am aware that Professor Chlíbek and Professor Beran are members of this company's committee. Professor Chlíbek is a counselor. If we are to prevent various debates about whether one or the expert is the right expert, I think the only right way is for the experts' opinions to represent the opinion of the committee of the relevant professional society. Many of the names that fall here are members of the Epidemiology and Radiology Society. The company has - this is the only company in the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, it is the Society for Epidemiology and Microbiology. I'm sorry, unfortunately, not radiology. He has his chairwoman, I think, at the moment, he has a scientific secretary, a vice president. And that should be those who will say the official position of this professional society. And radiology got mixed up in there for one simple reason. I have experienced repeatedly, for example, when the unfortunate Japanese nuclear power plant exploded, that even various experts for radiology, who even even had a certificate from the field - which many of those experts who express themselves and claim to be epidemiologists - did not have an opinion. That was their opinion, and it's perfectly legitimate, because each of us has an opinion. But the professional companies had to give a consensual view of the field. We have rarely all agreed on this in committee. Often the discussions were much harder than the discussions in the Chamber of Deputies. Because we each had our own literature, we each had our own experience, our own knowledge, we all were convinced of our truth, but there was no choice but to come to an agreement, and then the chairman of the professional society presented the opinion of the Radiological Society. If the committee presented an opinion that was bad, which was bad, it returned very quickly during the election because a new committee was elected because it did not represent the opinion of experts. And I would ask the Minister very much that we now listen to the views of the professional societies and committees of those professional societies and not to drag rabbits out of the hat, i.e. still new and new experts. Because we have a dignified representation of expertise here, and this is the Society's Committee on Epidemiology and Microbiology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u110	Thank you. One factual point, Mr Bělobrádek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u111	Thank you for the floor. I'd go back to those statements. It hasn't just been said to me that someone is lying. Of course, it can be said to others that they are lying, but that doesn't do anything about the truth, especially when it's said by a person like that. Otherwise, I confirm what I said. That means I wasn't recommended to inoculate at first, then it was recommended to me. Now I've got a SMS saying that a person with this diagnosis has the exact same experience. And it is true that during the many months that vaccination started - because it has been many months - it has been explored, as in some groups precisely because it is important not to harm them, so it has been applied to people who have had diagnoses that were supposed to have no effect, the vaccination, while others have considered it and over time it has been done. It wasn't like it was in three months, but I actually noticed this shift between the two visits. It is quite logical, it is quite normal, it is quite standard, as medicine takes place. That means I don't need to lie, and the way it went down here. Otherwise, I was the one who called on us not to drag religion and bůh into a parliamentary debate when it was, in some way, a proxy problem. But I dare use that word here. To whom pánbůh will not give, he will not buy in the apothecary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u112	One more point in fact, Mrs Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I don't usually waste your time with reminders. But this time, only explained to Professor Válek's performance. He's absolutely right to hear the voice of experts. I would therefore just like to say, for everyone, that Professor Blatný has set up an advisory clinical group, which he has replaced, under the direction of not a political but expert Deputy Minister of Health at that time, Professor Vašáková. Which is the head of the pulmonary society. And there are more or less all the chairmen of professional societies, whether it's the Society of Infectious Medicine or the vaccine, epidemiological. So these experts are there. And under the motto "who works more, less goes to the media" they just don't go anywhere, they put it on the Ministry, so that it continues to process this media. So all these professional societies are represented there, Professor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u114	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. A point of fact, Mr Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u115	Mr President, thank you. Milan, he says don't get out anymore. I can't do it. I'm sorry, but this counter can handle anything. You know, when you're on your knees as a doctor with someone who's having a heart attack, you're considering, should I give it to you in the fourth or fifth minute, the adrenaline? I've got atropine. Next thing you know, if there's bradycardia, should I defibrillate? Nobody's gonna give you advice. You're alone in there. [[Suddenly raised voice:]] But all of you here, and you have no reason at all. Mr. vet - he doesn't want to drag God here, but he has an opinion. The Minister is a lawyer, and you ask him to answer all his questions. And then there's another doctor. For God's svatý, people, this microphone is obviously exhibitional! But let's not! Let the people who understand work. Mr. Freeman, you, I don't know, you, you, you defend something, but you have no idea. You really don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u116	Please address me through.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u117	Excuse me. And I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, through. You don't have... Why are you doing this? Why don't you let these people do the work? Mr. Chlíbek, professor, I was his receiver, I have military medicine. I studied six years of medicine, then grad school. And now I can do something in my field. But I don't have a clear opinion about it. But you all say this has to be, that has to be, that's wrong, that's good. Leave the people who understand. You don't understand! I'm sorry, you don't understand. Even Mr. Orthopedics doesn't understand. Even I don't understand as an urgentist. Let the guys say what they need to say. The Minister's lawyer will put it together. There's gonna be a climb, and we're gonna go with it. Why don't we trust each other? Why did we stop trusting each other? Why don't we trust the teacher to teach? That an orthopedic surgeon would operate on something? That I'm gonna save something as a paramedic? Are we all that smart? We're not! Let us be humble! [[The whole act is very emotional. Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you. Sorry to keep you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u118	A point of fact, Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u119	A couple of times. I don't understand. I don't have an education in that business. But it's you doctors who can't make a deal. You doctors don't know how to deal with a covideo. You can't even talk about vaccination. There are differences of opinion here. The only difference - it's not whether majority or minority. Let's remember 2009. Ninety percent plus doctors refused vaccination at the time against swine flu. That's just the way it is. And you doctors can't make a deal. Because one group of doctors here doesn't want to talk to the other. That one group of doctors refuses to question the other group. I'm not here as Lubomír Volný, who, in his pedagogical education, tells you how to treat. No way. I'm here now as a representative, a representative of someone who disagrees with government policy. And the person, the doctors, and the scientists, are making these arguments about me as the person they chose. They didn't vote for me in the election. But now, of the representatives, of the citizens who are here, they chose me as their vote. And I represent them here. And I want them to get off here. So this isn't about Lubomír Volný making some medical judgments here. I'm here to bring professional information to people on their behalf that you don't want to hear directly. And that there's a lawyer here, that's the Prime Minister's business, who he's going to marry as Minister of Health. But I'm here as the person your colleagues have asked, your colleagues - we do - to hear the voice here and to make a deal. And those who have majority media views have trampled these experts into the mud. And a beautiful example is those who simply refuse to give these people the vaccine. And just the public's confidence in it will fall gradually, and the public will break down, just like you will defend the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u120	At this point, I have no further factual points. I'm asking... The Minister is reporting for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u121	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will refrain from debating who has what education, what profession. I think it is about the fact that the Ministry is actually setting some basic rules, and they are, without a doubt, experts and expert groups and professional societies that are expressing themselves on individual professional issues. I'm going to comment on the debate now. I will try to answer some of the questions or suggestions that have been raised here. Maybe I'd start by saying something in the sense that vaccination would be mandatory for someone or for children and so on. I must emphasise again, and this is true from the outset that vaccination against COVID-19 disease is voluntary. We have in the law of the Czech Republic in the law on the protection of public health and vaccinations, which are compulsory by law, but these do not include vaccination against COVID-19 disease across age groups, including possibly children, if there is a vaccine for children, respectively. for people from 12 years of age, the vaccine was registered higher, as I mentioned in the previous block in the previous section. There we are waiting for the opinion of the European Medicines Agency, which should actually decide on this in the order of days. But even if he decides, it's only an option, not an obligation, not some mandatory vaccination by law. So just enough to rebuild it from the legal point of view. As far as vaccination abroad is concerned, I think Professor Válek, I have to have a certain positive report for him that, as far as people or vaccinated, vaccines that are foreigners are concerned are insured in the public health system, so since 7. 6. the functionality will be enabled so that they can actually print out the certificate and there was no problem with the identification. So it's 7:00. 6. According to the information I have recently received from my colleagues, it would be possible. It'll actually be through a phone number and verification that it's actually a person. It's a new functionality in the system. So it shouldn't be a problem here. They can't print out the certificate today. But it should be allowed from 7. 6. As for those who are foreigners and are commercially insured, that is, they do not fall under the Public Health Insurance Act, so these should be possible from the second week of June, when there should be at least one place in the county. They're actually self-righteous. So it's a slightly different system because they're self-absorbed, that they're not in the public health insurance system. But that's what they're thinking and they're actually preparing the possibility from the second week of June. [[15.20 hours]] As far as the question of vaccination and re-inoculation is concerned, no one can say exactly when it will be necessary to re-inoculate. I just happened to get an article from the New York Times where there's a new study that points out that immunity to coronavirus can last up to several years. These studies are still being carried out, even of course the producers themselves are still collecting data, they are still conducting some clinical trials in this regard, so we cannot say any exact date in this respect when there will be an obligation to be re-infected. We just don't have the data at this point, and it would probably be unfair to fake something like that here. When it comes to the question of whether people are going to pay for vaccinations, if they have to be vaccinated or something like that, I don't know if Professor Prymula said it or who said it, but it really isn't at this point that it's confirmed what's on the table in any way, so I think it's going to be an opinion or an impression that it might be in the future, but it really isn't. The fact is, and I agree with Professor Válek, that we will have to change legislation in this regard, so it will actually be one of the tasks for the next period, how to set up the issue of public health insurance payments for people who want to be vaccinated if possible. In the future, we must resolve this. I think that if we can find a consensus, it could still be approved in this parliamentary term, perhaps even in the context of some short-term procedure. I don't think there should be any major problem, but we have to discuss it. I'll take that as one of the priority tasks. And that's it, if I forgot something, I'm sorry. Otherwise, Professor Válek through the President, it is a law on public health insurance. Although he was adopted a special law concerning the distribution of vaccines, as regards the reimbursement of public health insurance, there must, of course, be updated and amended by the Public Health Insurance Act. And I agree that there are payments set for other vaccines, so it must certainly be this law, where any long-term payment of this type of vaccination will be established. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u122	Thank you. Your speech raised two factual points, first Mr Lubomír Volný, then Mrs Karla Maříková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u123	I really wouldn't want to perform anymore, but when there's so much lying here that it's unbelievable. I know you haven't been in office for a while, Minister, but you still went to the House as an MP. And you're knowingly lying. This government has already introduced a vaccination apartheid here. We already live in a country where people are divided by whether they are vaccinated or have some papers, and on the sub-humans who, if they don't have these papers, they just can't go to the garden. There's already a vaccination apartheid here. And you've already introduced the vaccination apartheid here, it's already a two-class company with us, here we are just divided into superhumans and animals, because we who don't have those papers are at the level of pets, bunnies, cats and dogs who are also not allowed in restaurants. So you're lying, you've already introduced the apartheid here, and you've been trying to legalize it with the 1225 press and expand it. And now we learn that you want to renegotiate it in July. So it's not a voluntary vaccination. The voluntary vaccination is that if you refuse it, there will be no sanctions or discrimination at all. If you reject this vaccination today with this gene experimental emulsion, mixture, solution, you become a citizen of the second category, who must carry other certificates. If you don't have those other certificates on you, you're going to become a third-grade person. This is the reality of the current Czech Republic. You've already introduced a vaccination apartheid here, and the vaccination isn't voluntary. You even gave her orders to some soldiers. There's a lot of pressure in different professional groups. We are getting tens of them, now hundreds of doctors, paramedics at all levels, teachers, soldiers who are forced and pushed into vaccination by the system. There is already a vaccination apartheid in this country and vaccination is no longer voluntary in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u124	Another factual point, Mrs Maříková, then Minister Adam Vojtěch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I would just like to ask the Minister through you. And I'm gonna repeat that question again for the third time, I don't know if she's avoiding it or she's forgetting it, but I can't ask that, given some of the observations of the chief hygienist. If those who get vaccinated with both doses of vaccine or use single dose Johnson & Johnson, they will be required to re-inoculate if they automatically undertake to do so. I don't know if it's gonna be in six months or a year, but I'm asking for that reason, because some of those statements by the chief hygienist are really on the upside, and the public has such a strange impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u126	Thank you. Minister, point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u127	If vaccination is voluntary, it will still be voluntary. That's just the way it goes. If someone is voluntarily vaccinated today, there is no reason for vaccination to be compulsory during re-occurrence. It is the same as in the case of influenza vaccination, for example. You get vaccinated against the flu, in a year it is an obligation, or a necessity, if you want to be vaccinated, to be vaccinated, but it is not mandatory, it is necessary if you want it, but it is not mandatory, so there is certainly no obligation on the table in this regard. I don't know what Mrs. Chief Hygiene's statement was, but again, if vaccination is voluntary, it will also apply to re-inoculation. As far as Mr Volný is concerned, I do not want to go into this argument of lying or anything, but he is not telling the truth, because even the amendment to the Public Health Act and the Pandemic Act, the 1225 press, where I agree that they still have to go through the adjustment, assumes that vaccination will not be the only option. The law directly states that there are three alternatives: either a person is vaccinated or tested, or he has suffered from a disease. These are simply alternatives to proof of infectivity. This means, it is not true that vaccination is the only way to prove that a person is infected, so that he cannot infect anyone else. So in this respect, there are alternatives in this bill, too, so the actual fact is that vaccination is voluntary and can be replaced by testing. [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u128	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Bělobrádek. Mr Lubomír Volný will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u129	Thank you for the floor. I need to improve my social media ratings a little bit to be mentioned, so let me make a controversial statement so there's something to discuss. With a certain degree of license and exaggeration, there are people of different categories in the Republic today. There are those who can drive a car, and there are those who can't drive a car. And those who can't drive it, it's because they don't have a driver's license. And the state wants them to have a driver's license not because it wants to bully them, but to ensure at least the elementary safety of road transport, that these people can control the car and know the rules. And it's to protect society, to protect others. It is also clear that the state in other cases, even if it is human health and lives, gives some conditions. That doesn't mean those people are being bullied or discriminated against, and it's their decision. If they meet the other conditions to get a driver's license, they can do it if they want to. So from this point of view, I don't think there's anything special about it. Nobody's forcing them to do it. It's up to them. And the state only wants it to ensure that if they drive, the risk of a possible accident or violation will be reduced. Of course, it's never ideal, but it's logical. So I don't see anything wrong with it. And I have to say that even the fact that some people feel damaged by not being vaccinated, yes, but there are also people who can't be vaccinated because they have a contraindication, and that's what needs to be reckoned with, and there are other options, as the Minister said. So I think we need to think about it this way, too, that it's not some bullying thing, but there's some kind of public interest, and that's no doubt that the possible contagion should be suppressed as much as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u130	Thank you. A factual point - Mr Volný, Mrs Aulická will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u131	I must say that such fascist rhetoric by a Christian is truly terrifying. Matching a driver's license that only affects driving a car, but it doesn't affect whether I go to the pool, if I go to a restaurant, if I go to a movie, if I can walk free on the streets, that's really perfect fascism. Please, discrimination for health reasons is forbidden. No one here can discriminate against anyone for medical reasons. Remember that the moment you talk to your constituents, and that's how you tell them at the election meetings. Tell them that going to a restaurant is not a right, but that it is a privilege - only for the vaccinated. Tell them it's not a right to go to the pool, but it's a privilege only for the vaccinated. Tell them that going to the parking lot of Kaufland is not a right, but it is a privilege for the vaccinated. And, Minister, you're lying again. The vaccination is not voluntary because you have even listed three other conditions here. Yes, there are people of three categories. There are people who are vaccinated here who, even if they deliver covid, can go wherever they want. Then there are some people who will take care of some paperwork, it's a cross-category. And then there's the trash that doesn't even have the papers. You've created apartheid here, and you're going to take it all down one way: to disgust people's lives without vaccination, to get them vaccinated. You, Minister, are part of an international conspiracy, mass murder, holocaust, and you will be accountable one day under Nuremberg law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u132	Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what to say anymore. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] I thought, of course, the debate about vaccinations and all the other problems or things related to it would be about two or three days. On the other hand, I would like us to get to the next point, and that is the level of education. Although we haven't seen Minister Plaga here in the long run. But on the other hand, I would just like to point out that in many things, unfortunately, society sees it that way, we really cannot agree that it is so simple that it is simply, people who are inoculated, who are being tested and then who have gone through it, because even those who have gone through it, one day the withdrawal period ends and in the future they will have to deal with the option. And unfortunately I, too, when I decided whether to get myself vaccinated, and I admit it, it is the system that is being seized in the Czech Republic and that is also Europe, so actually that you are being vaccinated, so of course we say that we are protecting ourselves, protecting the environment. And on the other hand, it actually allows you to be on a much simpler level in that system and de facto you are allowed almost everything. And for those people who, for some reason, don't want to get vaccinated, then in the system, it's a lot harder for them to move. I am saying this quite frankly, and that is what we wanted us all to realize, and it is, above all, in connection with the so-called. Covid passport, when a lot of people really see it, and the difference is, let someone call it different categories of citizens, so unfortunately society really sees it that way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u134	Your time, thank you. On 27. 5. and 28. 5. Mr Jaroslav Bžoch has checked out for work reasons. He apologized for business reasons. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons. And Mr Špičák apologizes today between 14.30 and 18.00 for work reasons. At the moment the words of the Holocaust were heard, Mr Bělobrádek resigned from the debate with the words that it was useless. So Mrs Maříková has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I still had a question. Minister, I don't know if he forgot, he didn't answer his passport. I read, although I disagree, but it doesn't matter, I'm reading that it's going to be in some kind of digital form. But how do those citizens who don't have a smart phone and who don't have a chance to get a shot or a confirmation of a negative test how to print it? So how's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u136	Thank you. A factual point - the Minister wishes to respond, you have the floor for the debate, so there is no limit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Covid's passport, or the certificate, confirmation, will have two forms. It's either the electronic part of the application or the physical part of the printing. There's no other way. You said: what if they don't have a chance to print it out? There just has to be some kind of confirmation if we're talking about proving it. So either it's in electronic form or it's in physical form. That's where it's going to be, not the form it takes, but the QR code is placed on that certificate, which will make it possible to verify that it's a genuine certificate, that it's not a fake or something. And so it will be possible to verify that the person really is either tested or vaccinated or has had the disease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u138	Well, thank you. I ask, is there any more factual point or anyone else in the debate? So, Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will just briefly read the resolution in a detailed debate, so I am just saying that a resolution with three points will be read in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u140	Thank you. One more time just to be safe. Anyone want to speak in the general debate? I don't see anybody in the room. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Minister, Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the debate in detail. I am opening up a detailed debate and reporting to Mr Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u141	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to the motion for a resolution on this point. And before I do, just a short gloss to this discussion. I want to thank her for being tense, because she has opened up a number of possibly painful topics. And if colleagues here were talking about not agreeing with the covid passport and so on, we as KDU-ČSL have a number of reservations about it. That is why we did not support the negotiation of the law or the House press 1225 in a state of legislative emergency. There really is a need for a broad discussion. And from this point of view, I am only sorry that my colleague Marian Jurečka here suggested a pandemic emergency as well as a pandemic emergency as to whether it is no longer time to end the pandemic emergency that most of this House did not raise its hand for this. And now for the motion for a resolution. Motion for a resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 105th meeting of 27 May 2021: "The Chamber of Deputies requests the government, to submit to the Chamber of Deputies an updated vaccination strategy against COVID-19 by 1 June 2021 with an analysis of vaccination capacity provision in the period from 1. 7. 2021 by the end of 2021; 2. to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies by 18 June 2021 on the specific steps taken by the Government to ensure the re-inoculation of the population of the Czech Republic by 2021/2022 including the provision of vaccines and the organisation of vaccinations and a sufficient number of vaccination sites; 3. to submit information to the Chamber of Deputies by 18 June 2021 on how it will adjust the strategy of the Ministry of Health's campaign to promote vaccination against COVID-19 in order to be truly effective."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-105-01-003-003.u142	Thank you. I have a factual point here - Mr. Vácha. No, that was a mistake. That was just a mispressed device. So I'm asking if anyone else is still interested in speaking in detail. I think I'm gonna check you all out at this point. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. Let me ask you, is there an objection to voting with one vote? I don't see anyone. I'll just wait a little longer... I think the number of votes is probably stabilized, and I'm taking the vote. Who is in favour of the proposed resolution? Who's against it? In vote number four, we are 83, for 71, against no one. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution has been approved and I am ending this point. Thank you all. And the next point is point number
