ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u1	28. Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 317/ - third reading We have renegotiated this item in the debate on Wednesday 21 April 2021 at the 99th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that the position of the rapporteur's representative, Mr Stanislav Grospič, may be different, yes, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, as representative of the appellant, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Petr Beitl, who is absent and excused, so we will have to ask another Member from the Committee on Social Policy to take up the role of rapporteur. I'm asking for an operational solution. We need... Yes, please, Mrs Pastuchová will take the role of rapporteur, is that correct? Yes. Just in order to avoid any formal irregularities, let us vote at this point in time to change the rapporteur so that no one can raise any objections. So instead of excused Mr Petr Beitl, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be rapporteur for the guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? We are voting on a change in the rapporteur. Who's against it? Quote number 157, registered by 101 Member, for 74, against no one. So the rapporteur's change is approved. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the press 317/6, which was delivered on 12 February 2021, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House press 317/7. We will continue the adjourned debate. The debate was interrupted when Mr Stanislav Grospič was to take the floor. He is not present, so I will ask another envoy, this is Mr Pavel Juříček, Mr Vojtěch Munzar will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that sometimes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so that the Member may speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u4	I understand that sometimes the House acts as if it were on another planet, I apologize to everyone with all due respect, which in a number of cases our citizens really think about us in this way, and this is one of these cases. Let me say that in the two years of the crisis that we have here, which ultimately shows the outcome of the state budget and the budget of 2021 and the budget of 2022, it is necessary to realise who held the economy in the Czech Republic at all, and that was industry, farmers, in front of all the hats down, of course, a high proportion of doctors who saved lives and worked imrére, but it is necessary to realize that we all behaved with great respect and respect to doctors, but to entrepreneurs, to industry, to farmers here, no one said a word of thanks. And now he's coming here, and I admit it's not just a matter of short time, he's coming up with something, which isn't just shooting in one leg, but that's shooting in both legs. I was talking here a while ago that businessmen and companies and organizations who have it, that's what they do, that fifth week vacation. Some accused me of wanting to be some modern slaver. Just for your interest, I'm giving seven days of extra leave at my firm in agreement with the union, but not just for free. Most of us entrepreneurs, companies always take credit for something. It is subject to various deferred conditions, motivational and stimulating, so that we have good agreements with employees, of course, to share employees with those who deserve it more and who deserve it less. That's why I'm saying we have different types of storage conditions in companies. And the fact that the Czech Republic has been going in this direction for a long time and companies are going in this direction shows that according to various analyses somewhere between 80 and 90 percent of companies are doing it. And it's exactly the way you get it all the time at home. When you volunteer, it motivates you, not ordering someone by law. And we're gonna split somebody else's money. You want to split not your money, but you want to split somebody else's money! How can we even afford this? And how can we afford this at a time when entrepreneurs have roughly twice the material costs, when the price of electricity on the spot market yesterday was EUR 120 per megawatt hour, and in 2019 it was EUR 24 per megawatt hour. So she's grown six times, and it's likely to grow further. This is what I have been signaling here about a year ago, that electricity prices under the influence of all the circumstances that Europe has introduced and we have introduced them ourselves, and we have also blocked various options for purchasing the core, so of course it is already growing with expectations both from the present, whether allowances and all other Green Deals and so on. And do you think that companies that hold the Czech economy, which is an industry that accounts for about 35 percent of GDP, so that we will really complicate their lives in this way? We're ordering them to do this? Do we really have the arrogance to say we're gonna do this? [[11.20 hours]] And what are the consequences? The consequences can only be that instead of honest employment of tribal people, companies will focus more on different agency employment. That will be the result. The fact that there are, say, somewhere around 270 000 to 280,000 people missing from the labour market on average today, and that we have a long-term problem with the liberalisation of labour law, we're still going to put these conditions into it? I think we're out of our minds. I'm sorry, but this is just unbelievable when we don't realize the present of businesses, entrepreneurs, companies. And do we want to do this on purpose? Do we really just have the courage to like ourselves politically in quotation marks - seemingly attracted to our employees? When we still support these employees with different support, including what I said, the vast majority of companies are giving the fifth week of vacation, but I repeat, with different conditions, so that they can have the motivation, and they can somehow appreciate the employees. I don't understand it at all, and I'm telling you, this would be a gross mistake - both short-term and medium-term, and I'm saying, terribly long-term. And these are terrible bad signals for the business public in the long run, not only for business within the Czech Republic, but you are driving away all potential investors who are thinking about what they will do in the Czech Republic. And the benchmark is relentless - whether it will build it in Romania, Poland, Ukraine, Slovakia or the Czech Republic. So we're destroying our own economy. And I'm saying, it's shooting in both legs, it's not shooting in just one leg anymore. You have to realize that. I have respect for all the suggestions I've had in the past over the past four years, but this is one of the worst ideas, still in custody of situational factors. But I'm also saying that it's not just a question of these situational factors that we've been through over the past two years. And I can tell you that even though I'm sitting here with you guys, I still live with this company because I've digitized it, but it's not the same. But Monday, Fridays, Thursdays and Saturdays, Sundays are in it. You guys really don't understand. I'm sorry, but it's true. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u5	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual comment, came forward. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Pavel for his words, and I would like to add some small inputs. For me, this is an incredibly bad signal here from the premises of the Chamber of Deputies to all people throughout the Republic. The bad signal is supported by what Pavel said here, but mainly by the fact that a normal person does not understand the subject. Which one of us wouldn't want five weeks off? I'd take it for six months. I'd use it. I've got work to do in the garden and everywhere, and I couldn't even make it. I think most people would choose for a whole year. Let us remember that in the past two years, at the time of the covid, most people in the whole republic were still at home. The firms were in debt because of it, and a bunch of people lost their working habits. And at this time, we come up with five weeks. For me, it's a Communist proposal for a new class struggle, because of course, a common man doesn't understand how companies are overloaded with worries about getting work done to arrange finances to get rid of debts, to re-set new orders in companies. And we come up with this? A normal normal person does not understand what is happening in companies because he has absolutely no idea, but believe that there is an absolute shortage of all manual labour in the market. You absolutely can't get one from the last cleaning lady to the top man. They're not human. [[The time, Mr. Congressman, is up.]] In service and throughout industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u7	Now, Mrs President - you do not have a right of priority, so either you can make a point of fact or you are signed up for the debate, then you will have your turn. Thank you for understanding. Mr Petr Dolínek, with a factual remark, has signed up electronically and is now next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u8	Thank you. I would like to assure the Member, through the President, that this is not just a Communist party, but the ČSSD also fully supports this. I don't think I'd underestimate an employee. Because they wouldn't be your famous companies without those employees, they just wouldn't exist, so don't turn them into some herd that doesn't know what they're doing. The employees know what they're doing. They certainly know what their rights are, and they will be happy to have time for family life and for what they need when we allow them to do so. So please, let's not make employees into dull sheep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u9	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual point, then President Vojtěch Filip, also with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u10	Colleagues, colleagues, you just heard. Not only will your employees not understand, but he didn't understand it, even a fellow Member - he just didn't get it. The situation is completely different. It's not that we wouldn't want more for our employees, that we wouldn't want to give them more time off. But believe me, in a number of sectors, this is simply not possible. See how many hours they serve in hospitals. See how many hours they serve in social services. See how much service is needed in the service of ordinary, such as hairdressers, such as grocery stores and shopkeepers. Try to deal with it and you'll find that when we give five weeks of vacation, we'll actually write off this industry or these services to a flop site because we can't deal with it. Everyone's on the edge tonight. I know companies where owners are forced to go back to the furnace after 30 years because they don't have anyone to bake. They're forced to sit behind the car because they don't know who's gonna deliver. And we could go on and on like this. Yesterday I got a call from a guy who's been on the market for 31 years, installing blinds, doors. He had 13 employees, now he's got five. And not because he doesn't want to give them money, because he doesn't want to give them anything extra, but because the people aren't on the market. They just aren't, and they won't be at least in the next five years. If you want to deal with the import, then we're just gonna lose it again... [[The time has passed, Mr. Ambassador.]] ...that the money we give them will go abroad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u11	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip with a factual remark. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will prepare herself, also with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Members of Parliament, I am listening to some of these woes, and I must say that I am in a dual role - as a statutory representative of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia - also have employees. And I have to say, I can imagine, because I've been through 12 years of manufacturing experience in my life - and the most I've ever had is when our planners called me up and told me if the factory is inflatable or not. And I have to say, at that time, Sfinx was a business that had its own technical department, we were making our own single-purpose machines, and we were the third-best enamel shop in the world. The firm was destroyed by privatization. And I mean, at this point, it's not something that's not possible. [[11.30 hours]] I understand employers' problems, but on the other hand, you who say that it cannot be done, that the Czech employee is the longest employed during the year, that he has the greatest workload and does not have the wages he has around. Don't tell me as managers that you're unable to find a solution. I understand that small companies in five, ten people have it much more complicated. It's gonna be very problematic for those five weeks of vacation, but I'm sure other companies can handle it. I believe that the fight against allowing those other 20 percent of employees to do so is not right. Leave it to them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u13	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u14	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond here to my two previous speakers - Mr Bláha and colleague Juříček, by your means, Mr President. And I would just like to say: we know the situation on the labour market very well. We know that in the long run, and now for the last five years, there has been a fatal shortage of employees, but that is the problem, above all, the devastation of the school system that occurred after 1989, and you know it very well because you are in the professional field and you need qualified people in particular! That's one of the facts. And the second thing is that 80 percent of companies, yes, especially larger ones, use as a benefit these five weeks already today, and that is why we will also propose a legislative-technical change in effectiveness from 1. 1. 2023, because we know that the effects on our societies at this time of the pandemic are really great, that they need to deal with this and we need to start the economy. On the other hand, the five weeks today are using a really big, substantial percentage, and those employees just deserve it. And how we look for enough employees within the labour market, I think five weeks will certainly not affect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u15	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, if my fellow Member were a little concerned about the economy and how employers work, she would find that the biggest employers are small and medium-sized. That's where most people work. And these guys can't afford to give five weeks just because there aren't people on the job market. They give a lot more other benefits. That means, unlike the factories where you have to get to work strictly at 6:00, you're there by 2:00, 2:00 to 8:00 and so on, so in these companies you have flexible working hours, when the employee calls in the evening and says, "Hey, Pepa, I can't do it tomorrow morning because I have a sick girl, I have to go to the doctor with her. Count on me not coming in the morning, but I'll try to be there by 10:00. It's okay. These are benefits that none of these big companies are capable of giving. It's being dealt with constantly when the employee versus the employer will agree on how they'll work together. It doesn't exist in big companies. And these companies, when you say to them, you have to give five weeks of leave, so they will also introduce the strict negotiations. Yeah, you're gonna be here at 6:00, and you're gonna be working till 2:00, not an hour less, and so on and so on. It's not just a matter of... I realize that. In big companies, that's a necessity, because this guy gets on the belt and does nothing but translate from point A to point B. But for small and medium-sized companies, the situation is completely different. And just think about the need for health care. How do we solve health care?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u17	Time, Mr. Ambassador, is up. Thank you. Mr Jiří Kobza, with a factual remark, then Mr Pavel Juříček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we have been living in the idea that we have democracy here for the last 30 years, and that freedom of both employers and employees is also part of democracy to agree on a contract of employment as they both find most advantageous. That means, if a company is interested in a person, it offers it not only salary, but offers it other benefits - service car, insurance, the possibility to use, I don't know, some recreational objects, if they have those companies, but it's up to them. So please, kindly leave these matters to an agreement between an employee and an employer, because they can agree on eight weeks' leave if it suits them, but do not force them to do so, because we have freedom and freedom to agree on what conditions I will sell my workforce and under what conditions the employer will buy it, that is the fundamental right of freedom and a free person. This is where we go back to the time of the RVHP, when everything was set, everything was directed, but it's just not like that. Remember that various companies from different countries work, where they have different customs, which have branches here, and they also import workers from abroad. So let's leave them, please, to their free choice, to their free agreement, under what conditions and how many vacations they're going to stuff in there, because there are a lot of other circumstances of their employment. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u19	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u20	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I must respond to my colleague Aulická, through Mr President. Yes, you're basically right. The labour market problem really lasts here for at least 20 years. And it is a number of factors including education, including fertility, including the fact that the Czech economy and the Czech industry have grown, the structure has changed. We haven't been able to respond to that for 20 years. We need to retrain employees, we need to turn them into mechatronics for those who are increasingly robotized and digitized processes. Without the mechatronics, the adjusters, we can't do anything today, but we need the ordinary people, too. It's just miracles don't happen. We've done a lot, and my company's making $7,200 employees today, so you can only imagine this ratio. And if I hadn't built houses, built facilities for designers, for workers, I wouldn't have kept them. We realize all things. And what Petr Dolínek said, through the President, these are just limited floscule, which are just that they know exactly. They know exactly what we agreed, and I'm going as a worker and I have great respect for the company right now for the workers, perhaps the biggest because I understand them, and because I know what their needs are, but on the other hand, business is business and we have to do it. I can tell you, and maybe I'll have to get off again, we've been sick in quotes over the past two years, because a lot of people -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u21	The time has really passed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u22	Yes, thank you. I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u23	Yes. At this point in the general debate, Mr Munzar should speak. He's not present, so I'm moving him to the end. Mr Petr Beitl is also excused, we are also moving him, and Mr Jiří Bláha's speech is next and Mr Pavel Juříček will speak after him with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the space I have been given. First of all, I'd like to turn back, because this is really not a good way to work. At the moment when this item is not on the agenda and it is placed in the morning, so believe that it is quite difficult to prepare for it, because we are going into something that I have not prepared for, and we are going into something that the competition is prepared for. It's called a car or a fake in business, and believe me, a good businessman doesn't do that to come to a meeting... That's what chains do, they invite their suppliers to the meeting, there's four of them, and they go and they go and they go and they're ready. [[11.40 hours]] So I'd start a class fight here in the first place. Believe me, when we answer that question, I open scissors between employers and employees. It's because we've been trying to create a new system here for 30 years, we've been setting rules for 30 years, and those rules are moving more and more where we came from, into socialism. We have more and more social benefits, more and more housing, education, food. That's what we could name it. And, of course, it's distorting the way our new generation is beginning to think. Of course, it has a lot to do with education, it has been named here, and definitely education is one of the sectors that has just degraded incredibly, but it has also degraded the whole system. If we're doing people who don't understand what they're gonna do, who haven't learned or studied with it, because they're philosophers or some sports managers and so on. This way I could name a number of disciplines that are done only for the eye, because there is no mathematics in them, there are no professional things in them that these people would have to learn or students had to learn, and the moment these come into employment, there is nothing left for employers to do but to teach them everything from the start, but that includes the multiplication machine, including the slow alphabet, because they can't write even one decent corporate letter, let alone create some values. And these people come to work and they know their rights very well. Four weeks' vacation, I'd like it right away next week, if possible. By the time it's five, she'll be arguing: five weeks' vacation, I'd like it next week. Not a lot of people care about the fact that the right to a vacation arises after working out some time, and employers have to work with it. I often find that people just take vacations, then they get sick, they don't go to work all year long, and we don't even have a way of tearing down the money they've chosen for a vacation they weren't entitled to. That's how companies do things. We overslept, we overslept in the way a new generation is raised. We have slept in how education is to be created, we have slept in approach, we have slept in relationships, because what is happening today in workplaces between people, between professions, between women and men, as we genderize, as we call ourselves. It can be seen very well here in the Chamber of Deputies. On Tuesday, when the Senate representatives came here, I thought I was the little boy who did something wrong again, because the way the MPs looked at us with contempt - it seemed useless to me. And in this state, we come up with the fact that we pour or put the log in the fire and say, "Make it your own way, you're incapable of knowing how to give people five weeks' leave, that's your problem. But that's not our problem, really. During my business, I have met a number of entrepreneurs, and believe that many of them are on the verge of giving up, to give up the small and medium-sized business, because they constantly have to deal with new and new demands of the state, new and new demands of Members who, don't be mad at me, in most cases never created a crown of value for themselves, which they could then give to someone else. It's just sad when people decide on others and don't have a complete overview of how the economy is formed, how budgets are formed, how funding is made, how the production plan is made. It's so obvious in one sector, and that's our health care. How are you gonna let doctors have 300 hours of work done? No one does this in this Chamber of Deputies. How is it possible that Mrs. Maláčová goes into control of companies and punishes them for having 10 hours of overtime more than she could have because they don't want to circumvent the law like she does in health care, when one doctor has three contracts to fulfill what is written in the law, because otherwise he couldn't work out the 300 hours. How come we're not dealing with this here in the Chamber of Deputies? That health care, which is the most important element of being able to work and live in peace and health, makes up these overtime hours? Yeah, not officially, but it's fictional and, in fact, it is. Ask everyone who's sitting here today from the doctors. Ask the paramedics who sit here how much they worked in the finals when they were at work. How is that possible? How is it that we're not dealing with this? This is the most important thing we should name. Then we raise our hand victorious here and say, "Yes, we want five weeks' leave, but that 300 hours' service is in the hospital, which is none of our business. So if you want to fight for people's rights, start with the state administration, start with health care. And when you get it together, come and tell the businessmen that it would also be good for us to change that. And believe me, until then, we'll change it ourselves. Yes, we'll find a way to reward people better. Yes, we'll find a way to give them more free time. Maybe I've canceled working Sundays in the last five years. I'm just where I have to be, because unfortunately, that's the law. Sundays are normal hours, and if the market makes up that you, Blá, are open, then I have to be open. At that point, the employee has to go to work, and that's far more important than having five weeks' vacation. Believe that family does that on Saturdays and Sundays, my dad and my mom can spend time with those kids, because they won't make it through the year. No employer will give them five weeks' leave during the holidays. That's what happens in education, but it won't happen in health care, or in the employment office, or in the town hall. And believe that it can't happen in another sector, that parents choose to take time off with their children. And much more important for them to be content, for families to flourish well, for family relationships to be well established, is that they can be together at least one day a week. [[11.50 hours]] It would be enough if we canceled work on Sunday, we wouldn't have to have unnecessary open markets, because they're not going to bring us anything anyway, they're going to take their earnings abroad, and believe that no company that's open on Sundays in a department store, so besides November 17, they rarely make a profit, they usually make a loss, because those people are much less in those stores, they cost a lot more because people don't want to work on Sundays, so they have to take temps that they pay twice, three times. At that point, there's no way to make a profit. So this is a loss-making matter for our republic, believe it. And just because some multinational companies stomped on it: You'll be open or arranged, and the MPs noded to it, so believe it's far worse than having four weeks' vacation. You'll do much more for people with children at home on the weekend, when they spend time together, when they can go on trips together, when they can create something around the house, in the garden, learn how authority comes naturally. The thing is, the baby doesn't actually meet both parents in a week because either Dad's on nights or mornings or afternoons, mom works either mornings or nights, doesn't meet each other, works on Saturdays, Sundays. Far more important than five weeks for me: cancel working Sundays. Believe that most people applaud you, and for that, you get the points you want to earn here. In the last two months, we've approved so much handing out and so much social benefits that the nation's head is all over it. So, please, let's stop spreading discord among people in that employers don't want to give anything to their employees. Believe that if there was another economic situation, even most companies would be able to give much more to those employees, much more to do for them. The fact that we've lost most of our savings in most companies in the last 10 years is an immeasurable fact that no one here absolutely takes into account. We want five weeks' vacation, and you're gonna have to deal with the fact that you haven't been able to run it all you want for two years. That's your problem. You don't know how to solve it. I mean, look, the whole world is dealing with him. You also see it on price increases, on the fact that it is not a commodity. De facto, if I had to take it, we'd go back to the state that was before 1989. It's said again on the radio that there won't be wheels under the Christmas tree like it wasn't when I was little, because there's no one to make them, there's no one to transport them, and there's no one to sell them. But we're just sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies saying, "More benefits for everyone." Well, the best thing would be if we stayed home and did nothing at all. Believe it or not, at that moment, we would have lived by that fairy tale: roasting pigeons fly right into our mouths. Yes, in the mouth, right. So think about what I've been saying to you here, and believe me, every good businessman appreciates his employee because he really doesn't do anything without him. But believe it, like an employee goes to work for eight hours in most cases, so most of those entrepreneurs are 16 hours at work, including Saturdays, often including Sundays. There's no mention of that, there's no mention of the huge difference in when an employee comes in and says. I'm not coming to work tomorrow. You don't have a chance to do anything. This has happened three times to me in the last three months in Mladá Boleslav, where there is an absolute shortage of labour. Just because I put a manager there after the covide, who wanted to make sure that the employees who had learned to work during the covide were at home to do their homework and not go in front of the building every half hour to smoke. So they ended up from an hour to an hour. I'm not going tomorrow, I don't care, I'll find something else. Unfortunately, that's how it works these days. The fact that we misjudged the situation, we had the opportunity at the time of the covid to develop companies by rewarding, yes, subsidizing companies, but they let them decide what the employees would do, not like it was that the employee would stay at home, so you get the money if he was at work, so you get nothing at all, so we could move our republic. So please, we're done with the covid, we're in debt companies, none of us know what's gonna happen in a month, if we don't have to close again, and instead of talking about how we're gonna do it, when the situation happens, we're talking about giving five weeks' vacation. Well, that's a great message to all companies, that's a great opportunity to improve our country's economy, how to set up better working conditions. That's a great message, because the one out of the ten people who might have stayed at the firm when he's home, the nine of them have to do the job for the tenth time. What are they gonna say? Well, Franta, you can't take a vacation, we have a contract. We're not gonna do that, so we're not gonna get the money from the contract, so we're not gonna get the bonus. So what's Franta gonna do? He's not taking that vacation. So what happens at the end of the year? Well, it turns out he couldn't take a vacation, and the money's gonna pay off, right? But he gets the money normally because there's no more money. The company can only give away what it earns. Believe that there are few such as, in addition to multinational companies that export their dividends out, so few are those that would not invest again in making us work better so that we have better equipped machines and equipment so that we can have a better environment so that we can, for example, provide employees with cheaper housing or recreation in the future and so on and so on and so on. So I thank you for your attention and I will be glad if you take my words to heart and for the next five years we will not want to make another social revolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u25	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, Mr Leo Luzar, will make a point of fact. There are other entries. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u26	Yes, thank you. I just wanted to finish the idea that I followed up with my colleague, Aulická, who I respect, through the President, and I address it through the President. I have to say, in those two years, entrepreneurs are really mentally depressed. They must have survived all the connections with the fact that we threatened to shut down the industry and shut down all the businesses first. That was a rumble. It didn't even show up here, but what I was experiencing with entrepreneurs and companies, so everyone said who thought about the future and who also has some sort of elementary responsibility for society, so everyone said, you guys went completely crazy there, it's gonna be the end of the Czech Republic, because it wasn't a major power, as it was March, April and May last year, it was just an ideology here in the Czech Republic - so let's just close it here, because we don't care, because we need to solve quarantines, covids and so on. [[12.00 hours]] And then you wanted to invent a family member's treatment of 100 percent, which would, of course, make half the employees, the women, go to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u27	Mr. Ambassador, time's up, and at the same time it's 12 o'clock, we're gonna have to focus on another point. [[- Yes, thank you.]] Thank you for your understanding, and I am interrupting this item in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. We will focus on the point that we have firmly placed for 12 hours, this is the appeal of Hana Lipovská from the Czech Television Council. At this point, I'm going to hand over the meeting's management and then we're going to focus on this firmly placed point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-005-028.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice noon. So now I'm opening a fixed point at 12 o'clock called
