ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u1	24. Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws / House printing 1143/ - third reading I will ask that Mrs Jana Pastuchová and Mr David Kasal take their seats at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy. I note that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 1143/3, which has been delivered to you on 6 August 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered to you as House Press 1143/4. I ask the draftsman's representative, Mrs Pastuchová, if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? [[Yes.]] Yes, please. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Just a little while longer before it's quiet in the House, Madame. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u2	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me thank all fellow Members and Members, and I will be happy to name them here. Member Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová. I will also add to Mrs Richterová, who has joined the comprehensive amendment, which together we have modified some things that have not been taken into account in the original press 1143. On the one hand, I am very pleased that we have brought this House press here to the third reading. On the other hand, I am not pleased that this law has not been submitted to a colleague or to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. She really had four years to do this, and I will repeat once again that on the Social Policy Committee, we have pointed out several times across the political spectrum that if we are not presented with the laws that are needed and there is a threat that nothing will change, then we will take the parliamentary initiative. Nothing happened, we took the parliamentary initiative and today we will vote on the second part of the amendment to the Social Services Act. I am very pleased that the first part, which was an increase in the contribution to the care of residential services in the third and fourth levels, passed through the Senate without the Senate returning this House press to us. I'm happy for you. [[11.00 hours]] I got some e-mails that we don't support field and home care by comparing the care allowance to the residential services. I stand by it that we are the contribution... and thank you for all of it, because the care allowance is for a given client, who is granted to him on the basis of his health condition. If I have someone close to me that I can't take care of at home anymore, I can't give him that care, even if I want to, he needs 24-hour care, and we'll be together with my loved one, we'll decide he's going to some kind of residential facility, so I don't see why he should have less care allowance than the one at home. Sometimes, of course... It applies, thank God, to a few cases, but from my position, and I have here also fellow doctors, paramedics who go to households, and we know that I support home care, I will be happy if we have as many seniors as possible to the highest age at home, but the care allowance that clients have at home in third, fourth grade, sometimes does not serve to be used for full care for the senior. Sometimes this contribution is used to... just not for the purposes it's supposed to be for. Sometimes, I say sometimes. So I'm glad for that. Today we should approve the second part of this law with a parliamentary initiative. I'd like to introduce what we designed there. I must say that this part is actually a draft of the Social Services Act, which was at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and there are only points on which there was agreement across the association of providers across the region, Mrs Žitníková joined with her union... or trade union organization, thank you. [[The voices from the diaper indicate.]] So we really wanted to vote at least on what's a match, and it didn't come back from the Senate, which I can't say right now. I believe that at the last minute this law will come into practice. What is going on in this House press and the second part of the Social Services Act and what we will be voting on, I would like to tell you. The first proposal is to release the automatic valorisation mechanism of maximum payments. From 2007 to 2013, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs increased the maximum remuneration in social services with a certain regularity always at the beginning of the year. The proposal to introduce automatic valuation of these payments was in particular a response to the absence of an increase in the maximum level of remuneration since 2014. However, since this amendment point has opened up a discussion on systemic and parametric changes in the contribution to care, which require a broader and longer professional discussion, which unfortunately is not an option at the end of the term of office, this point is deleted under this amendment. I say, we really wanted to, it was a compromise of everyone we were working on on this amendment. Setting payment limits is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the form of amendments to the relevant decree 505 of 2006. Whoever is concerned with social policy certainly knows that both we MEPs and we on the Committee on Social Policy, as well as... the Prime Minister's challenge was several times to appeal to the Minister to change this decree 505. Unfortunately, it didn't. It is also informally caring in this proposal. New amendments to the law in the field of so-called informal care are proposed in order to provide support to persons providing assistance dependent on the assistance of another natural person, through social services in the form of advice and training skills for special care. At present, help and support for carers is not regulated by legislation, even though informal care by family members generally promotes intergenerational solidarity allows the client to remain in a natural environment, cost-effective form of care is cheaper than that of a formal institution. The next item is the combination of nursing and personal assistance. At this point, I think you've all gotten a few e-mails in your e-mail boxes. Some providers disagree. Here, with this combination of care services and personal assistance, we have really done a great deal of work to make it clear to everyone why it is so, why we did it or not, but proposed it. So really in the explanatory statement, it's on two and a half pages of A4, I'm not going to read it here. Another proposal for this amendment is the merger of residential services, which means that we propose the unification of social services here; homes for seniors, homes with special regime and homes for disabled people. At present, the practice of providing social services does not fundamentally separate these species. In senior homes there are clients who fall into the target group of special regime and vice versa. One further objective of this measure is to reduce the administrative burden, as there are now two registrations, and only one will be sufficient for both kinds of homes after the change. Another aim of this proposal is to remove from the service name the word "special regime," which we believe is segregating and stigmatizing. Therefore, only one service will be amended by the name "social care home', which will be intended for a broad target group of persons specified by the provider when registering. According to the registered circle of persons, the mode of the device will then be set. The basis is to clarify the social services system, eliminate duplication in the social services system. The implementation of the planned priorities should contribute to the gradual reduction of the administrative burden on social service providers, which I think every reduction in administration in any social and health services department will help us terribly. And I'm glad for that. [[11.10 hours]] The next item is social therapeutic activities in asylum houses. As we all know, asylum houses are intended for those who have lost shelter. This unfavorable situation is almost always associated with traumatic experiences, such as domestic violence, sudden loss of life - style, and others. At present, most asylum homes are really in some way... or they are dealing with providing social therapy services to their clients, because those clients really need it urgently. At the same time, however, a number of asylum houses are not able to provide sufficient support according to the individual needs of the client, especially socially therapeutic activities. People with a high individual need for support cannot currently address their life situation. Expanding the basic activities of this social service would enable more efficient provision of services to a number of people with a high level of support, such as dependants, victims of crimes, and would better meet the needs of their vulnerable clients. The last proposal I would like to present to you in the context of the comprehensive amendment that we have drawn up is to narrow the maximum payments by 20 per cent in the framework of the transitional provisions of the amendment § 72 and 73, and this point has been very, very discussed. There was no consensus on this, so we have again reached a compromise, and in the context of the expert discussion that has taken place in recent weeks when this comprehensive amendment is being drawn up, the increase in maximum remuneration is narrowed down only in areas where the increase in the recent years has caused real problems and de facto harms the social services clients themselves. The increase is therefore proposed within the framework of the amendment within the daily limit for catering services in social services facilities, where the maximum limit is now 170 CZK for a full-day meal and where a maximum of 75 CZK can now be determined for lunch. In the case of residence services, clients, all who pursue it again, are protected by another regulatory mechanism, and that means that they must always be left with 15 percent of the guaranteed balance of their income, which is a pension. If someone's objecting or worried that we're gonna be to clients again... those who have little, that they're gonna lose money, that's how I explained that they always have 15 percent left. Any increase will not affect clients with an income of up to CZK 13,411 and would fully affect only seniors with an income of over CZK 14,823. So if the senior with a monthly income of CZK 14,823 and more, it will increase the diet by CZK 600 per month and the total payment for a full-day meal five times a day will be CZK 5,600. The increase in maximum payment for lunch, which is soup and main meal, including diet regimes, is currently CZK 75. This is proposed mainly because of both the production, cooking of lunch or its purchase from private breweries - because some of the accommodation services have imported lunches - so for those 75 CZK it has really stopped being or is no longer really possible nowadays. In fact, in addition to feedback from regions, towns and municipalities, this situation was documented by a survey of the association of social services providers from September 2020, which involved 518 providers of residential and field social services. If I'm not going to read it to you as a percentage, you can find it in the reason message. This increase is related only to the basic activity of the care service, provision of food or help to ensure food, that is the payment limit, mentioned in the current version of Implementing Decree 505, which was not, unfortunately, changed despite the appeals. The money obtained from the increased remuneration of the social service provider will be used to increase food standards, which will bring better food, a more varied diet for our seniors, who have to spend their autumn of their lives in residential services. I will not forget the most beautiful words through your colleague Lenka Dražilová, who has long worked as director in one residential service, and she said that clients of residential services - the only pleasure ever is five times a day when she fills her belly, and then they are satisfied. So I'm gonna be so happy when our seniors fill their tummy with a more colorful, better diet, more fruit, more vegetables, and I'm gonna be happy for your support. I know I've been longer, but it's a really big amendment to me on social services, which, as I say, unfortunately should have been from someone else's workshop, and again I thank my colleagues across the political spectrum, who participated in this amendment, and on a comprehensive amendment, for your work, and I believe we are going to make this second part of the Social Services Act a successful end, and we are not going to let it fall under the table after all of our long work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u3	I thank the appellants' representative, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, and I am opening up a debate in which Mrs Olga Richterová is the first to sign up, Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u4	Thank you for the floor, fellow Members and colleagues. Since many have been said, I will simply add very briefly that pirát were not sure about the first version of the amendment, so maybe I am not signed there, and then we worked hard to discuss changes that would be beneficial for clients, which would actually use the good that was proposed in the big ministerial amendment, and at the same time they would move the system forward, simplify and clarify. In addition to the things put forward by Mrs Pastuchová, I would like to say one more thing. There are still two amendments concerning Section 52, but in practice a situation other than that provided for in the section. The point is, when you're informally caring, you often have a lot of uncertainty today when your cared man is sick and hospitalized. In addition to the comprehensive amendment, we have the opportunity to vote on amendments C1 or C2, which I have tabled and which will resolve the situation when people take care of a person at home in the third or fourth degree of addiction and after one month of hospitalization, or one month in a hospital, and this can simply happen fairly easily in people in the third and fourth stages of addiction, so the entitlement to the care allowance ceases. So we don't really give any assurance to the carers that they would at least have something like, if I simplify it a little bit, a notice period like that of other workers. Therefore, we propose in this amendment that the possibility of a maximum of three months' hospitalization can be practically used. Hospitalization just can never be longer, and as it's done today in practice, people are going home for a day, for two, and then they go back to the hospital for the medical care they need. So I submit a proposal of C1 and C2, which regulates the provision of aid pursuant to Section 83. I'm presenting it for the reason that people aren't being moved home and back from the hospital, and that there's more security for the carers. [[11.20 hours]] Therefore, we propose in the amendment that the possibility of maximum three months of hospitalization can be practically used. Hospitalization just can never be longer, and as it is done today in practice, people are for a day, for two returned home, and then they go back to the hospital for the necessary medical care. So I submit a proposal of C1 and C2, which regulates the provision of aid pursuant to Section 83. I'm presenting it for the reason that people aren't being moved home and back from the hospital, and that there's more security for the carers. What's the difference between the two proposals? Please, there's a chance for you to make a decision. C1 is the provision of assistance by a person close to § 83 and C2 is the provision of assistance under § 83. To imagine that, the provision of assistance by a close person is actually defined by § 22 para. 1 of the Civil Code, where they are relatives in a number of direct, siblings, husbands, partners, other persons in relation to family, such as aunts, nieces. On the contrary, the second proposal will give a wide range of opportunities to all those who are giving the assistance today, and so are the social services assistants. And I support our approach to informal caregivers of relatives, those are close people, even assistants, and I would like them to go through the C2 proposal. But since I know that there was a problem with some part of the spectrum, I have also put forward a second option to vote. And now all I'm saying is that I'm going to propose a change in the procedure to reschedule those letters so that the C2 vote, which is wider, is simply to provide assistance to anyone in general who is caring, and to others to vote to provide assistance to a close person. These are, therefore, two other proposals that could improve the situation of informal carers. And in order to have an idea of what we can improve today, I'm just going to put it very briefly. In fact, we provide legal advice for carers under the Social Services Act, education in methods of care, the use of compensatory aids and the like. Those are the things that social services have had to do until now, like, on a cover-up. It's a little senseless and illogical, but it was. And in addition to this support for informal carers, where they just become the target group of social services, and for that I'm glad and I hope it passes, there are a lot of improvements. Our team may have developed social therapeutic activities in shelters so that asylum houses can provide what people need really, and that is to teach them how to get out of the bad situation in which they are. These so-called social therapeutic activities are exactly what they are and still cannot legally provide it there. So that's another example. And then the last thing I finally decided to sign this comprehensive amendment is that there is an automatic valorisation mechanism that would mean that people are increasing the cost of services they need, not increasing their contribution to the care from which they pay the services. So this important release of this pointless cost-relevance, but the concretement of the care allowance has succeeded, and that's the main reason why I don't think we need to worry about this change. If there were any more questions, I think it's nice for us to get this straight, because it would be a shame if this novel, which is supposed to help, had aroused unnecessary emotions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u5	Thank you, Mrs Richterová. The colleague checked out from the factual point of view, in which case Mrs Kateřina Valachová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, the Social Services Act is a law that is supposed to allow us, first and foremost, to take care of our loved ones in the home environment. And where this is not possible for various reasons, it is intended to ensure that we are able to arrange such care through institutions as close as possible to our home and home. We have supported a number of parliamentary initiatives on social services, and we have always had it in our heart and in our vote to strengthen the position of carers in the first place. Now I come to the substance of the matter, and it is important for supporting us in the final vote, to what extent these changes, which we are to vote today, strengthen the rights of carers. I thank, in particular, the last speaker, because she has mentioned several things that we have applied in the framework of amendments to both the Social Committee and the House plenary. And I would like to say to myself that towards the carers - and this is really very important for us - their ability to support educational, professional, compensatory aids and the like is strengthened, so I appreciate it. I also appreciate the fact that we've come to some agreement to adjust the payments. You know that we have repeatedly been worried about increasing payments and dietary costs leading to our seniors and seniors and other people in institutions getting worse in some way. I believe that the adjustment that is being prepared at the moment limits these concerns very much, and I believe that it will be as Jana Pastuchová said that all these adjustments that may be made, we are voting them, will lead us to have a better level of food and food for people from the institutions in terms of values, dietary values, nutritional values, and that is, of course, something that cannot be supported. With regard to the overall social services law, I am a lawyer and legislation, so maybe for two decades we wait to have the big, all-embracing social services law, where we compare the home care, the care in the institutions, we will be sure as caring for our loved ones, that we have something to lean on and we have enough support for home care, and if that's not possible, we have quality institutions here that will ensure individualised and best-quality care for our loved ones. Alpha omega of everything - this is both common education and social care, and health care - is money. And I firmly believe that the legislative work done by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in cooperation with the Social Committee and Members in recent years will be a good basis for all of us to come together, especially as citizens, in the forthcoming term of office. I sum up, therefore, that despite the concerns that we had, as I say, that home care should be adequately supported for caregivers at home and that, in order to avoid the price increases in food quotes that are pointless, in institutions, these two concerns are reduced by the changes that we will be voting in the comprehensive amendment and other amendments, so that we will support the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u7	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová in the debate. Before I give her my word, I apologise to Mrs Jana Černochová from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u8	Thank you. I would also like to read the legislative technical regulation in accordance with Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure for this House's press. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies: First of all, according to § 95 para. I propose the following legislative technical amendments to my amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, marked in summary by Amendment B: In point 2 of Section 34, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1 at the end of point (t), the dot is replaced by a comma and the following point (u) is added: "mental health centre'. In addition, paragraph 19 (79) is replaced by the following: "In the case of a mental health centre authorised to provide health services under the Health Services Act in the fields of health care for the mental health centre' is replaced by a comma at the end of point (i). [[11.30 hours]] As well as in paragraph 19 (79) above. (k) "at the centre of mental health, the decision on the authorisation to provide health services under the Health Services Act in the fields of health care for the mental health centre" shall be replaced by a comma at the end of point (j). I'll give you a brief explanation. Legally, the technical regulation responds to yesterday's press approval under number 992, the Act on Public Health Insurance, which includes this regulation as part of broader adaptations made in relation to mental health centres. Without the implementation of these proposed legislative technical changes, this parallel printing of 1143 would inadvertently abolish these modifications and the modification of mental health centres would subsequently be incomplete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. That was the last application for a third reading debate. I said, anybody else checking in? If not, I am ending the debate and asking for final words. He doesn't want the plaintiff, nor does the rapporteur. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. First of all, I've registered an application for a discussion on a procedure from a fellow Pirate party. Now, Mr rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u10	Thank you for the floor. The following procedure was proposed at the Social Committee at the 84th meeting: The motion to reject the bill was not filed. Furthermore, we will vote on legislative technical proposals as read in the general debate. And then we're going to vote on a complex proposal under letter B. We will then vote on the previous comprehensive proposal under letter A. Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment C1. If it is accepted, it shall be unvoting C2. If it is not adopted, we would vote on Amendment C2. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u11	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová, who has applied for a procedure. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u12	Thank you. All I have is a request to change the procedure to replace C2 with C1 so that the first vote is C2 because if it's accepted, then it's unvoting C1. It is simply a counterproposal in these two points to replace them with my two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u13	Okay. That's what we're declaring. I'm gonna sing. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will now vote on a change of procedure, as proposed by Mrs Olga Richterová. I have begun the vote by order number 72. Who's up for a change of procedure against the committee's proposal? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 72, 134 present for 55, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the procedure proposed by the Committee by the rapporteur in voting order number 73, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 73, present 141 Member, for 133, against no one. The procedure has been approved. Therefore, we will follow the steps of the procedure and I will ask the rapporteur to give his opinion, or the opinion of the committee and the representatives of the appellants, in order to also declare an opinion on the amendments. The first amendment or legislative technical regulation, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u14	The first will be legislative technical adaptations, as they were read in the general debate. Agreed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u15	The plaintiff? [[Agreed.]] I've begun voting order number 74. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 74, 144 for 143, against no one. Legally, the technical adjustment has been adopted. First draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u16	We will now vote on a comprehensive proposal under letter B. The Social Committee recommends it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u17	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I've started the vote on order number 75, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 75 of the 145 present for 143, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u18	Furthermore, we will vote on comprehensive Amendment A, which was the original one. The Social Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u19	The plaintiff's opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've begun the vote on order 76. Who's in? [[Objection from the plaintiff.]] Who's against it? I understand, I had it voted because when we voted on the letter "B," we said "A" was unvoted, or "76" was confusing. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u20	Furthermore, we will vote on Amendment C1. Committee on Social Policy without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u21	The plaintiff? [[Neutral.]] I've started the vote with order number 77. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 77, from 152 to 45, against no one. The proposal has not been adopted, so we will vote C2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u22	Because C1 wasn't adopted, we can vote on C2. Social Committee without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u23	The plaintiff? [[Disagree.]] I've started a 78-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 78, from 153 in favour of 48 in respect of 2. The motion was not accepted. To the vote, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'm just voting 77, I was in favour of, I'm in the middle of a "staying" thing. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u25	Okay, for the log. If I have good points, we voted on all the amendments, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u26	Yes. We voted on both legislative technical and all proposals, and now we should vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u27	Thank you. I shall make a motion for a resolution. My colleague Bojko is still reporting, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to see my colleague Navrkal, through you. My colleague Navrkal didn't have enough to run to his counter, and here he's going to say he wanted to vote in favour, so he's just lying. The number 77 vote didn't make it. It's already been voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-006-024.u29	Okay. The protocol will include both the position of my colleague Navrkal and his colleague Bojek. I guess that'll solve the situation that's happened here. Everyone has to deal with their own conscience. But since we have voted for all the amendments, whether they are adopted or rejected, I will make a motion for a resolution. [[Noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please! [[In an elevated voice.]] "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová to issue a law amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws, pursuant to House press 1143, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 79 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 79, out of 155 Members present for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the draftsman's representative, thank you to the rapporteur, and end with item number 24. The next item is the item number
