ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-008-013.u1	13. Proposal for nomination of verifiers of the Chamber of Deputies On this point, you received the electoral commission resolution number 9 of 8 November 2021. I ask the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to state the motion for a resolution, and I give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-008-013.u2	Once again, I thank you for the floor and inform you that on Monday, 8 November, at its second meeting, the Election Commission also discussed, outside the previous items, the proposals of the parliamentary clubs for the nomination of the verifiers of the Chamber of Deputies and adopted its resolution number 9, which was distributed to you on the bench. I've already filed that information. There are therefore not 14, but 12 according to the proposals of the parliamentary clubs. In any case, we are in conformity with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and with the number that we have now voted on, only two seats will be vacant. I will introduce the proposed verifiers in alphabetical order and no longer need to rise up and present myself: Stanislav Berkovec for the ANO movement, Oldřich Černý and Zdeněk Kettner for the SPD, Ondřej Kolář, Hayato Okamura and Tom Philipp for the coalition of SOLU, Barbora Urbanová and Milada Voborská for the Pirates and Mayors, Petr Vrána for the ANO movement, Renáta Zajíčková, Michal Zuna and Pavel Žáček for the coalition of SOLU. Under the Rules of Procedure, we should vote on this resolution publicly. So I ask you now, Madam President, to open up the debate and, unless a proposal is made to let these proposals put forward publicly to the 12 verifiers of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-008-013.u3	Thank you. So I am opening up a debate on this point that no one is reporting to. I am therefore ending the debate. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the nominated verifiers in this composition..' I think we heard him immediately now, so if no one objects to this procedure, I will not repeat the list of names again, and I will begin the vote immediately. I ask, who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In voting number 11 192 Members and Members were enrolled. 184 of them voted in favour, none of them. The motion was accepted. The motion for a resolution was therefore approved. [[22.10 hours]] In accordance with Article 54 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, We can now proceed to the designation of two verifiers for this meeting, i.e. the first meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I propose, as previously agreed, that we designate Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone who's signed up for this debate or had any other proposal. So, if everything is clear, I can begin the vote on this proposal. I am initiating it now, and I ask, who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 192 Members and Members voted in favour of 185 of them, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have just appointed Mr Stanislav Berkovec and Mr Pavel Žáček as verifiers for our constituent meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm done discussing this point. We can proceed to the next point, which is the point
