ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-006-004.u1	4. Proposal for a confirmation of the validity of the resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies adjusted its internal conditions and detailed rules of negotiations between 1996 and 2021 (2nd to 8th parliamentary term) /Departmental document 61/ At the beginning of this parliamentary term, on 12 October 2021, a working proposal was submitted to you for prior examination on the basis of each member's club. You have also received the House document 61, which contains a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies and an overview of all the resolutions by which the Chamber of Deputies adjusted its internal circumstances during the 2nd to 8th parliamentary term. That is why I am now asking the representatives of the various parliamentary clubs if they have any proposals? I don't see anyone claiming to be MPs. If that is the case, I am initiating a general debate and asking whether anyone is applying to this point in the general debate? I don't see any logged in, in which case I'm done with the debate. In the absence of any proposals, we will proceed to the debate in detail. I don't even see anyone coming in here. In that case, I would refer to the resolution sent to you. For the sake of order, I will read it because we are in a detailed debate: "The Chamber of Deputies states that the resolutions by which the Chamber of Deputies adjusted its internal conditions and detailed rules of negotiations between 1996 and 2021, the 2nd to 8th term of office, the authentic text of which is set out in the Annex, as amended, remain in force during the 9th term." Do I ask if anyone else is reporting in a detailed debate? I can't see, I'm ending a detailed debate. Given that only the proposal that was part of the resolution was added in the detailed debate, I would only have put it to a vote on it. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal, how was it read in a detailed debate? Please raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Thank you. It is vote number 27, 186 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 174, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been adopted. I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point, and that's
