ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u1	United debate on paragraphs 2 and 3 / House prints 1008 and 1009/ We dealt with these Houses of Press on 3 March 2021 at the 87th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. The Minister is already present at the rapporteur's table as draftsman, i.e. Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, and the rapporteur should be Mr Martin Kolovratník, who I also ask to take his place at the rapporteur's table. The other rapporteurs of other committees are then Mr Ivan Bartoš for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Dominik Feri for the Constitutional Legal Committee, and then also authorised representatives of minority committees, which are Mr Martin Kupka for the minority of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ondřej Polanský for the minority of the Economic Committee and Mr Marek Výborný for the minority of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am now again giving the opportunity to speak to the appellant, who, I see, is interested, or possibly to other rapporteurs and representatives of minorities. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u2	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today we meet again at the construction law, the last time we met over it on 3 March of this year, when the Chamber of Deputies suspended and adjourned until 30 March 2021. We are therefore following up on this meeting today and the House has interrupted the negotiations because it has designated the standard for which a comprehensive amendment to the Economic Committee will be tabled. In fact, it is a merger of several complex amendments, whether from Mr Kolovratník's pen, Mr Luzar, Mr Dolínek, Mr Kalous or Mr Fiala. This comprehensive amendment was therefore adopted by the Economic Committee and recommended by the House as a supporting press. With regard to the matters themselves within the framework of the comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee, the Economic Committee's proposal proposes a unified system of state building administrations at all levels, including the first-class building offices. I would very much like to rebut the myth here that it will cost a huge amount of money. We need to realize that today we have 1,300 separate offices, over 13,000 officials working in these offices. We're not really going to build any new construction offices somewhere in the green meadow, we're definitely going to use all the construction offices we have. I myself have had many discussions with the mayors, because even the clean state construction administration, which will be from the level of the region, will have a territorial workplace, and preferably where the construction authorities are today. This means that we are actually negotiating with the mayors that they will rent us these premises as state administration. And it has to be said that the construction process is now carried over, that is, it is the performance of the state administration in the delegation, and already today the state is paying for all the premises, for the civil servants, for the archives where the construction authorities are operating today. So, of course, these four billion, which the state is paying today, we will also pay for the future, so that the territorial workplaces remain where they are best. [[9.20 hours]] As far as the next point is concerned, there is spatial planning. The proposal by the Economic Committee shall maintain the current model for the exercise of territorial planning, with the aim of strengthening the position of local authorities. However, it should be stressed that, in particular, from the instigation of large cities, the procurement of land-use planning documentation is also prepared as part of a separate remit. It is part of the so-called four urban artifacts, we have been very serious about this and I think that an amendment is being prepared, which really puts this spatial planning within a separate remit from the smallest community to the largest city. In the field of construction rules, the new building law proposes a comprehensive procedural regulation for the approval of buildings. The result of the proposed amendments is one procedure conducted by one authority in which the authorities concerned will be integrated as far as possible. The construction permit process has fixed deadlines. For all non-integrated authorities concerned, the fiction of consent will apply, which will take place after the expiry of the period for the issue of an opinion or binding opinion. In the field of building law, the proposal envisages a comprehensive adjustment of construction requirements in one implementing legislation, but taking into account the specific territorial requirements of large settlements. The draft law introduces for the capital city of Prague, the statutory city of Brno and the statutory city of Ostrava the right to issue implementing regulations governing, by way of derogation, certain requirements for construction, so-called urban construction regulations. In the area of the amendment law, which was also discussed on committees, we discussed together with the construction law on 3 March, when the Chamber of Deputies and the amendment law broke and adjourned until 30 March. In particular, Mr Kolovratník's amendments and, of course, other amendments to the various laws contained in the amendment law were dealt with in the framework of the amendments. The amendments to the amendment laws concerned, for example, the integration of decisions on water management into the construction process, the extension of the possibility for advertising equipment to be placed, the abolition of the link between sanitary limits or the introduction of a building charge or an adjustment in the administrative order of law, namely in the procedure for repealing measures of a general nature. This proposal contradicts the compromise agreement and regulation of the Legislative Council of the Government and the agreement with the Supreme Administrative Court. At the same time, we must state that, after careful impact assessment, the Ministry of Justice also clearly takes a negative position instead of the original neutral subject. So let me conclude by thanking all those who have contributed in any way to the preparation of the Government's proposal or the comprehensive amendment. I really appreciate the efforts of all those involved in the preparation of the new construction law. It is clear that not all proposals I can have a positive opinion, on the other hand I see this as a very balanced compromise and I look forward to a very factual and constructive debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u3	Thank you. I remind you that once again there is the opportunity to speak, those who have rapporteurs or representatives of minorities, but if no one reports, I am now opening up a debate, a suspended, merged general, in which I have some priority rights and some applications. I have here the priority right of President Bartoš and Mr Kupka, I presume, but Mrs Maříková was registered last time, with whom we are also not sure if she also exercised the right of priority. However, since I do not see Mrs Maříková in the room, I will invite President Bartoš and then move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, Mr President. At this point, I would just like to talk briefly about the importance of digitalisation as a tool to make the building process more efficient. Madam Secretary nods, we certainly agree in this section that digitalisation is important, but although this law in some way builds on our original digitalisation efforts, which we, as Members of the Government, have materialized in the law on digital technical maps, suddenly with the government of the proposed law, or now that quasi-government proposal by Mr Kolovratník, takes digitalisation as something that might not actually work in the acceleration of the building process. And I'm saying that it's the foundation, the acceleration of the building process, its efficiency, and the final savings. For decades in public space, there's been such a saying that they're supposed to circulate data, not people. I agree with this saying, it is the principle of digitization, it is the principle that when you deal with the office today and the journey is going to speed up, you use your mobile phone, you get these things filled in, send a parking extension application form, for example, and it will get longer. I would like this principle, which we know from a number of services, to be transferred to the construction process in the Czech Republic. But what does the proposal that we are discussing in the House bring? He may partly address the question that people shouldn't orbit the authorities, but how does he handle it? He takes officials from different areas, and they basically move -- and it's not virtual, but for one office where everyone's gonna be sitting in a house, probably in their office, and they're gonna meet up for a meeting this afternoon, and they're gonna figure this thing out. This is not a modern effective principle. The principle that they have to circulate data, and not people, is as follows. You're a citizen who's building a building, your own, or you're a builder or developer. You will prepare the project, upload it into the system or assist it into the system, create the only documentation that is stored in one place, and all the others who work with the documentation - you no longer need to be involved as a builder or as a citizen - so remote access they will look at it, put in the virtual stamp that we are talking about, whether they will be at the moment, these virtual stamps, 10 or 15 or any other number, that is not so relevant in the process, and at the end, when everything can run at once and in parallel, these contradictions will be settled, at that moment the project is approved and we can move on. This is the principle of digitization, that is, the integration of the processes that we are talking about in the 21st century, when we had the opportunity - and there was also Minister Dostálová with another expedition - to see how the construction process works in a modern society in the Nordic countries, where an official sits in an office where there is no single paper, has a big monitor and says: Today I have a lot of work to do, today I have 34 construction procedures to solve today. And he's smiling because he's got this construction process coming up on his screen, he's just checking the organs concerned, clicking when the time or time is up, clicking and reminding by email, and the process is running, it's transparent, it's cheap, it's efficient, we're not moving anywhere, we're not hiring any new officials, it works in the current system. This was the modern vision that we adopted as a group of Members in the Group under the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which deals with the construction process, and on this procedural integration we have built our comprehensive amendment, which the House rejected, which we will nevertheless present today as a comprehensive amendment to Mr Kolovratník's proposal, but the partial part concerning the planning documentation relating to the core of the building process, we will also put forward as amendments, because each part is applicable separately and can be used. Of course, we would like to be happy if our countries, where money will be needed and we are already fundamentally deficited, did not embark on a wild building agency project where only those transformation costs are estimated to be tens of billions of crowns with uncertain results, but we went the modern way, we went the digital way. Digitisation also means not only lower costs of implementation, but saves time and money in the finals. It saves time for people who don't need to get stamps, who can make it out of the comfort of a home that doesn't have to travel anywhere, saves the time of the state on funds to a high degree. [[9.30 hours]] When we look at the global case, and Estonia is - the Prime Minister likes to brag about meeting someone from Estonia - Estonia digitized the government as a whole. At that point, it had its costs, and perhaps even the budget at that time was deficit in Estonia, but they succeeded. In the following period they saved on operation, on expenditure of the States 3 % of gross domestic product. That would be a little over 100 billion expenses in the Czech Republic. The construction process isn't the whole digitization, but we've done a lot of things since the registry, through the bank identity approved by this House in the past year. And all of this together with the construction process can save time and save money in the finals. I would therefore ask you to support the main proposal, which does not really go the way of taking authority from self-government and moving officials, but goes the way of digital. I think that's the basis, that's the road for the 21st century. Of course, I would also like to ask you to support the other amendments that will be made today, whether from the group of Members who have dealt with the construction law, as well as from the pirát on whose behalf I am speaking here. On my behalf, I would like to draw attention to the two amendments that will be read. One petitioner is a group of Members through me, which concerns the electronic building journal. The second will then be submitted by Mr Polanský for the pirát. In previous negotiations in legislation, we have pushed through the electronic building diary as a tool that should manage the construction, which should be available for checks, where the builder or realizer should write down the construction procedures and allow control. As far as public funds are concerned, of course, they are buildings that build the municipality, the state, it is absolutely desirable from the point of view of the unsuitability of selected materials and later complaints, but also the control of the course of the project. We would also like to take the question of the electronic building diary as a voluntary tool in the new building law as an opportunity to determine the parameters that such a building diary should have - and I believe that later a colleague of Polanský will also speak of it - and, of course, under contracts of a greater extent, where construction works go out of public means, consider it an obligation. I'd like to conclude my first performance with this. Of course, I will continue to apply to my proposals in a detailed debate, and I will closely monitor where the debate will develop today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u5	Thank you, and Mr Kupka is next in line - with the club's position, I presume. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u6	Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We have put together several amendments along with other clubs and other colleagues, but most importantly: We are fighting to make the construction process in the Czech Republic really faster and simpler, but in order not to go the way, which, in the end, although many people are performing very differently, did not constitute a plug-in of construction, a plug-in of all building permits. Because the creation of a mega-building office means one thing - whoever says what he wants - but it means the real transfer of more than 13,000 officials to a newly built building office. Nowhere in the world has it happened that building a new office will solve the serious problems that the country has, and the Czech Republic really has a serious problem within the extended time limits of the construction process. That is why we have embarked on a solution that is intended primarily to balance individual interests, acceleration of individual processes, electronization, as mentioned above, and at the same time to build on tried good models, as it already works with the current law in many countries, and many Czech offices. It sounded from the Minister's mouth, how it is actually a balanced model, how it is a balanced approach. And the fact that we're here for an emergency meeting makes it so clear that, on the contrary, it has been the head since the beginning of the force position and the push of that law. We've been through this before. As well as in 2017, the ministry led by the ANO movement pushed through the amendment of the law and said how great it would all be, how great everything would run. The result? The construction proceedings in the Czech Republic have been extended! Those are the facts. Where do we know that now that the Ministry is saying again how great it will go, how we will solve all the problems in the building process, that the opposite will not happen, as was the case in 2017, 2018. We're all taught to be based on what it looked like and what experience is. Well, unfortunately, the experience here is obvious. And instead of rationalizing where there are real problems and focusing on solutions, we fell in love here, not us, but the current coalition for the construction law, YES, SPD and communists, fell in love with creating a new bureaucratic apparatus. The bureaucratic apparatus, which will first solve all its internal rules, buy cars, provide spaces, because it is clear that in all cities as it is now, it will simply not be possible to secure premises for the new mega-construction office, just maybe the current councillors' leadership will not allow it, because they themselves have great struggles with lack of space. And if the state decides to build something like that, of course it will have to carry it on its shoulders. And it was the Ministry of the Interior, which clearly calculated that if the state had to secure such premises, it would have to cost up to CZK 30 billion, with some sober estimate of CZK 24 billion. Madam Secretary says she's already spoken to a bunch of mayors who welcomed it. I do not rule that out, but it is quite obvious, and it speaks of both the position of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities, the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, that this is not the prevailing opinion among the key partners, but rather that the state will cause itself a lot of trouble and, as a result, delay services from the people themselves. It was not so long ago that the key argument, the key reason for public administration reform, was that we had to bring more people closer to the authorities, and instead of centralising, focus on making key processes really close to individual actors as close as possible to individual builders. The construction of the central building office goes in exactly the opposite direction and it also shows that if the reduction of the construction offices occurs, we agree that it makes no sense in the Czech Republic to hold the so-called single-headed construction offices. And in our proposal, we even respect the key with which the Ministry of Regional Development has come up so that the authorities that are supposed to continue to function meet three important criteria - just fill one of them: the size of the administrative district, the number of officials themselves, and, above all, the number of submissions that the office has to deal with. These are the substantive and fundamental criteria for maintaining this office, but the version with which the government and the group of Members led by Mr Kolovratník at the moment offer absolutely no guarantee that the dedicated workplaces will remain close to people. It is simply clear that for many steps, for many details closeness, the physical presence of an official is necessary, especially for small builders who do not have complex apparatuses and large design offices. Therefore, if our state is to function really well, it must go both ways. Bringing high-quality electronisation to the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum with significant support from the MMR has succeeded, and this will apply even when the new building law would not be adopted. But at the same time, we must remember that there will always be some people in society who will prefer immediate contact with officials for various reasons. Therefore, it is important that the new form of the construction law also guarantees that the network of construction offices will not completely fall apart. [[9.40 hours]] What does the officials themselves say? An opinion poll was conducted, organized by the Association of Local Authorities and also by the relevant trade unions, and asked more than 1,200 officials at current construction offices whether they were willing to go into the regime of the Civil Service Act to a new mega-construction office. Answer? Only 40 percent of them would accept such an offer. The remaining 60 percent showed that they would either retire or stay in the city or the village. And the response of a number of mayors, given that they lack investment reporters, that they lack people who know the construction law well, would undoubtedly take it so that the best of the construction offices would try to get on with their work in the city. And what would be left of the state? Well, it certainly wouldn't be a better-equipped staff office, that's simple math. The moment you don't even have enough high-quality officials right now, the moment you tear them apart, you divide those authorities and build a new one, you don't solve the problem, but you actually clearly deepen it. There's no answer to that. At the same time, you interrupt expert teams in individual trade unions dedicated specifically to the environment, roads and the like. So the way from improving quality and focusing on material solutions to problems - it's just a political step that says: We're going to build a new office, head of head. And the impact on the state budget in the order of tens of billions of crowns, the result, and this is the most serious, not only uncertain but extremely risky. These are all the reasons why we introduced a proposal that we are based on how they do it in Pilsen, as they do in Karvina, as they do in dozens of Czech construction offices, where they have really managed to speed things up significantly with the current law, because those officials were able to bring them to one table. The instrument we use, coordinated negotiations, precisely in a situation where it turns out that individual government bodies, for example, have serious reservations about the proposal, so at the time of the conflict, the building office can convene the relevant negotiations and address individual public interests, so that the builder can find a way out, adjust the conditions and modify the project so that it can function. And this is the most important and it is shown by examples of countries where they are building well and where they are also building quickly, that the solution is not to overwhelm something, that, despite your expert opinion, you simply decide something, but that you are looking for a way to settle conditions and to satisfy specific reservations. And here we find ourselves in a situation where we all know it well, problematic and those projects go where the conflict appears, where the conservationists or the environment have reservations, material reasons for why the project should be adapted and it should make significant changes. [[are:]] At that very moment, common sense is in charge, at one table with an investor with a city representative and with the authorities concerned to discuss how to adjust the project so that it meets individual demands and meets public interests. This is the key road. At a time when someone on strength, like the negotiation of this entire law, will decide, it will not do any good, even it will, of course, pose a number of serious risks. At the moment when the decision really suppresses the interests of important groups of citizens or public interests in the field of conservation care or elsewhere, there is, of course, a threat of subsequent litigation, in which the problem will only be more pronounced and multiplied, or even enhanced, and the outcome for the Czech Republic will be significantly worse for the development of construction and business. That is why we have prepared a proposal that does not involve institutional integration, but brings processes together, and on the individual existing building offices it will be possible to involve the environmental expert in one table, water protection, waste management, join the memorial to the debate on what needs to be changed in the project, and in this way deal with key points. To zoom in on the process we're counting on, I'm going to try to point out a concrete example of a concrete construction. You need to build an apartment building, that's a theme that now moves public discussion, because we're supposed to build apartments. Even if you are a small developer, you can come to the office in our building law model and you can submit a request, submit it electronically, upload the entire documentation to the project documentation data repository, and at that time your request will be displayed to all the authorities concerned and our system expects that it is possible to contact the network manager in this way, in the first step. At the time when no problem occurs, no collision occurs, so within 30 days the construction office may proceed further and issue a building permit, which with all time periods can be obtained by the builder within 60 days from the moment he asked. This is, of course, the ideal case, the easiest way possible. However, the solution may get complicated somewhere along the way, that conflicting views of the institutions concerned may arise. At that point, the construction office is calling the conciliation procedure, a coordinated meeting, where the building office, the representative of the self-government and, of course, the construction worker, represented by, for example, the designer and representatives of the trade unions that saw the conflict, is meeting with protected public interests. And the result on which they agree will be reflected into the form of the project itself and then the construction office logically starts the construction proceedings itself, and again, if agreement is found, it is possible to issue a building permit within a period of 90 days. I have noted the reservations of the Minister and of the Ministry that there are no strict deadlines in this case. Well, it's not true, because our proposal envisages exactly the same deadlines, and only in a very small way it transforms the original design, which determines 30 days for basic buildings, for more complex 60 days. No change. And at the moment when, for example, the construction office fails to reach that deadline, the whole document goes to the regional authority's decision, and that is because we share the same principles in this regard, based on the ban on ping-pong decides, it does not return it, but it has to decide on the building permit itself. This is an important step and a significant improvement in order to build faster in the Czech Republic. These are the fundamental principles of the amendment, the key features. At the same time, the current appeal from the first instance to the second instance remains, when it is different authorities. To be sure, the builder will look at his case with another eye and judge justly whether anyone has misplaced it is, of course, much better guaranteed than at the moment when the appeal is decided by the same hierarchy-controlled institution at the level of the state administration, because it will be one office, one head, the highest construction officer appointed by the government. This model, of course, is based on what I said about how the current functional construction offices work where they put it together, because the real key in the case of collision buildings is to look for a way out. We also know, as I mentioned, if there are problems that are then reflected in those long deadlines and end the construction proceedings after 10 years, so it is exactly where the contradictions were, the problems could not be resolved. [[9.50 hours]] Do you feel that, at the moment when the disputed buildings, where there is a real conflict, the building office will somehow decide from the table that this will improve the situation, thus satisfying those who will protect and protect, for example, public interests in the environment or in the area of conservation? Undoubtedly not. But that's not the interest of the state, for two reasons. On the one hand, the fact that public interests exist cannot be called into question. Yes, they need to be enforced and drawn in an appropriate manner. But on the other hand, and this is equally important, it is necessary to ensure that these public interests are reflected in a good project. If this does not happen, a simple decision from a position of strength will not solve the problems in principle, but will only cover so as to raise even more serious problems in the event of litigation, with which either a group of citizens or even a competitor in a competitive environment may eventually come up. These are the main reasons why we are embarking on a path that does not mean any serious burden on the Czech Republic's budget, so it does not draw more money out of people's pockets and, at the same time, it really builds on examples of good practice and focuses on where problems arise, following an analysis that the Ministry cannot question, because it is simply true that buildings that do not contain collisions also do not pose a serious problem in the Czech Republic in terms of extended deadlines. We are interested in keeping the building process closer to people, in order to work even in terms of the possibility of a call, when the time limits are extended or when there are suspicious interests involved. I don't want to elaborate on what's happening when you build a bureaucratic structure, who actually will rule it, and what risks are there. We have repeatedly named the centralized authorities as having a logically greater tendency and greater corruption risk than the authorities that are decentralised, when it is possible to get changes and power rights when you know that there is a secretary you meet on the street, and you can apply your demands and your complaints. I believe that, at least in these specific cases, the fundamental contours of our joint amendment have been presented here, which says: Let us change the construction law, but in a way that does not burden the Czech Republic with unnecessary costs. Let's change it by maintaining the proximity of the authorities to the people. Let's change it so that it works on the principle of modern and functional electronization. Let's change it by being able to deal with public interests, not rolling them. Let us address it in such a way that it will not win, as we have unfortunately witnessed in the discussion, the position of strength, but will really win the effort to deal with problems in the field of building proceedings. Colleagues will then present further amendments. The ones I will read in a detailed debate will be two. Firstly, it will be a partial amendment which focuses on the described institutionalisation, or the preservation of the current mixed model of public administration, current functioning, but improvement of processes, and the removal of the idea of a functional mega-building office that will not work. At the same time, I will also read the comprehensive amendment that governs the whole of the carrier, the basic amendment that has been brought by Mr Kolovratník, Mr Kolovratník, Mr Kolovratník, and a group of Members, by the Minister, and which means that the building administration should be set aside in this respect in the form of a clean administration. Thank you very much for your attention. I will, of course, be involved in the discussion, because we are interested in making all the essential arguments in this second reading as well as in the third reading. It is not a good thing that such a serious change is progressing in an unconventional way that we have actually reached an adjustment that could not have gone through the standard legislative process. Of course, an intervention in the form of a comprehensive amendment, which returns the concept of the substantive intention of the law of separate construction administration, would have deserved all the steps of the standard legislative procedure from the outset, unfortunately it did not come to that. It must, to some extent, replace the debate that we will have at second and third reading. However, I stress once again that interest for the Czech Republic is important, it is essential - to improve the processes of building management so that the development of the construction industry can strengthen further economic development of the Czech Republic and correct the key disability we have in transport infrastructure, which we also have in the area of housing and accessible housing. Those are the key reasons. If a debate about the construction law seems abstract to anyone, what will be approved or not approved in the coming months will directly affect whether there will be available apartments on the market, if key transport arteries can be built more quickly, if even small builders will be able to implement their plans and their visions for their families without unnecessary nerves and orbiting authorities. This is the real result of a good construction law. And if we rely on dysfunctional models as it was in 2017, 2018, there's only more disillusionment. It threatens to come back to Prime Minister Černomyrdin's words: We thought well, but it turned out as always. And I really wouldn't like it in this case, because if we really have an example here, and the arguments were the same, then the Minister of Regional Development called everyone to account, said how the processes would accelerate, and the opposite happened. Completely proven the opposite happened in the global. Now, where's the certainty that it won't be the exact same pattern? There is no guarantee that this is a complete reconstruction of the construction law. The guarantee is an honest analysis of where the shoe really pushes us, and a solution to the problem in a place that hurts us, where it really hurts us. But that's not what's happening in this case. The change is flat without sensitivity to the most serious problems and without focus on where the real problem occurs to the greatest extent. That is why we are calling for us to return from the force decision to focus on material problems, the most serious complications in the process, so that we can resolve this where there is an extension of the deadlines where conflicts arise. I believe that there will still be room for practical cases to show where the Ministry's proposal misses the effect and where the necessary adjustments really need to be adopted in the final text. Thank you very much for your attention and I very much hope that this discussion with factual arguments will eventually lead the Ministry to change its position - I would very much like it - and accept the work of a number of Members, mayors, people who have experience with the state administration and analyse what needs to be done to improve the building process. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u7	Thank you. I'm going to meet the House of Pardons. Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman apologizes to us today for health reasons and Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologizes for work reasons. Mr Kolovratník has now volunteered. I'm asking if it's a priority right or a factual point. With priority rights. In that case, I have here a factual remark from Mr Čižinský, who will come first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'd like to thank my colleague Kupek, the foreman. He asked the very right question, where is the certainty? I would perhaps ask the Minister where there is some decent probability, because there is a clear belief from the previous discussion that it is now the worst that it can be, and it cannot be worse, which means we can do anything and it will be better. But I'm sure that's a very bad assumption. If we wanted to have at least a decent probability, then the text that is preferred should really be sent to a commentary procedure, reminded by all ministries, and then at least some decent probability that it will end well. Many years ago, a law on executions came into existence in a similar way. Until now, we haven't been able to dig our way out of it. Now we're risking the exact same thing, and we're risking more than ten years before there's any chance of getting out of a situation that's gonna get worse here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u9	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, that was the factual point of my colleague Čižinský, now with the priority right of the rapporteur, Mr Kolovratník, Mr Polanský will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u10	Thank you so much for the floor. Good morning, colleagues. I will take advantage of the opportunity for the rapporteur to sign up quickly and respond and take it from the back, to my colleague Čižinský. But it did happen, the interdepartmental commentary. I will remind you, and now I will return minus a year and a bit, Madam Secretary will make me more precise, that is, sometime by the winter of 2020, when there was an agreement or a political decision to finally make the government proposal in the form of, say, a hybrid form or a combination, but the original one that we actually returned to by the comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee, that is, the pure building administration, that was the original proposal that was made, passed through the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, was settled, and even the Government Legislative Council initially gave a positive opinion on it, but I am returning more than a year ago. That's a quick reaction to that. And perhaps I will add one more piece of information, as I see it as rapporteur - the events of recent weeks, March and winter. I told you this this morning at a press conference and I am happy to tell you here that I want to thank you, colleagues from the opposition, for this and I am not at all hurtful, but, on the contrary, positively that at the end of last year we agreed on a period of 100 days between first and second reading, now that we agreed at the beginning of March, it is almost a month, for a relatively long interruption of second reading, because we had enough time for both parties to prepare further amendments. At this point in the press, 1008, I just counted it a little while ago, maybe there's gonna be some more, it's 71 and some 50, 55 in the press, 1009. Of course, we are not now able to respond to those that appeared in the system this morning or last night, but those that appear there during March, so we are, and now please forgive me the expression, it is simplification, we are really dedicated to the micro-operative regime of the very inter-department, where we discuss each and every one of our and your amendments on a day-to-day basis, and fairly widely with colleagues from the Ministry of Local Development, as well as with all the other departments concerned, with the environment, with the interior, industry and transport. And I, for example, as rapporteur on a small expert team, in a working group, have representatives of the Legislative Council of the Government, Dr Korbel, as well as a representative of the Supreme Administrative Court, Dr Vomáčka, and with them we look at each and every proposal and give ourselves an opinion on it. So this also answers a little bit to Martin Kupka. I just don't think we're doing it here or pushing it, the government coalition, some kind of force that's rushing, squatting, I said it a while ago, the deadlines were very long both in winter and at this point, make an opinion and discuss each of these proposals. I took it from behind, and now a quick response to President Bartoš, the digitization. It was said to the Minister at the beginning, this is a matter that we agree on. And, yeah, the elements are there, they appear in both your proposals and the government's or the economic committee's. And this is something that I don't think we need to discuss anymore. The electronic diary - I believe I even co-signed the pirát for the first transport proposal - we support this. But let me remind you that methods like BIM, programming in a digital environment, are practically starting to become reality, it will even be mandatory in this great construction. When we were making an amendment to the Line Act here, the Fourteenth, we introduced the National Geoportal of Urban Planning into that law. This is all digital. For example, in one of the amendments here at second reading, we are giving precisely to designers, those who make up territorial plans, the obligation to surrender them in a uniform standard, or vice versa, we say, if they do not surrender, it will be treated as an offence. So all these steps there are projected, made, and we definitely agree on them, but what I want to say is what the point of this performance is: really, my friends, it's not self-supporting, and this is a moment that we unfortunately disagree on, but it needs to be said. We simply believe that only digitalization, only the digitalisation of these processes, will not help the system and will not ensure that the deadlines are enforceable and that we will be able to do all of this as we want. And now, excuse me, as they say, I'm getting a reaction to Martin Kupka's performance through the ass bridge. I don't want to use the words that we fell in love with one system - I could put it back that opposition colleagues fell in love with another. In short, one of the currents here says: Let's do evolution, not revolution, we say: Unfortunately, there have been many evolutionary experiments, we have to have political courage and try the so-called revolution, do it all over again, and digitalization must be part of all of this, because then you will be able to unify methodical procedures, you will have the possibility of mutual representativeness, but not in the sense that officials will move from somewhere, but organizationally inside a single institution will reevaluate or redistribute work. I will say here that one of the amendments that I tabled last night along with the reconstruction of the state has strong for transparent elements. So I believe that even if there is no need for consensus on the outcome as a whole, so that some opposition colleagues will find themselves in the various amendments, and here is the strongly transparent element that says that the institution, the highest construction power, including the regional authorities, will have a publicly available labor log or a work plan, where it will be controlled through electronic remote access to see where the case is assigned to whom the official is working on it and how far away it is so that they cannot move somewhere purposefully, that it will be an element on which we will certainly find maximum compliance. And the last quick reaction. It was said that the Union of Towns and Municipalities has resistance from the authorities that there is resistance. But, please, let's be correct in this debate. It is not entirely true, it is not the position of the SMOČR here in this unified, the Chamber of Statutory Cities simply sees it differently than the majority representatives of the Union of Cities and Municipalities and has also issued some other opposing position in quotation marks. And here again, let me remind you of the four city artifacts discussed, the demands of the big cities, by means of amendments to the system, we have incorporated the complex amendment into that. As far as the proposal for urban building regulations for large cities is concerned, from my point of view, what I, as a city representative in Pardubice, see as crucial - and I will fight for it - and I see it as a really big pillar of the other adjustments that are now being made during that long period is an exact determination of the right of spatial planning in its entirety, both for municipalities, for the smallest ones, and for cities, up to the largest statutory ones, as well as for the regions. And even this I think is an element that, when I think of one of the first speeches of the Minister, she used the sentence "territory plans and the creation of her own territory, let the municipalities say and decide what they want, what they want, and when they want it, let's leave it to them, and then let's leave it to them, the technical process of issuing the permit, let's keep the integrated permit separated like it's cut off," and that's what we're doing practically 100 percent of the amendment. And now it's the last sentence from me. In the debate at the beginning of March, I also set an example from my Pardubice Region from Mr. Mayor Brýdl of Litomyšl, who described how you In fact, Litomyšl ensures a little bit of bending of practice in individual building procedures on its territory that it has historically purchased strips of various land and parts of the village to always be a neighbour, the participant, so I can say here too, it is actually the fourth of those urban artiles which complements the procedural position of the municipalities as the body concerned in the construction order. This is what he served - if he has already given it, I think so - Petr Dolínek, and so it is also prepared for us to submit to discussion at this time. And I will be an optimist in the sense that this could eventually be positively agreed by the House. [[10.10 hours]] So I believe that even on the basic... On that world view between, as I said, evolution, leaving the two-track, and the improvement, and the radical change, I don't think we're gonna agree on that. But I will be optimistic, and I beg for a substantive debate on both sides, that we will certainly find great penetrations in a number of other partial amendments. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. He raised two factual points, first Mr Marek Výborný, then Ivan Bartoš. Polanský's colleague is still standing by. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm gonna save it for the show afterwards, but if my colleague here is talking about how the sun is all watered and amazing, and at the beginning he says - and I don't want to suspect him at all, because as rapporteur, he doesn't know the history... Mr colleague, through the Vice-President, you know very well what we are discussing today, what version and what has been passed through the legislative process and the Legislative Council of the Government. The result was completely different. And at this point, we have returned to the very beginning of the process, which was mostly rejected by those participants. So don't say it's different here, you know it, and it's a de facto violation of the agreements that were settled during the process. Yes, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister had to retreat in many ways to settle comments on the Government's Legislative Council, but then what happened? Some proposal was discussed, which was sent here in the hybrid model, but then the Ministry decided to go through the quasi-government amendment of my colleague Kolovratník - that is exactly what it is, it must be said very openly and clearly - and bypass all those agreements that were crucial for at least an elementary consensus to exist here. At least an elementary match! So I think this is the big double-cross that was here. And unfortunately, this is also reflected in negative opinions, perhaps a substantial part of the Union of Towns and Municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, then with the right of priority, Minister Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u14	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer to the previous speaker in a factual remark, Mr Marek the Výborný. It sounded here from Mr. Kolovratník - and maybe people don't understand what quasi-government is, so let's just say: the Ministry came up with an externally written proposal that introduced one building office, a huge, central one, was significantly involved by representatives of the developers' party, the other resorts took a negative stand. The Ministry of the Interior issued an analysis that talked about jamming the building process for the period of the year, costs worth maybe hundreds of billions, transformations, it's a fairly thick analysis of the Ministry of the Interior. Then, in an emergency, we moved on for a year to negotiate a compromise into the version of the hybrid proposal that came here to the House, in an emergency situation for an emergency meeting, and then Mr Kolovratník, Mr Kolovratník, took the original proposal and actually said: This is the amendment that is being settled. We're looking at him now. I would just like to say that the number of meetings and meetings and press conferences does not prove anything about the quality of the work that has been done does not say anything about whether the opinions of experts other than the government group have been heard. I can say they weren't. We tried to compromise, we took the good from the proposal of Minister Klára Dostálová, of which hybrid, although we did not agree with the principle, we built an alternative on it, which has procedural integration, does not create an office. We're here now, discussing the government's original proposal, you submitted it. Let's call things real names. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Minister Dostálová. Do you, Madam Secretary, want a factual remark? [[Yes.]] Enough, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u16	Only with a point of fact. I just, gentlemen, I would really like to set this straight. We're being blamed for being untraditional in some way. We went with the law's purpose. Even the substantive intention of the law passed by the Legislative Council of the Government, passed by the government, there are consenting opinions of all ministries, it is not true that there are dissenting opinions, everyone had a positive opinion. And the substantive intention of the law was to clean up the state construction administration. So it's not true that it didn't go through interdepartmental commentary. Then, in the wording of the material intention, we put the law in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure. In January, a compromise agreement was agreed with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and the law reached the hybrid, and the hybrid, that is, with the concession of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, was approved by the government. Subsequently, the economic committee basically returned to the factual purpose of the law. So I just really want to say, it's not true that there are disagreements between the resorts. There's always been the approval of the resorts, and it's been properly discussed with all of them. And it's not true that even the pure civil engineering administration didn't go through inter-ministerial commentary proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u17	Thank you, Minister Dostálová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Čižinský's point of order now. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u18	Thank you. I actually appreciate what was said here from Mr Kolovratník's mouth that this is not an evolution, but a revolution. Let's really say if the construction law is what's supposed to be under the revolution. And then there were words of courage. It is an experiment that is presented here, but unfortunately what can be damaged is the environment, security, conservation care, trust of people in the state, even at stake if a large part of the building process does not move very quickly to the courts, it does not overwhelm the courts and it does not extend much further. And if we have these risks, then we shouldn't be making revolutions, but we really should be doing a very well discussed evolution. The centralization bet is a bad bet, today we see it every hour, every minute in the corona crisis we see that centralization works worse than decentralization. If we take vaccinations, vaccination works because it's decentralized, and because of the fact that the regions, the cities, are all trying to get vaccinated. If it was centrally organized, it would work much worse. So that centralization bet is a bet on the wrong horse, it's a horse bet that runs in a completely opposite direction than the target.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u19	Thank you. Now with a point of fact, Mr Marek Výborný and then I register the application of the Minister of Culture. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When there are these words about evolution and revolution, I want to say that it is neither evolution nor revolution, but rather the breakdown, decomposition of a run-in, functioning, twenty years of a model of the combined public administration, and that is unfortunately what will be the result of pushing the version that is being discussed here today, which is not the original version of the government that has been passed through the commentary procedure, but it is the version of Mr Kolovratník, who, in principle, has returned to the very beginning to the interests of the groups mentioned here by Mr Bartoš. This needs to be made absolutely clear. Among other things, the result will be the actual breakdown of the mixed model of public administration, which is also needed to know, and it will affect all citizens. By the way, there is a threat - and we must also say this very openly, the Minister will not say it, so I say it - that there is a risk that for two years, perhaps longer, construction procedures in the Czech Republic will be completely shut down, because notabene in the time of the covido will have to focus on building new offices, processes and so on. It is indeed a real threat to the construction process in our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u21	Thank you for keeping time. Now, then, Mr Kalous, with a point of fact. He is still a registered colleague of Polanský and before him with priority right the Minister of Culture. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment, by your means, on what has been said here by Mr Výborný. The Government's Legislative Council supported the full administration, that's just a fact. On the contrary, it stated that the hybrid model was pointless. And here I quote the comment of the Supreme Administrative Court from this commentary procedure. So I quote: 'We consider it necessary to draw attention to the fact that this change' meant the integration of decision-making, 'is only feasible in the system of a unified system of building offices as administrative offices, direct executors of the state administration. On the contrary, it is completely impossible to perform the current model of performance of the construction administration and related agendas at municipal and regional offices." I think it's very important that this is heard here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u23	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Čižinský, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u24	Thank you, only in response to the previous speaker. But I'm not gonna read the whole e-mail here, that would keep us here, but the Government Legislative Council made it clear that there was supposed to be a repeated commentary procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u25	With a factual remark, Minister Dostálová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u26	I am sorry that we are outgunning ourselves here, but that is also not entirely true, my colleague, because the Government's Legislative Council itself acknowledged that repeated inter-ministerial commentary proceedings would lead nowhere, because it is a clash of two universes, and it actually understood the proposal that we had as a compromise, as a political consensus. This means that the Government's Legislative Council itself has said that it understands that repeated inter-ministerial commentary proceedings will lead nowhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u27	A colleague of Čižinský yet another factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u28	Thank you. Speaking of which, it wasn't the Government's Legislative Council that said it, but only the opinion of the Prime Minister of the Legislative Council, which is also a little different. I understand that maybe people aren't supposed to know their way around it, but since we're having a good time, we're supposed to be having a good time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u29	Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Culture, and Mr. šindelář is ready. My colleague Polanský, if I understand correctly, checked out. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u30	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. If you'll allow me, I'd like to remind myself of the essentials. I may have said them here before, but hopefully I'll be forgiven if I sum them up again and remind them. I am the one who traditionally considers the bill of construction to be one of the most difficult moments and standards in the Chamber of Deputies, and during the first reading I said here that it is never easy to discuss the construction law. The Ministry of Culture is one of those who will, of course, be influenced in a rather fundamental way by the impact of new legislation, that is clear. And actually, if I had to remind you again what we're up to. This is how we need to monitor that, in a new form of building law, protection of the development of individual interests and, on the other hand, protection of public interests are maintained in a certain balance. So that's actually our position, and that's what we're trying to do here. Public interest is what we should agree on, and so if we are making changes, then that should also be protected fundamentally, and we should find a consensus here in the House where the boundaries should not be crossed, and then we have a chance to create a law of construction that will meet the two principles that we are trying to reconcile here. And let me say it once more - I'm sorry I mentioned it too, but it seems important to me, so I'm gonna say it again. The protection of cultural heritage should not be seen as something that completely critically affects the speed of construction proceedings in the Czech Republic in general. The size of the protected area, the conservation zones, consists of only about 1,4 per cent of the territory covered by the proceedings, 1.4 per cent only covered by the effectiveness of the construction law. This is actually a really small fraction, although I know that somewhere in important places or attractive locations - but this is definitely not the main thing in terms of the total area on which the construction law operates. Let's not just see this thing through Prague, where the landmark regulation meets, where a large number of owners and investors meet. We accept the law for the whole republic. So that's one thing we should keep in mind. And then I will remind you that we are actually adopting this law for the whole country and the Ministry of Culture, of course, depends on reducing the administrative burden, but this, I warn you, does not always have to be dealt with by the construction law. Many times we have talked about simplification by increasing the issue of protection plans, which will allow the obligation to require the opinions of the competent authorities and so on to be excluded. So let me just remind you that there are other instruments that are really important in terms of speed. And that's not something that belongs directly to the construction law, there's just another way to do it. Relying on the fact that one building law will solve all of this for us or that the question of acceleration in the area of conservation will be adjusted here in the building law, we see this as also a certain misunderstood thing. So it's just for starters, and now for the government draft. Of course, the government's draft building law, in conjunction with the accompanying amendment law, represented, from the outset, in many respects, a marginal compromise, where it was still possible to imagine some effective rational defending of the interests of cultural heritage under the new regulation. At the same time, I do not think that anyone who has become familiar with the government's draft would conclude that the interests of state conservation have somehow been strengthened from this compromise solution, rather, I would say that the truth is the opposite. What happens with this draft in the Chamber of Deputies is more concerned that even the minimum that has been agreed is disappearing - is running out - before our eyes. The integration of the competence of the body of state conservation was limited to property in the protection zone and the authorities of conservation care maintained the form of a binding opinion for defending the public interest in the section of the state conservation. Why are we trying to do this? A number of building cultural monuments and cultural properties in monuments and monument zones have values in small things, in details, without which the total value of these buildings would be significantly reduced. If you walk around the centers of our cities or visit some lonely pilgrim churches, you will notice the details immediately. That's the kind of playfulness that our ancestors dealt with in detail. And it's the details that we can let go of, disappear, blow it off, stop worrying about it and not protect it. At the same time, today we are dealing with a construction law, whose aim is to simplify procedures and find ways to minimize bureaucratic burdens in connection with construction activities, and logically, there is a risk that the protection of these details is often completely missed or that there is not really time and space for them. We'll stop thinking about them. And it's the regulation that follows from the construction law under discussion. So the restoration of internal wall frescoes, stained glass or craftsmanship of the entrance door to the farmstead are activities that are not interested in building law and leave the issue at first sight only conservation care. However, if the same details are solved within the overall reconstruction of the building building according to the construction law, we will immediately discover the building office in the decision-making process and the aforementioned integration of the powers of the authorities concerned. And as part of the preparation of the construction law, we have repeatedly said that for an ordinary citizen there would be a completely incomprehensible vision that with the restoration of the wall painting he should one day go to the construction office if it were part of the larger construction work, and in the latter case, the body that would deal with the same painting would be the municipal authority of the municipality with extended scope, only because of the fact that this type of modification will of course not interest the construction office. And the idea that one day the same painting will be decided by the building office, and with it there will be a file and a second with a distance of a few years, when you have to approach a partial retouch, that thing will be judged by another office, so it is obvious nonsense that led to an agreement on the degree of integration that was presented in a government draft and which, at first sight, could appear to be inappropriate compared to the integration of other public interests. However, it has factual logic, which resulted from many discussions in the preparation of the construction law. [[10.30 hours]] And at first glance, there are many of these in the building law and its accompanying change law. Almost every word or sentence we would find, in a detailed discussion of experts in the area, that what may appear to be an imbalance in the complex has a rational basis. And that doesn't change the fact that this base doesn't necessarily have to be seen at first sight. When the epidemiological situation allows us, please come to the State Opera, which we have nearby, or to the historic building of the National Museum, which in itself is one of the key museum exhibits, and I think you'll be right to find a lot of details and maybe some funny, historical jokes that we saved for future generations and it would be a shame to lose them. It's not far from here, but we can eventually find a lot of such examples in the regions, and you can perhaps name a whole lot of them yourself. And that is why, with great concern, I am looking at the interventions that are being implemented on the government's draft building law here in the Chamber of Deputies without being able to see the consequences of the changes that we are constantly witnessing here. Some of the colleagues here are talking about a revolution that individual amendments are to bring or have already brought. And I ask: are we really going to see the consequences of these changes, the changes to these revolutions that change the concept of a government proposal in a revolutionary way? Of course, I'm afraid it's quite possible that we won't be able to see at all. The first example of such a revolution is the introduction of an automatic permit of construction, which newly envisages the provisions of Section 196 of the draft construction law and the subsequent review procedure and in the proposed § 197 of the construction law, as Kalous and Kolovratník expected in their amendment. Despite the change in the heading of Section 196 of the Construction Act, the so-called automatic permit is returned to the Construction Act. By simply comparing the draft building bill in the form submitted in November 2019 to the commentary procedure and the text of the amendment in question, we conclude that, apart from a few minor details, the solution is actually identical. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft construction law, the proposed proposal is also based on the assumption that the existing standards set in the area of protection of architectural heritage are maintained, as they bind the Czech Republic under the Convention on the Protection of Architectural Heritage, issued under heading 73/2000 Coll. This is primarily the adoption of measures to protect the architectural heritage or prevent the disfigurement, decay or demolition of protected goods. It is therefore not at all clear how an automatically generated decision can prevent the deformity, decay or demolition of goods protected under that Convention. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft building law and given that one of the conditions of the registration of the domestic estate on the list of world heritage and the retention of the estate on this list is the existence of a guarantee of the protection of such a good by means of national law, the draft law provides for the maintenance of existing standards for the protection of cultural and natural heritage according to the Convention on the Protection of this Heritage, published under heading 159/1991 Coll. It should be noted that the standards of protection still in force do not foresee that the impact on the value of the protected good will not be assessed at all. In my opinion, the guarantee does not constitute a procedure under Section 197 of the proposal for a new construction law. According to this section, the review procedure shall be carried out in the specified cases. However, these cases only affect part of the goods protected under those conventions. They do not fall on sightseeing reservations or landmark zones, although they are undisputedly protected property as well. This is a matter which the Ministry of Culture has already mentioned separately and explicitly in December 2019. A year and a quarter has passed, and without any reflection, including a reminder partial error, we have the solution back. The rapporteur here is the rapporteur for this press, because the review procedure is a review of the legality and not a review of the substantive correctness of the automatically generated decision. For me, it is more than a fundamental question of how, for example, a senior construction office would assess the substantive question of whether the implementation of the project will not disfigure the protected property. I believe that this question goes beyond the limits of the review procedure and therefore the review procedure is no factual guarantee. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the actual fact of generating an automatic decision should be considered as the start of a subjective period for the initiation of the review procedure pursuant to Paragraph 96 (2) of the basic Regulation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This deadline cannot be extended and it is therefore a very fundamental issue of what the construction law gives guarantees to protect against this type of inactivity. Contrary to the protection of private interest, where, for example, by limiting the scope of review only to legality, it gives private interest very essential safeguards, so, in the event of failure by the building authority to act in relation to the protection of public interest, it does not give any guarantees, and inaction at all levels can result in a complete exclusion of the assessment of any public interest. That means when I said that our role here is to balance, to find a balance between individual interest and public interest, so here on this example, I'm trying to show that this balance here is clearly wasted. There's just public interest on the side. You can't talk about having enough space or a chance to get ahead. On the contrary, the room for corruption, when qualified inaction is sufficient by the Office, is enormous in this case. This opens like Eldorado. Therefore, I consider the conclusion on the anti-corruption potential of the proposed law as a whole and from this point of view to be very controversial in the knowledge of this amendment. This is the door for corruption. Here I refer briefly also to the comments that we have already made on the substantive intention of the construction law, where it must be noted that the concerns previously raised have never been dispersed, and therefore the institute has been removed from the government draft building law without compensation. During the first reading, the Minister informed us that the bill of construction contains sufficient guarantees against inactivity, which were also to be strengthened by the complete exclusion of the possibility of exercising the power of the building authority in delegated action, as follows from the comprehensive amendment which forms the basis for our negotiations. And look - it's not enough. We are returning to a solution that has already been found problematic in the context of the comment procedure. Can we say, or can you say - what is it, is it just culture? Okay, but I'm warning you, culture hasn't been there, and it's not alone. 35 comment points were opposed to this solution. Neither 35 comment points, not only culture, but the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, most of the regions, the Ombudsman opposed this solution. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Supreme Authority for Cyber and Information Security have opposed this solution. Did all these people really not know what they were talking about? Did such a problematic provision really go out in vain by the Ministry of Regional Development? I believe that the opposite is true, and the more I am struck by the fact that with this amendment, the rapporteur here comes and puts it back into play again. They should be aware of the context associated with the bill. But this does not put an end to the illustration of problematic amendments. Another amendment has also become a theme of the media. You may have noticed the fact that some cities come with so-called four urban artifacts, one of which concerns the transfer of land planning documentation to municipalities and regions entirely within a separate scope. In principle, the proposal is presented as minimalist with the fact that it merely moves the acquisition of land-use planning documentation of municipalities and regions from the transferred scope to a separate one. [[10.40 hours]] Right here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, we should be aware that the degree of binding in separate and delegated legislation is different, or, in the case of separate competence, it is not possible to rely on the regulation of sub-laws and the application of the principle of supremacy and subjection. Therefore, there would be procedures and regulations that today did not have to be dealt with by a separate building law. So far, the construction law could leave a number of questions to implementation regulations, government resolutions or methodological guidance within the hierarchy of administration. After all, the constitutionally guaranteed exercise of self-government and relatively narrow scope for the entry of state power into this exercise under Article 101 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic carry with it a number of questions as to how it could be applied for the public interests of constitutionally defendable restrictions on the acquisition of territorial planning documentation. This is not a principle that is defendable with the support of the laws, but it must be assessed whether a change in this optics does not require entry into the level of constitutional regulations which did not count on this scope of self-government and did not foresee a similar degree of guarantee of the protection of individual public interests. This would not only concern public interests for the protection of cultural or natural heritage, but also public interests for over-regional buildings, whether motorways, railway corridors or spinal products. At present, the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic provide a relatively high level of protection of the interests of self-government and there is no contradiction between the independent scope of municipalities and regions in the approval of the territorial planning documentation. The transfer of the acquisition of land-use planning documentation of municipalities or regions to their exclusive jurisdiction could thus lead to a total impossibility of promoting public interests promoted from the state's positions. Moreover, these judgments clearly imply a different relationship and a different intervention of the right to self-government in the context of territorial planning other than that envisaged in the amendment in question, which aims to further strengthen the position of self-government. The fact that a different solution is now being considered which completely changes the existing and agreed principles without a number of questions being able to be answered can be considered to be very problematic and decisively contrary to the principles on which the protection of public interests under the new construction law should be ensured. The proposed solution contradicts, then clearly weakens the protection of the public interest, since the proposed section 55 para. 3 of the construction law gives a clear preference to the opinion of the local authorities and the local authorities will have no fundamental reason to seek compromise solutions. It is sufficient not to retreat for 60 days, and the opinion of the municipality or region will take the top, regardless of whether any compromise solution has been proposed by the institution concerned. Here again, you see a clear imbalance. The provisions of § 55 para. are also not linked. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 and 3 of the Construction Act. The line of conflict resolution is divided into two separate branches, which are not included in the link between those provisions. For the sake of completeness, I add that the resolution of the conflict between the authorities concerned can only be regulated by a ruling at the government level. The fact that a contradiction with one and the same authority may be resolved by both the self-governing authority and the other institution concerned does not solve the proposed adjustment at all. Therefore, if the proposed regulation were to apply, then there might be a rather absurd situation that the resolution of the conflict between the authorities concerned adopted by the government would not have to be reflected in the regional planning documentation at all, as the period of 60 days submitted in Section 55 of the Construction Act would have expired, and possibly a period of 90 days if we added the time limit contained in Section 55 of the Construction Act. 4 Building Act. The marginalisation of the protection of the public interest, even in the form of a solution to conflict at government level, is alarming in this state. Furthermore, it should be recalled that further absurdity linked to the proposed solution and the resolution of the conflict between the authorities concerned in the conciliation procedure should the Authority wait for the resolution of the conflict between the authorities concerned, which does not in any way impose on it the proposed adjustment or any subsequent means of rescue. The solution to the conflict between the authorities concerned could, like today, take the form of a two- or even multilateral public contract to resolve the conflict. However, on the part of the institution concerned, it would not be one of the institutions concerned, but those institutions which have concluded a public contract and, in the case of an agreement with the self-governing authority, they would have to enter into that public contract within a given time limit, because the revision of the public contract proves that there has been a solution contrary to the local authority. Whether this entry into an effective public contract in connection with an adjustment in the administrative order is possible, the proposed regulation does not address it. In addition, if there is an agreement at the level of the central authorities, in the second stage, a quasi-mediation role should be played by the regional authority, which should, within its competence, motivate or otherwise persuade a higher level of government to change its view. This situation seemed even more absurd if the government were to resolve the conflict between the authorities concerned. Then an authorised member of the government for the institution concerned should participate in the settlement of a conflict with the local authority and should ensure that the Government's resolution is amended if the solution is agreed with the local authority. In addition, if an authorised member of the government fails to do so within 30 days of the date of the municipality's call, then the authorised member of the government should be subordinate to that quasi-mediation role of the regional authority in the case of the local planning documentation of the municipality. The above-mentioned establishment is also not drawn up in a number of other details. One of them is, for example, the relationship to the suspension of the effectiveness of the planning documentation and the running of the 30-day period pursuant to § 55 para. 4 draft construction law. However, the adjustment of this issue is secondary to this fact and does not address other related problems associated with this provision. In view of the possible review of the approved zoning plan, it should be pointed out that the possibilities of State authority entry into the approved zoning plan will be reduced, since, in the case of the acquisition of territorial planning documents in the delegated scope, it has already provided a very strong position of law in the territory of self-government, for example, the resolution of the Constitutional Court of the Brand... it is III US 38717/17 of 23. 5. 2019. In the light of this resolution, it is questionable how the guarantee of the right to local authority will be viewed in the case of a possible supervisory instrument under the now proposed section 55 para. 4 Building Act. It should be noted here that despite the text of § 287 para. In this case, the control is limited solely to compliance with the construction law. In view of the above provisions of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, compliance with the legislation issued for the implementation of the Construction Act - measures of a general nature and decisions issued pursuant to this Act, including compliance with the Government's orders, directives of central administrative authorities, as well as measures taken by the competent public authorities in the control of the exercise of the delegated powers, cannot be subject to scrutiny. Moreover, the interests involved will be defended with the support of absolutely different laws than the law of construction, and therefore will be more than questionable to what extent it will be possible to respond in this way to the disregard of public interests, whose basis is outside the law of construction. This is an example of not only the interest of state conservation care, but also the protection, use and further development of resources of natural healing spas, spa places and so on. This reminds me of the joint nomination of spa cities in Europe for the World Heritage List, where three spa cities are nominated for the Czech Republic: Karlovy Vary, Mariánské Lázně and Františkovy Lázně, which could be negatively affected by this modification, and it could mean the elimination of our representatives from this international nomination. That is also one of the consequences of this adjustment. And I have to ask again whether disrespect for the protection of these public interests will be possible to deal with corrective measures under Section 288 of the proposed construction law. The answer is, I don't think so. Neither of these public interests has its legal basis in the construction law, the adoption of a zoning plan contrary to those interests does not constitute a contradiction with the construction law and the correction of the basic state will not be possible. In its letter of 22 February 2021, the Minister for Regional Development assured me that the transfer of the acquisition of land-use planning documents to a separate remit, dealt with by this amendment, is not supported and opposed by the Ministry. But today, as I see it, there was a motion filed that was loaded. So, contrary to this assurance I received, I learned that an amendment had been loaded. But I see a lot of contradiction in that today. In the fact that there's a proposal that's re-entering, and this whole thing, like this, is entering, it's coming back into play. It is, therefore, read by a Member who is currently a member of the YES movement, which means that he is a member of the same movement as the Minister, which does not seem to be completely uncoordinated. [[10.50 hours]] But I see a lot of contradiction in that today. In the fact that there's a proposal that's re-entering, and this whole thing, like this, is entering, it's coming back into play. It is, therefore, read by a Member who is currently a member of the YES movement, which means that he is a member of the same movement as the Minister, which does not seem to be completely without coordination. At the same time, I must say that I am not opposed to seeking solutions to this issue and priori, I do not see it in black and white, in order to assess the possible effects of the relocations of municipal planning documents and regions transferred from their own remit, the Minister for Regional Development has set up a Working Group on Territorial Planning 2030, which has only been met once and already from the initial discussion it was clear that even the fundamental issues of this issue are not yet clarified. This solution under consideration is certainly not perceived as conflict-free. And the output of this working group is to be a conceptual solution to this issue, and in this respect the Ministry of Culture is prepared to provide synergies to the activities of this working group. This is a platform where, or where, the overall concept of the transfer of competence may form a basis, and where it should also be discussed, what are the guarantees for not reducing or even excluding the possibility of applying public interest within the framework of territorial planning. And I'm just saying - let's not push through this concept without taking into account the consequences, when one of them may even be an intervention in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. In addition, in the neighbouring Federal Republic of Germany, for example, the priority situation in which public infrastructure is incorporated directly in the laws and not in the sub-legal acts, as it presents with the knowledge of a different concept of the development of territorial planning documentation, the Government's proposal for a construction law, and logically also the proposal proposed by the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which is the basis for the formulation of individual amendments. However, the solution chosen in the Federal Republic of Germany in relation to priority constructions is not a solution which, in terms of conservation care, can be functional, and therefore, in relation to the German model, we are only at the beginning of the search for starting points, and not at the end, as the amendment would suggest, moving the acquisition of land planning documents into a separate scope with regard to the minimalist form of this proposal. And it's just a piece of the mosaic of many changes that the government's draft building law has undergone or passes in the Chamber of Deputies, and it's not cosmetic changes, it's not partial changes, it's really revolutionary, it's fundamentally conceptual, which deviates from what the government that I'm a member has approved, and if you think our cultural heritage can be defended under the slogan: Let's try it, and if it doesn't work, then we change it, it seems a little risky method. There is a risk that the moment we want to push for change, there will be no more part of what we wanted or should have protected. There is not only talk of the inheritance because it was handed over to us by the ancestors, but also because it is sometimes hard to replace or at all irreplaceable when we ignore or neglect it for some time. And it is because of the irreplaceability or the irreplaceability that discourages me from respecting the call for courage to take revolutionary steps here, in which we do not know where they will lead us and what will be the result and impact. A great deal of change in this discussion is negatively signifying the clarity and clarity of what is currently on the table. Let me give you an illustrative example. We have an agreement with Minister Dostálová that her ministry will inform the culture of changes that may affect our strategy. I appreciate that, the communication, and I note that in many cases we have actually acted, the negotiations have taken place. However, the relentless attempt to reverse the government's proposal into a form that passes both with the government's draft and with the substantive intention of the construction law, i.e. the achievement of a condition which was not subject to prior expert assessment, commentation or assessment by the Government's Legislative Council, leads to a state of disrespectful compromises that allowed the matter to be moved to the House. For example, the external attention of the more cautious officials of the Ministry of Regional Development seems to have escaped, for example, the almost seemingly minor regulation of competences in the area of protection of archaeological findings, made in connection with procedures under the construction law. We have not been informed about this shift, which is why I am forced to read at least in this regard an amendment which brings the matter back to a form which corresponds to the agreements concluded within the framework of the basic comments made by the Ministry of Culture. I will sign up for this amendment in the context of a detailed debate, and that is simply because the impact here would be totally unacceptable to culture if we had to, in fact, bear all the costs associated with such new ones... For which we have neither the means nor the strength. So I'm saying these things come out, and here they only react to something, which can't just be left like this, because those impacts would be devastating to us. But I have to ask how many such, at first glance, minor changes that may have been put into the government's proposal in good intentions, but without deeper knowledge, the context. I suspect all I see is the proverbial tip of the iceberg, and the ice meat under the water is hidden from some of us. And in spite of that, I feel that we do not want to admit that the number of changes that have been made here - so maybe it will contribute to the collapse of the entire building right rather than to its Renaissance. And that's something we shouldn't admit that in the name of good intentions, we're gonna do something that's gonna happen as usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u31	Thank you, Minister of Culture. I have two factual points, Marek Výborný and Jan Čižinský, reporting to the rapporteur. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u32	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to thank you. Here we have witnessed what it means - tell the truth and nothing but the truth. And we are not often witnessed here in the House that the minister can defend his resort in this way. At this point, you are basically the guardian of this country's cultural wealth and heritage. And what you just said here, I think is exactly what deserves the reflection of the proposal we have here today. And, Madam Secretary, when you opposed us here that it is not true that things have not been settled, and that agreements have been respected, and that the entire government behind your proposal, Mr Kolovratník, that is, the version today, is worth one man, so I want to ask. Do you feel the same after the speech of the Minister of Culture? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u33	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, and now for Mr Čižinský's point of fact, Madam Secretary after that. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u34	Thank you. I would also like to thank the Minister of Culture, because he actually said here: We are in a hurry, we do not know what influence this will have, and as Minister of Culture I warn, because it can endanger our cultural heritage. There should definitely be an environmental minister here, I suppose he should say the same thing. If we look into the past, it was the protection of the environment and the protection of cultural heritage that needed - if we look before November 1989 - it was an engine or one of the engines criticizing the regime and brave people defending nature, defending monuments against that power. And if we look at the stories of those brave people, defending these very values eventually led more and more people into opposition to the communist regime then. And now we need to make no mistake in putting those values at risk again. [[You didn't?]] Because it is not that every building idea is a good idea, the building process is conflicting by nature and it is also necessary to give time to all parties to agree on the best solution. And that's not what this proposal is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u35	The time for a point of fact is over. Madam Secretary Dostálová with a factual remark and the rapporteur shall report. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u36	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. I also thank the Minister for the performance. I would just like to draw the honourable House's attention to the fact that whether a government proposal or a comprehensive amendment is always with a positive opinion from the resort. What the Minister spoke of are partial amendments, with those of the Ministry of Culture itself and, after all, many other departments have a problem, and it is indeed in the honourable House, how it will stand up to those partial amendments. We, who had problems with the resorts, never allowed them to incorporate into those standards, whether it was a government or a comprehensive amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u37	The rapporteur, with a factual point. With priority? In that case, Mr Jan Čižinský shall take precedence with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. Well, I guess I'd like to be more specific, Madam Secretary. Since the minister here spoke, his speech made clear sense, and that sense was and I think we all heard it here, the point was that our country's cultural heritage is threatened by this proposal, it is not clear how the protection of the cultural heritage that it has in Georgia will be defended. This also threatens, among other things, the inaction that will lead to legal consequences. And you're saying he supports the proposal. So we've got you, we've got the Minister here. What the Minister said made sense. And I would like to call on you, Madam Secretary, to respond specifically to the Minister's complaints. Because everyone can do it. You came here a little while ago and you said, "You have all the positive opinions, and it's totally cool." And then you sat down. The Minister has arrived. He spoke very differently. Then you got up again and you said, it's got an attitude, it's some sort of partial thing, it's all great. Over. Respond specifically to the Minister! Respond to the deadline that will lead to legal consequences when it expires! Why does the Minister have - and from my point of view - the view that cultural heritage will be threatened? That the protection of monuments will not be defended in building activities, in clearly specific situations that he has named here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u39	Thank you. Minister Dostálová wants to respond with a factual point. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u40	Thank you. I'll try slower. I said that the Minister responded to the amendments tabled. There really are 34 of them, as soon as I've noticed, maybe there's more of them already filed. He says that these amendments would fundamentally change the basic standard that could endanger cultural monuments. That's the Minister's point of view. Of course, we will go through all the amendments with the whole circle of resorts, and it can be assumed that the Ministry of Culture will have a negative opinion on these amendments. Another speech was given by the Minister on zoning, where he also disagrees that it should be put into such an urgent position. He correctly said that this is what the task force is for and that it should be discussed in more detail. I say that what we have put forward, whether to the government or a comprehensive amendment to the Economic Committee, has been passed through the opinions of the Ministry of Culture, where the Ministry of Culture also had a favourable opinion, because nothing has touched on cultural matters in that comprehensive amendment to the Economic Committee. What concerns culture are partial amendments, and that is, of course, for every Member. I cannot influence who can and cannot submit an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u41	I thank the Minister and the factual remarks will continue. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Marek Výborný after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u42	Thank you for the floor. I, I must say, have not heard that this would be against the partial amendments. I have heard from the Minister here that he has expressed his views on the amendments, even on the specific ones of Mr Kolovratník. So, actually, Madam Secretary, what you said here doesn't make any sense. You're actually saying the Ministry has a positive opinion on this. But the Minister here did not convey his positive position, neither partial nor overall. The Minister here warned us to accept the law in such a form as is now being pushed and proposed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u43	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný, then with a factual remark, Mr Martin Kupka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think I'd like to make it easy for all of us. Everyone can watch the Minister's speech from the screen recording, before the Minister's. I think it is quite obvious, Madam Secretary, you know this - at this point we are discussing the bill of construction in the wording of Mr Kolovratník's proposal, that is, in the wording on which you, as Minister, put your thumb. And a substantial part of the comments made by the Minister of Culture, who clearly expressed his concerns here, was precisely on this, as you are trying to tell us here, a partial amendment. That's not true. But I think it's obvious that you don't want to respond clearly to the questions my colleague Čižinský has asked. There will certainly be room for third reading and for all who are interested in where the truth is, so compare the speech of the Minister and Minister Zaorálek on purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u45	Thank you. Now, Mr Martin Kupka, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u46	I would just like to ask the Minister, because I have been involved in a whole series of debates, and you have now been a little distancing, as I understand it, from the proposal that deals with the transfer of the entire territorial planning to a separate remit, with the fact that it is actually a partial proposal from Members that if it is a partial proposal, then you cannot influence it. But I've witnessed you actually conducting negotiations about it being part of, in a good way, your policy to enforce that law. And so did my colleague, Kolovratník, at one debate, said that the train wasn't going through it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u47	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Zaorálek, after whom Minister Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u48	They say the main art is to say something simple. I'm gonna try to say for myself in very simple words what I think is the problem with the construction bill, and make it without the whole ambush around. I see two basic movements in the construction law that are happening there. One move is that for the state - building administration, it will only be carried out by the state, not by the delegation of the city and the region. It's kind of a centralization movement, let's say nationalization. And there's a second move against that, that's that the land-planning documentation is pulling cities together, and the state is ultimately staying sideways. If the community doesn't back down in any dispute, it's right, in fact the state won't have a chance to intervene. There are some supervisory powers, but they're on the level, and we say, it's not gonna work. So actually the result is that the state doesn't have a tool to reverse the decision. I think that's the dysbalance. Where there was to be a public interest, so there completely loses the ability to hold the public interest, because, as I said, there will eventually be the last word the village will have. If he doesn't retreat, he's right. That is, for me, the fundamental imbalance. If the law was to strike a balance between state and interest, let's say partial, I think it's falling apart here, and the law isn't actually doing what it had.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u49	Minister Dostálová, then Mr Čižinský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u50	Thank you. I'm just gonna go with the zoning to answer. Yes, the Ministry of Regional Development has established the Territorial Planning Task Force 2030 and supports that spatial planning should be in a separate area of competence. We, however, drew attention to all the suggestions that this was obviously coming about very quickly, and we had a number of comments. Whether those comments from the Ministry were incorporated into the final proposal, I'm sorry, but I really don't know because it was recorded at night. So we will see when we get to the amendment, what will be the position of the resort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u51	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u52	Thank you. Minister Zaorálek here very rightly pointed out one partial concern and it must be said that this dispute will be decided by the court, because if anyone wants to defend any interest, they will turn to the court. But this is going to happen with a large other majority of all private versus municipal clashes. It's just going to happen that the speed, the automatic decision will lead to a large number of lawsuits, and here it's presented as an acceleration. I think that anyone who has ever tried a similar thing knows that it will not lead to any acceleration, that it will lead to a flood of courts and that it will lead to a great slowdown. And I would also like to draw attention to one important aspect that Minister Zaorálek mentioned here, that is the pro-corruption aspect. And those are not my words, those are the words of the Minister. These are the words of your colleague, Madam Secretary, the words of the Minister of this Government, who have warned here from this counter about the pro-corruption aspect of the law that is being discussed here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u53	Thank you. Minister Dostálová will respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u54	Very fast again. I'm sorry, there's no automatic permit in the bill! It's not! It is part of some partial amendment, but it is not in the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u55	Thank you. Mr Čižinský, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u56	Does this, Madam Secretary, support your club, for which you are the Minister, and your support, or does it not? [[Interrogation off the microphone.]] Automatically generated - it doesn't, so the club doesn't raise its hand for it. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Definitely not for the Ministry, but maybe that'll happen. Thank you for the clarification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u57	Thank you. And now it is the rapporteur's turn, Mr Kolovratník, with priority rights. Mr Pavel šindelář will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u58	I'll lighten things up first. We are apparently witnessing coalition riots, quotes, the joy of opposition colleagues who are responding to this. That's what's gonna happen. Seriously. I'm gonna try to make this right. So it happens, it's just part of the debate, it's part of O debate, O.K., we're in favour of putting the arguments on the table and explaining it. I beg you, what Minister Zaorálek was talking about, it is said that we are either looking for a way to do this, Minister, so that things can go, to succeed, or to look for reasons why they cannot. I don't know how much detail you're in, who wrote that statement of culture, and I certainly don't question it, it's right for the minister to fight for his department and defend his rights. As I understood it, as I perceived your speech, it was partly a criticism of the complex amendment and some individual ones. So maybe I want to ask my opponents, don't catch up with the secretary, now I'm gonna stand up for her a little bit. These are sometimes the reactions to some of the individual ones that are now coming into the system during March. If I understand correctly, the automatic decision, the measures against inactivity, it's not even in the government, it's the Minister's way of saying it, it's not even in the complex economic committee, it should be Adam Kalous, one of those individual proposals. And here I want to explain, it's a measure against inactivity. We're just looking for the way we set our deadlines in the whole law, and I repeat again, who are we doing this for? For the citizens, for the people, for the investors, for the municipalities, but also for the Ministry of Culture, which the monuments, entrusted with the real estate, still wants to repair, want to have them in good condition, wants to move them somewhere and does not want to throw ping-pong individual appeals, disagreements and so on. So one of the tools, one of the options here is the automatic decision, and the only thing I'm going to say and I'm going to say and I'm going to remind you, and that might explain it at least a little bit: it's not final. He's always gonna have to be reviewed anyway, and he's gonna have to be assessed. But if the authorities decide within a time limit, then, of course, nothing like that has to happen. As far as the concern, as I have listened to the Minister, is concerned about the imbalance of the protection of public interests, so, again, it is necessary to look a little more carefully or better at the individual amendments. In one of them, and already in the system for several days, Minister - I am not perceived, but it will therefore be in the minutes - exactly directly to § 1 para. 3 together with Adam Kalous, I read it: "The aim of the construction law is to ensure integrated protection of public interests in the planning, approval of buildings and construction and" - please note - "to create conditions for sustainable development of the territory and to improve the quality of the built environment, architecture and building culture for people's lives and needs." So what we are saying in the opening paragraphs of this law is that the law is not only about developers or private interests, but that it is about balancing all public interests, balancing sustainable development of the entire territory as a whole, and that it is the construction administration, and now I am returning to it, thanks to a uniform methodology, integration, uniform procedures, the expertise of officials, which we are also putting in the form of an amendment, should be able to control this. And a final answer or an attempt to explain the Minister of Culture's concerns about spatial planning. Again, before criticism it is good to look into it better and more detailed. Yes, we have said, and I stand by it and see it as one of the fundamental pillars - the separate scope of the municipality and the region, but also quite precisely in Section 55, Minister, we are currently describing and describing, to some extent in a specific way, the resolution of the contradictions in a very rapid manner, if there is a conflict between the region, the municipality or the institution concerned, the region or the municipality and the institution concerned will discuss the contradiction in the conciliation procedure. There are fixed deadlines set. If there is no agreement, we are moving up to the next instance, the Supreme Building Office or the Regional Authority, if this is a contradiction between the municipality and the body concerned. Once again, we have a 60-day deadline, and now please be careful, if there's no agreement here either, the dispute, the final settler of the dispute will be the government, the Supreme Building Office will hand the dispute over to the government. And this is what we see as key -- there's this concern, as I've heard it, between weakening the role of the state, protecting the interest of the state, whether in agriculture, the environment, in your case of culture, and the fact that municipalities, municipalities in quotation marks are going to do something, so right here, as insurance for these disputes, we see a submission to the government. And we believe that if a government is put here to decide within 60 days, it will ultimately give priority to the enforcement of the state's factual interests over the interests of self-government. This is done at the highest level of government, its members are representatives of individual departments who will defend the interest of their particular resort in such a dispute. It's actually the last insurance policy. And I note that there must be no conflict with the superior land planning documentation, regional land plans and so on and so on. So maybe it's just a lack of communication. I'm happy to hand over my cell phone number with my colleagues on culture, we can really look into it and try to explain it. I believe that if not all of them, much of the Minister of CultureZaorálek concerns will be scattered and that even here we can find if not overall, at least partial agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u59	Thank you. Your contribution caused a reaction in the form of factual remarks. Mr Martin Kupka will be the first to speak, then Mr Jan Čižinský, then Mr Adam Kalous. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u60	A colleague of mine, Kolovratník, has started the April humor here - he has read us the sentence he puts into it, said that it is completely exact, and then he has read something that was completely inexact, about the development of culture, the architectural level in the Czech Republic. That's all I thought was the smiley one. But if we are talking about compliance with deadlines, here from the beginning, from last year onwards, we appeal that the adoption of digitalisation of the Portal by the builder, who will offer an overview of how the negotiations last, gives really the strongest tool to improve respect for legal deadlines, because it will not only be seen by the builder himself, but it will, of course, see all the other institutions and the control of the building process will be really significantly better. [[11.20 hours]] What you are proposing to accept in the form of a parliamentary amendment as an automatic building permit, I consider it extremely dangerous, even if it is subject to review, but it is an entry that simply has significant risks that cannot be eliminated by this. I know it was part of the original concept, the original government proposal. It's a good thing it doesn't work there right now, but I warn against it from the perspective of possible other complications that will come back, not in favor, but against the benefit of the builder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u61	Thank you. It is now Mr Jan Čižinský's point in fact. Mr Kalous will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u62	Thank you. It's actually an interesting situation here, I mean a systemically interesting situation, where my colleague, Mr. Kolovratník, is actually acting as a minister here. Note that colleague Kolovratník here actually reconciles the interests of the Ministry, he offers the Ministry his mobile phone to solve all of this. Maybe even as a prime minister, and now I don't mean it badly. But notice that there's a secretary sitting next to the rapporteur, and the rapporteur says, if you have a problem, Mr. Secretary, call me, here's my phone number, we'll figure it out, we'll make a deal. That means, in practice, we have two ministers here, the Minister, who - it seems - does not know what will pass, and then there is a colleague, Mr. Kolovratník, who knows what will pass. And I think it would be fair just to tell everyone what you think will eventually be supported in that law, or at least to support the club of the ANO movement. I think it would be really fair to say which of these proposals will be supported, because then the game will stop here: I do not suggest it, it is not an MP, it is not our fault, then it will pass somehow. That's exactly the risk we're not supposed to take in this law. And it's exactly the same thing that happened with the executions, that it just took a hand in this direction, and it turned out to be a complete disaster.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u63	Thank you. Mr Adam Kalous. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to express my views on the factual remarks made by my colleague Čižinský and on what Minister Zaorálek has said. And I will start with the Minister because a substantial part of his speech was directed towards an automatic decision, and this is indeed my amendment and my colleague Kolovratník's amendment. The Ministry of Regional Development has not spoken about this until now. The amendment has been recorded there since last night, and I am aware that this is an issue that needs to be discussed. We have tabled two amendments concerning an automatic decision. The second option is that there will be a flat-rate compensation of CZK 1,000 per day, because I want those authorities to decide within a legal period. And I'm going to repeat what has already been said here, the automatic decision is not final, it's always under review. It is only a measure against inactivity and the Authority is to decide within legal time limits so that automatic decisions do not arise. If criticism is directed at the Minister, this is what I want to do to defend her, because we really put it there yesterday. And if the criticism is, please point it at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u65	Thank you. Mr Pavel šindelář will now speak in the debate. Mr Kopřiva will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, Construction Act is one of the most important laws that will fundamentally affect most citizens, natural and legal persons as builders, self-government as the main guarantors of the quality of the environment for the lives of both citizens and employers, and in particular, and last but not least, the state administration as the administrator of important infrastructure, the guarantor of a number of protected values and the rule of law. Undoubtedly, the future form of this law will affect our country's prosperity. I would like to contribute with this speech to the fact that, after 22 years of legislative misstepping, this change really leads to the successful development of our Republic. Unfortunately, the bill presented will not lead to this objective. I would like to add the role of Member to the experience of municipal policy. I have been deputy mayor of the city of Pilsen for seven years, and territorial development falls within my remit. At the same time, I'm a designated representative. Plzeň, I dare say, is a very successful city and this success lies in the adoption of a methodically contemporary zoning plan. We adopted the territorial plan in 2016. In 2017, he won the Construction of the Year Award for an urban project. He proved his resistance to several lawsuits. He created a basis for the processing of a number of territorial studies. It also provided the preparation of almost 200 hectares of transformal areas for development. And that, of course, is an asset to the citizens of the city of Pilsen. Based on these processed documentation, substantial volumes of housing are being placed in the city's internal reserves and, in particular, provide housing supply. However, I am not quite sure that the bill that is being discussed here would allow the adoption, or the issuance of such a zoning plan. Furthermore, as a self-government, we produce strategic and conceptual documents that enable us to create a quality environment corresponding to the 21st century for the citizens of Pilsen. They are like sustainable mobility plans, adaptation strategies and so on. And it must be said that however difficult it is, we are able to achieve this on the basis of an agreement with the state administration and its organisations and other actors in the territory. Nevertheless, if I look at the management of territorial or construction, we still advocate all the legitimate interests of the city with its 170 000 inhabitants only from the position of petitioner and at the moments of the approval of constructions and projects we are at the mercy of laws, measures, interests, administrators of transport and technical infrastructure and state authorities. Although we bear all responsibility in front of our residents and the costs of negotiations, our rights as cities are at the level of the neighbor builder. But that does not solve the bill in any way and misses. At this point, it is necessary or necessary to express the recognition of a large number of entities and institutions which, in non-standard time conditions and with great commitment, participated in the commemoration, creation and basically subservient activities of the Ministry of Regional Development. However, I also have to express my regret about the way the law is prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development and to mention some of the reservations that I consider to be crucial in the further process of negotiating this law. If you would argue that today we are not discussing the proposal of the Ministry for Regional Development, but the comprehensive amendment of the group of Members, especially from the ANO movement, then believe that this is not the case. This amendment of the law is clearly based on the draft law of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry participates in it significantly and comments on it. Therefore, this proposed comprehensive amendment today cannot be understood as anything other than the Government's proposal for the YES movement, i.e. a materialized idea of how the approval of constructions in the Czech Republic will work for the future. [[11.30 hours]] Unfortunately, this vision is based on several misconceptions. At the level of analysis, the intention of the bill is not complete, i.e. correct, data. The author of the bill interprets the findings based on a questionnaire inquiry by Doing Business for the World Bank in his own way and draws from it the data that is best suited for the argument. As the main conclusion of the analysis, the Czech Republic is among the last countries examined in terms of the length of the permit process for construction. This conclusion is misleading since the questionnaire investigation only examined the cases of industrial warehouse construction and at the same time took into account in the evaluation a number of other parameters, which included the complexity or number of operations in the process or a set of parameters forming an index of the quality of the construction including the fulfilment of technical and territorial planning requirements for the construction itself and documentation. However, the Czech Republic failed more than in terms of the length of the process, particularly in the complexity of management and very poor quality control of buildings and documentation, and at the same time we are still dealing with a very low price for the relevant permits and documentation in relation to the price of the building, which is, among other things, another monitored parameter. I will allow myself to confirm these systemic deficiencies from the point of view of municipal practice and to state them in the context of the processing and discussion of the new construction law. Yes, it is indeed part of the design or investor practice of filing incomplete or imperfect documentation, whether at the level of territorial decision-making or building authorisation, and this obviously has a negative effect on the length of the proceedings. At the same time, documentation is presented that seeks to overcome, for example, the capacity of the territory provided for by planning documentation or territorial studies, and thus to change the agreement in the territory I was talking about, which also affects the length of the proceedings. These problems can be called low respect in relation to documentation requirements and low respect for agreement in the territory. In other words, if there is no consequence for the designer or investor for the submission of incomplete or imperfect documentation, there is nothing to prevent it from being submitted to him, and unfortunately it will be relatively cheaper for the builder, which is confirmed by the World Bank survey that I mentioned here. At the same time, the state can never be the real guarantor of the agreement in the territory and its active enforcer. We can only rhetorically ask how many black buildings in violation of the zoning plan have been removed by the state in the last 22 years. In this sense, the question is whether the proposed recodification, which we are discussing now, is aware of and responds to real practical problems in relation to the length of the permit building projects. I can answer that directly. The bill does not deal with this, because the bill assumes, and completely mistakenly, that the officials of the construction offices fail to comply with the deadlines, do not pay attention to the files, and therefore it is necessary to set a more stringent standard on them and to check them with consistent state control. However, who moves in practice knows that filing flawless project documentation may be useful, as I have already said, but above all, it is essentially impossible, because it is not possible with regard to inconspicuous and rampant legislation. However, the simplification of legislation is not something that I have had the opportunity to study, and therefore, colleagues, let us not expect the construction process to accelerate significantly. If the petitioner considers that the construction process will accelerate by reducing the number of types of proceedings without simplifying the related legislation, it will not really work. Of course, the problem of the length of the building authorisation or rather the failure to comply with deadlines which lie on the part of the administration's exercise of delegated or direct competence exists, but it is necessary to repeat that it is not due to the laziness or stupidity of officials. This problem has exactly the same cause as the seemingly unrelated problem of ensuring the quality of decision-making. This is due to the absence of a quality agreement in the territory. The agreement in the territory is an essential prerequisite for the possibility of good and rapid decision-making in the territory. Without an agreement in the territory there is nothing to decide, you do not know whether you are making the right decision, and catching up in the decision-making process means delaying the decision and is the main cause of the instance ping-pong without deadlines. Most municipalities and professional organizations, such as the Czech Chamber of Architects, have long been warned, and especially the practice of successful cities and municipalities proves that only self-government can effectively negotiate an agreement in the territory, based on suitable local planning tools tailored to a specific location. The national central authority or the unified methodology shall not provide such an agreement or, where appropriate, merely seemingly leading to conflicts in the territory. So by centralization, by unification, I don't think we can help ourselves, Madam Secretary, through Mr President. For this reason, I also wish to express my concern whether the author of the bill has any interest in building on the practice of self-governments which actually implement local development or wants to decide for self-government in matters of local development. It is, of course, up to us, colleagues, to base our assessment of such an important law on the knowledge of the practice and opinion of experts, and to prefer an agreement over such an important law intended for all citizens of our country and having an impact on the authorisation of constructions, thereby mediated to the labour market, the economy, the construction segment and so on, before using the submitted torso of this law as a marketing product serving individuals before the elections. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u67	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr František Kopřiva will now appear, Mr Sadovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, my amendment has a brief explanation, but I can see that the colleague who will appear after me is already fully prepared here. My amendment concerns the review and decision-making of the disputes of the planning treaties. The proposed bill envisages assessing the compliance of the planning contracts with the legislation and deciding the disputes arising from them will be the Supreme Construction Authority. This structure is clearly inspired by the regulation of public contracts in the administrative order, without taking into account the difference between public contracts and planning contracts within the meaning of the proposal submitted. While, in the case of a public contract, it is always at least one party - and mostly both - to a public authority acting out of its supreme authority, the planning contract is much closer to a classic private arrangement and one of its parties will always be a person of private law. Consequently, a superior administrative body, the Supreme Building Office, but a civil court, should not decide on disputes in the planning agreement. Nor is it appropriate, from the point of view of the efficiency of public administration, to burden a newly established office with national competence, which in some cases will be more of a negative character. The Agenda for Planning Contracts would also burden administrative courts due to the need for a possible judicial review and, given that the draft law does not exclude appeals, also the Ministry of Regional Development. That is all, then, and I will sign up for my amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u69	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Petr Sadovský, Mr Richter will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u70	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues. My amendment to the amendment consists in adjusting the requirements for the transmission of data arising from the land-use planning activity. They are made in electronic version or in machine-readable format including spatial data as well as in vector form. At the same time, we propose that territorial measures should also be drawn up in a uniform standard as a binding spatial planning instrument with a significant territorial average. This adjustment is incorporated into paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. At the same time, paragraph 3 extends the government's scope of standards to the geodetic reference system, which determines spatial localisation of individual data. [[11.40 hours]] At point two, I respond to the fact that it concerns measures of a larger territory. In this case, another map of a more appropriate scale can be used, and not just a cadastral map, as has been defined so far. That is basically all and I will sign up for the amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u71	Thank you. Mr Jan Richter, Mr Kalous will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to present to you here my amendment, which aims to include the parking space for motor vehicles and trailers among the simple constructions defined in Annex No. 2 of the government's design of the construction law, while complementing the relevant entries of Sections 229 and 242 of the proposal in such a way as to make it clear that these simple constructions will, unlike most other simple constructions, be collaborating and will not be subject to a simplified use regime. As part of the promotion of tourism in the Czech Republic, it is also necessary to support the construction of places primarily intended for parking, overnighting and service of residential cars and caravans and are equipped with adequate infrastructure, in particular water, sewerage and electrical connections. These places are then used both by foreign tourists who pass through the Czech Republic and would like to stay here for a day and night while visiting interesting tourist places in their immediate surroundings as well as within the domestic form of travel. These places are widely distributed abroad, and their current number in Europe is around 10,000. They are most commonly referred to abroad as stellplatzy or caravan parkings and their legislation and requirements for them are generally enshrined in the legal systems of the countries concerned. However, there are still no solutions to this question in the Czech legal order, which creates some practical problems such as confusing these standings with accommodation facilities and their associated obligations, complex building procedures - permits, setting requirements for such construction and its approval, placing these buildings in the territory and the related difficult announcement of subsidy programmes and their drawing in this area. The need for regulation of this issue also arises from the development of this phenomenon and the necessary regulation of certain events associated with it, such as the possibility of overnighting residential cars and trailers only in reserved locations, which many foreign states also approach. This is also linked to the necessary development of an adequate infrastructure for which a legal framework needs to be established. The very definition of the concept, or the specification of the requirements for construction, parking for motor vehicles and caravans, and the definition of the rules for the location of such a building in the territory, however, should be made in the light of the structure of the construction regulations of our legal order by the relevant Ministry, or it is necessary to introduce this concept in the relevant implementing decrees prepared for the design of the new building law or amendment of the existing decree. In terms of structure of buildings - small, simple, reserved, other buildings - according to the government design of the construction law it is also appropriate to carry out the classification of this construction into one of the above categories. Since this is a construction which is similar to other simple constructions as defined in Annex No. 2 government draft building law, e.g. Rechargeable stations, technical infrastructure connections and so on, are proposed to include it in this category, including the conditions for the implementation of constructions associated with this category. I thank you for your attention and will sign up for this amendment in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u73	Thank you. Mr Adam Kalous will now appear, Mr Výborný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I am very pleased that we are moving again with the recodification of building law, especially because it is a complex change of legislation, which the Czech public and all builders have been waiting for for for many years. I would like to thank the Ministry of Regional Development, the Minister and her entire team, because I see a great deal of work done on this. A consensus has been sought, and I believe we are approaching it. I come to the proposal with several amendments, which, although in various details but important, further improve the legislation under discussion. So please allow me to comment briefly on my fundamental proposals. Amendment 7934 is therefore intended to maintain legal certainty in the territory at a time when, for example, a territorial plan or a change in the territorial plan is attacked or abolished by a court, which is important for the predictability of the law and its application in the territory. This is an important moment not only for builders but also for self-government. The purpose of the territorial study is to examine the possibility of using territories that are often used by municipalities to verify and find a consensus on how to specifically implement the territorial plan. A registered study may be derogated only if the derogation is justified. The territorial study therefore deals with what it can be and how it can be in the territory and is one of the prerequisites for decision-making. It is therefore absurd not to allow it to be used in situations where, for example, a court repeals the municipal planning or part thereof for formal misconduct or if, for any reason, the municipality simply does not approve the zoning plan at all or approve it in time. It is crucial for maintaining the basis for decision-making and legal certainty of the territory. The amendment under number 7935 is a specification of the legal definition of the apartment's living room. The current construction requirements do not allow compact cities to be built, however in the public interest, but they force virtually solitary houses to be built, according to which Prague's districts, such as Vinohrady, could never arise today. It is therefore necessary to set construction requirements so that cities are not individual houses in the field. This is against all the principles that are being oppressed today and with regard to environmental protection, the economy of the city and its social dimension, such as urbanism and so on. So judge for yourselves where you want to live and what place the citizens will finance from their taxes. In Amendment 7936 and then in the alternative in proposal 7937, this is an automatic decision, it reflects the effort not only to accelerate the authorisation process, but also the real protection of the parties from the illegal inactivity of the authorities. We often talk about deadlines here, but let's talk about deadlines, because the term "by when" is important for the inhabitants of the Czech Republic throughout the process. This amendment effectively offsets the position of citizens and authorities. It has so far been true that while the authorities had deadlines that were hard to enforce, citizens had deadlines that they had to do something about, and if they didn't, sanctions followed. Like the authorities concerned, they have new clear deadlines, so the construction office must have them. This may be ensured either by measures against inactivity in the form of a transfer of activity from a prime agency to a superior authority which is obliged to re-examine and issue and/or refuse, or by penalties or compensation for damage, the enforcement of which must also be proportionate to the size of the refund. The state, in the sense of key basic constitutional principles, is supposed to provide services to citizens, in this case, as a builder. Amendment 7938 fully reflects the principle of the office, which is here for citizens, not the other way around. I propose here the obligation of the Authority to tell the applicant for authorisation if there is a legitimate objection in such a way as to save the time and costs of both the state and the builder and not to have to reopen the case. To set a specific example. The Authority will tell the builder that he has a poorly calculated transport, for example, and will therefore reject the application submitted - without the opportunity of the builder to comment on the objection. The proposal complements the building authority's obligation to instruct the builder and to comment on the preliminary conclusion of the construction office that the application for authorisation of the project cannot be complied with or is possible only under certain conditions which it must inform him of. [[11.50 hours]] Amendment 7939 substantially corrects the risk of legal discountability of the legal environment in the case of Prague construction regulations. Continuity of legislation is crucial for construction in Prague. Therefore, it would be unfortunate to automatically abolish the existing standard by new legislation. This means that this proposal makes it possible to maintain the continuity of the legal standard until its new form is prepared, in this case the Prague construction regulations. Amendment 7940 concerns the issue of noise. It follows the Constitutional Court's finding and responds to the number of problems that are caused by current legislation imposing physical, technical or economically completely impossible demands on buildings. At the same time, it does not allow measures to be taken to reduce noise. It is therefore proposed to apply the legislation which can be applied in practice. What, then, does this point specifically concern? The modification of noise protection should be made as a requirement for building protection against noise in the protected internal but not in the outdoor area of the construction. Amendment 7942 is intended to enable projects which require adaptation on the basis of technical requirements for constructions which may change over time, which are not in most cases taken into account in the development of a regulatory plan. The newly supplemented provision allows a derogation from the conditions set out in the regulatory plan, if necessary or enforced in the light of the requirements of legislation which correspond to the content of the documentation for the authorisation of the intention, is therefore more detailed than the conditions set out in the regulatory plan. In such cases, the administrative authority should itself assess the need for a derogation and, if it concludes that a derogation from the regulatory plan in the present case is necessary, it should be able to do so and to authorise it. Without this exception, it could not allow the intention until a change in the regulatory plan has occurred, which would lead to considerable delays in the authorisation of projects, in many cases up to years. In Amendment 7943, it is an attempt to remove a completely nonsensical design so that two authorities judge each other for permission. Authorities have completely different solutions for similar situations and the aim of the legislation presented should not be to further burden the courts. It is not possible for a builder to start construction and in the meantime the authorities began to judge. We can't gamble like this. The resorts will conduct their gestures methodically, leading officials due to the content of agendas. The resolution of mutual disputes between the authorities should not be passed on to the courts, they must be dealt with by internal processes. Amendment 7944 deals with access to land. That's very important from my point of view. My proposal corrects the situation where all real estate connections would have to be directly from municipal communication and does not allow, for example, a shared privately managed driveway to family homes. If we had not repaired it, the municipalities would not have either allowed the construction of the house or taken responsibility for financing maintenance even if the owner voluntarily paid the access costs itself or composed more users on the basis of a material burden. Amendment 7949 adds to the law an accelerated procedure for the acquisition of changes in land-use planning documentation which do not require the processing of variants of solutions. The essence of the accelerated procedure is to delete the entire phase of procurement and to discuss the assignment of a change of land planning documentation. In the accelerated procedure, the decision on the acquisition of the change is accompanied by the approval of the so-called content of the change, which replaces the formalised award, and therefore it is possible to proceed immediately thereafter to the opening of the acquisition and discussion of the draft amendment. In heading 7951, I seek to ensure that in cases where a territorial study for the territory of the municipality is not carried out by the municipality itself, but by the local planning authority, at least the minimum continuity and awareness of the municipality's procurement through a designated representative's institute is ensured, as is the case with the local planning authority for the municipality. By proposal number 7966, I am equalizing the position of the builder and the owner of the building in the court proceedings against the decision of the building office. It is pointless that in an ongoing proceeding involving a construction worker, so that the builder is not an equal party to the proceedings. Another amendment 7967 complements the rule that if a court grants a suspensive effect to the action, it is obliged to decide on the action itself with the highest speed up. Finally, the purpose of Amendment 7997 is to simplify the authorisation process for small-scale builders, specifically for individuals, in meeting their housing needs, when the proposed amendment aims at simplifying the authorisation process in relation to so-called mobile homes, mobileheims. These are houses of a small scale and simplifying their use especially as permanent holiday homes. Dear colleagues, as you can see, and the amendments tabled by me are small, but they have not only their merits, but above all, they are further precise about the standard presented. I will then sign up for all these amendments in a detailed debate, and I am already asking you at the right moment to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u75	Thank you. One apology. Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes for today's meeting from 11.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Marek Výborný will now appear, Mrs Fialová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u76	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, my dear colleagues, my colleagues, I would like to start by joining in with this proposal, which Martin Kupka has already made and justified before me. It is the result of our work, which goes across the democratic opposition together with colleagues from Pirates and STAN and colleagues from ODS, from TOP 09 and us, KDU-ČSL Members. We are really here with the Minister on one thing that the Czech Republic and builders in the Czech Republic need new, modern, fast, simple building regulations. We are clearly in agreement on that. Unfortunately, we believe that the path chosen by the Minister, despite the modification of the government hybrid, through the amendment of Mr Kolovratník, who has been pushed here, does not lead to the goal, unfortunately, but leads somewhere back and will not bring back what is promised to us in the finals, notabene will lead to the de facto expansion of the model of the mixed public administration. This connected model, which was created here more than 20 years ago at the time of the formation of the regions, and even then, and I was the honored colleague, then the captain of the South Moravian Region Stanislav Juránek, today confirmed and said: When they asked one of the captains how long it would take to complete application of the connected model of public administration, so he said, 20 years. At the same time, he said, "In 20 years, somebody's gonna start disassembly." Unfortunately, Madam Secretary, if you would like to or if you were to assert your form, which is so strongly reserved by the regions, but also by the municipalities and cities, you are really going to do here the destruction of something that has worked here for 20 years, or since the 19th century, when we take the history of public administration in Czechoslovakia and in the countries of the Czech Crown. I don't think it's a reasonable journey, notabene will carry huge costs - financial costs, personnel costs. [[12.00 hours]] I don't know if the Prime Minister knows to this day that his government will have to have at least 13,000 new tables under service law. He, who said and said that not one official under the service law, so only by this law, Prime Minister, look for at least 13,000 officials you will need. New offices will be created, the real threat here is that the construction process will stop for a certain time, perhaps for a few years. I think that there are so many risks that it is completely unnecessary to follow this path, and that is why we - we say this from the beginning and when we negotiate with you, that we want a quick, simple, modern digital building process - have prepared a proposal which, although the House refused at first reading, but we bring its essential features, a substantial part of it, we bring even now at second reading. The key - this has already been discussed by colleague Martin Kupka - is indeed process integration. If we can go through process integration, we declare that we are ready to look at the result that will be here in the third reading and consider, but this is the key thing that process integration will lead to speed. Constructions will be allowed on average in 90 days, for the simpler ones it will be 60, for the more complex ones 120. We're not resigning that there's supposed to be some central authority here. We agree with that, too. Here we are probably in agreement and we see that this is mainly the way for large infrastructure buildings to speed up the construction of, for example, transport infrastructure. We consider this important and, at the same time, we will remove the current construction offices, which, to be honest, have a lot of problems with this, and we do not blame them. So much in brief, then. At the third reading, we will still discuss this very closely. I will also return to the issue of the public administration's expansion, which is being prepared. At the moment, I am also expressing clear support for us, for the KDU-ČSL MEP, for our joint proposals, and at the same time, because there were a number of important things in this House rejected by our group's comprehensive amendment, let's say, individualities, but important, so we took the liberty of preparing a whole series of amendments. The system is loaded under the name of a colleague of Martin Kupka. We also apply to them individually. I would like to present and justify two of these proposals in the second reading. The first concerns the issue of expropriation, which is dealt with in the design of the construction law. We understand that expropriation is a very fundamental intervention in the constitutionally protected right of ownership. In this sense, we think that any such action cannot be taken lightly, even if it is conducted in the public interest. The proposal, as presented today, in the wording of Mr Kolovratník's parliamentary proposal, makes it possible to expropriate in general public interest. We believe that this needs to be narrowed down here and left there only public, transport or technical buildings within public, technical or transport infrastructure. There, indeed, this instrument can be the only one that can ensure continuity of the building management and construction itself, because, of course, when we take it - colleague Kolovratník likes to devote himself to Czech rams and rams in general - railway, so the track is, of course, in some way designed, it is not possible to change the technical measures ad hoc, the line of the track itself, so we can imagine it there and it is important to have this tool also within the construction process. But we are not convinced that there should be expropriation in the public interest in the case of, for example, civil amenities, public spaces and the like. There the municipalities, whether municipal, municipal or regional, must go in the standard way that they redeem, exchange, acquire in any other legal way, but not by taking this very radical step that interferes with each person's constitution of protected rights, and that is the right to ownership. In this sense, we are therefore proposing an amendment to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate, i.e. leave only the construction of transport and technical infrastructure, namely those under letters C and D in Section 10 (1). 1. The second proposal concerns another material, and these are territorial studies. We believe that territorial studies as important ground materials for the territorial development of the municipality, but also the regions should also be subject to the decision of representatives, or elected representatives of citizens of that territory. Representatives should be able to control how territorial planning documentation will then be formed on the basis of a territorial study. Therefore, in our amendment, we propose that a regional study taken by the Regional Authority approve the Regional Council, as well as that of the municipality's territorial study, the city's approval of the municipal council. Indeed, this is the institution, elected by citizens, where the principle of subsidiarity is respected, so that they can control the development of the territory. A third proposal, which I would like to apply to, has been put into the system and prepared by a fellow Member, Mr Jiří Mihola. This is, say, a minor but very important regulation, which concerns primarily forest nursery operators. Jiří Mihola presents a proposal adjusting certain provisions of the construction law in relation to forest kindergartens or clubs. Forest kindergartens are a kind of kindergarten, which is now defined in the school law due to the credit of a colleague named Jiří Mihola, who has been doing this in the long term both in this and in the previous parliamentary term. The training in them is mainly carried out in outdoor areas outside the nursery school, yes, it is clear from the name of the forest kindergarten. This background must not, according to the school law, be a construction - and now we are getting to the invasion of the building law - which is usually interpreted as being a product fulfilling the function of the construction, but not building connected with the ground. It is therefore proposed that, given the nature of the forest kindergartens, their facilities may also be placed outside the built-up areas, such as ecological or information centres. So we're not here to create a new segment, but we would assign a forest kindergarten to these buildings of ecological or information centers. It is also proposed that the background of a forestry kindergarten, which is a product fulfilling the construction function and does not have an additional housing or recreation function, should be regarded as a so-called minor construction. This can be placed without appropriate permission, however only in accordance with the construction law and planning documentation. Similarly, smaller structures for hunting are considered small structures. Here I would also like to ask for your support, which is a support for small things, but to those who run forest nursery schools, and especially to families who send their children to these forest nursery schools, we will make it much easier for them to exist. So many amendments. Thank you then in the third reading for their support and I will remind you again when we are before the key vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u77	Have a nice noon. Mrs Eva Fialová will now be speaking in the general debate. Mr Bendl has checked out, which means that Mr Pavel Jelínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a nice noon. I would like to introduce to you my three amendments, which are always connected with my person in some way with environmental protection and follow up on some of the provisions adopted by the Economic Committee and aim mostly to protect the landscape and spread to the free countryside or, where appropriate, some protected sites. The first proposal is Amendment 7601. In Section 39, the comprehensive amendment to the Government's proposal complements the tasks of territorial planning explicitly requiring the definition of development areas for industry and agriculture, with the task of spatial planning to ensure the consistency of public and private interests in terms of sustainable development of the territory. The preference of economic development and the security of sufficient areas for industry and agriculture is an unsolicited distribution of territorial planning tasks and I consider it unnecessary in this case. [[12.10 hours]] Another amendment under number 7603 is the release of only the letter E, which sets out a new definition in Section 116, where it defines the land included in the built-up territory, when, contrary to the government's design of the construction law, the newly inserted letter C, which includes in the built-up territory as well as other fenced arches between the built-up construction land. This design seems very logical, but what can happen in practice, especially within protected areas, that the prolusion is not clearly defined by the construction law and is not determined and is not the maximum distance between built-up construction land, therefore it can be any. In practice, it will mean that large-scale natural areas such as meadows, pastures, grassed land, which are, for example, fenced, but such as pastoral fences or anti-entry fences, especially from scattered mountain buildings in specially protected areas, will allow this change to include areas which are definitely not of the nature of the built-up area, not even areas currently stopable, and, above all, to perform a completely different function. In addition, areas with natural value, meadows, pastures, permanent grasslands with specially protected species of plants or animals may be included. The proposal for this amendment is completely contrary to one of the objectives of the recodification, i.e. the protection of the free landscape against unjustified stopping. And the last of the amendments concerns § 115 para. 5 which, contrary to the Government proposal, removes the need for the opinion of nature protection authorities to exclude the impact of the superior and downstream planning documentation or its changes on the subject matter of protection or the integrity of a European major site or avian region. Avoiding repeated assessment of the territorial planning documentation at different levels of the hierarchy is an instrument of Directive 2001/42 of the European Community on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment, the so-called SEA, not Directive 9343 of the European economy on the conservation of natural habitats of wild fauna and flora, which, on the contrary, explicitly states the obligation to assess any plan which may have a significant impact. Therefore, the wording of § 115 para. 5 contained in the comprehensive amendment represents a contradiction with the Habitats Directive, the failure to assess plans, the inconclusiveness of possible excluded effects on the territorial planning documentation following, as it contains more detail. Moreover, this wording contradicts the logic of gradual refinement of both the use of surfaces, corridors and the effects it brings and therefore cannot obtain relevant information. I will sign up for my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u79	I now call on Mr Pavel Jelínek to speak and Mr Petr Dolínek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law that is really demanding and, after the Civil Code, perhaps the second most legislatively complex law in our country. According to a World Bank Doing Business study from 2019, the construction authorisation process in the Czech Republic is one of the slowest in the world. According to the length of the standardised construction procedure, the Czech Republic has been placed in 156th place from 190 evaluated countries with a length of 246 days. We really don't have anything to be proud of here. We are moving among the African states at a speed of dealing with building permits, which I think is an absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable place for Central European democracy. Of course, not only does the Czech Republic solve problems in the complexity of the legislation of public building law and the length of authorisation processes. The majority of European countries are struggling, as are we, with a high degree of fragmentation and the resortive predestinability of public administration, the unequalness of public administration at the level of the community, the region, the states. These countries have been looking harder and harder to find a way to make this system more effective and efficient. In this government proposal, many of these things are being dealt with. When working in a working group on this legal standard, we put emphasis on the SPD to create a law that will not only speed up the construction process, but will bring a great deal of digitalisation and transparency. Part of the law deals with the course of construction proceedings and the organizational structure of construction offices. In this part of the SPD law requires a clear and pragmatic description of the processes for individual construction proceedings. As well as the different types of construction procedures set out, we ask that it be clearly described how these construction procedures will be carried out in a process, how the components of the construction offices and other bodies concerned will be expressed about them, in what terms and with what outputs. Of course, it is impossible to achieve an acceleration of building management without clearly described building management processes in the information system of building procedures. It is important for a citizen to accelerate the construction process and the associated positive benefits, which are mainly the acceleration of construction with a reduction effect, or at least a halt to the growth of housing prices. It is important for our citizens to be able to obtain housing that corresponds to their income, without outrageous debt for practically a productive life. It is also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the level of building permits remains below the historical average and regulatory barriers to new construction are increasing the pressure on the price of real estate. Problems persist mainly in the context of the enforcement of contracts, the acquisition of building permits and the complexity of the tax system. The Czech Republic has placed relatively high on the ranking of countries in terms of ease of business - 30th place of 190 is not so bad. It has ranked 1st in the category of foreign trade, but, on the other hand, in the category of enforcement of contracts and the processing of building permits, we are among the worst in the European Union - 91st in the 127 considered is not in line with our country. Following this information, another very important area, on which the SPD emphasizes, is the transparency of the building procedure. The maximum degree of digitisation of the construction process can be enhanced by transparency in the course of the construction procedure. At any time, the building must have a clear overview of the state of the application, which the official is working on a specific part of the application and how long the part of the application has been completed, including information on the legal deadlines for the handling of the individual parts of the building procedure. In part of the tenth law describing offences, we want to protect citizens from excessive fines in the case of civil construction. While we understand the principle of uniformity of fines according to the offence carried out, we still cannot impose fines for large developmental construction at the same level as for the construction of a family house or garage, so the scope of the fines must be adjusted not only according to the size of the construction, but according to who is the investor himself. If he's a regular citizen, he can't really be the same fine as for a big development project. Such winding-up provisions must be adapted so that citizens are not threatened with disproportionate fines and, where appropriate, execution procedures in order to deal with housing. That is why we are proposing an amendment in this part of the law. [[12.20 hours]] In its proposed wording, the Government's design of the construction law does not distinguish the amount of fines for natural persons, natural persons and legal persons in the event of an offence. However, it is very appropriate to distinguish which person it is. The proposed provision of the amendment alleviates the diction of the law in the sense that it takes into account the nature of the person subject to sanctions. Therefore, for a natural person, its personal circumstances should be taken into account, in particular in terms of its overall financial situation and the like, because we do not consider it appropriate to impose sanctions similar to those of a legal person with sufficient financial background. The upper limit, if... they're raised to double in the design compared to the current state. In many cases, the fine imposed on a natural person may thus be completely liquidated and put such a builder in an unsolvable situation. It is also desirable, given the educational effect of the sentence, that the builder should feel the strength of the penalty adequately, which is diametrically different for a natural or legal person. We consider it desirable to determine the type of administrative penalty and to determine the amount of the business of both the natural person and the legal person with regard to the specific activity of the person remaining, in particular because the object of its activities can be very distant from the construction sector. According to Article 15 of Law No. 250/2016 Sb. the responsibility of the natural person for the offence is required to be culpable. Here it can be assumed that the person does not have practical experience in the complex issue of building proceedings and that this needs to be taken into account when imposing sanctions in such proceedings. I ask you to support this amendment, as a priori cannot be considered a sufficient degree of differentiation between the perpetrators of administrative offences as legal persons and self-employed persons on the one hand and the natural persons on the other hand by the mere general application of Act No. 250/2016 Coll., the so-called Criminal Code. As a necessary modification of the construction law for the SPD we also propose to reduce the fees for permit housing, construction of family houses and buildings of garages and wine cellars. The Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the construction law provides for high administrative fees. The construction process itself is very administratively demanding. These high fees cannot in any way be improved by the share of administrative fees in the total cost of the state administration in the exercise of construction law. The share of administrative fees and fines on total costs oscillates on average from 46,3 in 2015 to 57,1 % in 2016 and 42 % in 2017. The draft law cannot count on a greater degree of coverage of the total costs, since builders could view this increase as another obstacle to the already demanding construction process. Therefore, we propose to reduce certain charges for the most common types of permanent housing or ordinary recreational housing. It is actually the support of ordinary citizens and their families in securing or adjusting their housing. The reduction of these charges can be seen as a reduction of barriers to the implementation of family housing and to facilitate the implementation of such buildings with the final result of an increase in the number of family housing buildings. We are convinced under the SPD that the new building standard will bring the expected benefits and speed up the construction process, make the construction process more transparent and bring more comfort to the builders during the construction process. We will support this law for the SPD, and I ask you to support the amendments that are inserted in the system under the numbers 7324 and 7325 for further support to the builders. They are sufficiently described and justified in the text of the amendments, and I am still going to sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u81	I will now ask for Mr Petr Dolínek's speech and Mr Josef Kott will prepare himself. Mr Petr Dolínek is not, so this does not mean that he is not in the bench, perhaps he is in the lobby, which is why I have given room, but when I hear the feedback here, I will ask Mr Josef Kott to speak and prepare Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, I have only recorded this amendment in the system this week, because I have recognised that the amendment to the Law on Land surveying would not have to be completed during this parliamentary term, and since this amendment is in accordance with or has to do with the law of construction, I have taken the liberty of reading it to this House press. And a very short explanation. The aim of this amendment is to include verification of the results of the survey work between the selected activities under construction, due to the coherence of this activity with those relating to the construction law. The aim is not to limit authorized persons, but to guarantee the builder, because the survey engineer is on the basis of Act No. 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying, as amended, guarantor of data on the spatial location of the building, including property law relations in the territory and the course of the underground technical infrastructure, which is necessary to demonstrate implementation in accordance with the permission of the digital technical map management, but also for future incoming challenges such as data modeling, digitization of building management, information modelling of buildings and built-up environment, where the veto is guaranteed as a prerequisite. The verification of the results of the survey activities under construction is therefore proposed as a new selected activity under construction with reference to their definition in the Law on Land surveying. And in short, the expression of the Gestator of Law No. 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying. The Czech office of survey and cadastral repeatedly discussed with the Ministry of Regional Development the need to link the legislation of land survey with selected activities under construction regulated by the construction law. Agricultural activities under construction, the results of which are subject to verification pursuant to Section 13 (1) (a). (c) Law No 200/1994 Coll., on Land surveying, fully fulfills the general characteristics of the selected construction activities, as their result undoubtedly affects the protection of public interests under construction. Therefore, I consider the proposal to supplement Section 155 by letter (c), which is to verify the results of land surveying activities under construction, and to supplement the reference to the Law on Land surveying as an appropriate solution. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u83	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now appear and Mr Ondřej Profant will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, allow me, too, to comment on the construction law and the changes that we are promising to make for the better. I would like to say that, of course, a construction law designed to simplify citizens' lives, but at the same time, it meant accelerating construction not only of key buildings in the country, but also of housing construction, which is a big task for me. I think that this is a task which, of course, is particularly worthy of a government proposal, which is why I will not, as a lawyer and legislature, deny here at the plenary of the House and notabene before the Minister that I am not happy about the confusion of amendments and complex amendments here in the House. As much as I respect the rapporteur and colleagues of Kolovratník and his abilities are undoubtedly extraordinary, such things are not to arise on his knees and are to be a real government legislation from A to Z. I would also like to remember, because I think it is appropriate, Dr. Kadečka, who participated in the original proposal and tried to connect as a professional what I have noted, almost unconnected, that is, simplifying things for the citizen in terms of building permits, accelerating important transport structures in the country, and also making new housing work in our country as we deserve it as citizens, so that we all have the chance to have the opportunity of living, living available. It turned out the way it did. We are in a situation where dozens of amendments are being loaded, complex amendments, the question is what will eventually be approved by the House. Of course, that in itself is extremely risky. [[12.30 hours]] For the greatest weakness as a person who has long been in the field of public administration, and in this role we have long known Mrs Dostálová, and we have had the opportunity to work professionally and professionally together on important issues of public administration in recent years or decades, so I personally consider it a big mistake to see the regions fall by this law. Their role in building law falls and, of course, they are also regions whose voice was least heard or rather heard. And let's pour some pure wine, ladies and gentlemen, this is also the fall of a mixed public administration model. In itself, this goes beyond the extent and scope of the debate and the seriousness of the debate, which would otherwise concern the quotation marks of the ordinary building law. We therefore risk the uncertain outcome of building authorisation, which will ultimately be approved, that the key objectives that we have set ourselves and which are ambitious, which the Minister for Local Development has long sought, will not be met, and that, on the contrary, there will be a significant slowdown in the approval of buildings for ordinary citizens. We here, through the amendments, appreciate a huge number of particular interests of various influence groups, and we must also acknowledge that the whole system is becoming very expensive against the original proposal of the Ministry for Regional Development, and, as I have said several times, also risky. I must trust the promises of the Minister for Regional Development that we will arrange voting procedures here in the House and we will have a clear goal, as I have said here several times, to simplify the lives of citizens, to accelerate the construction of key infrastructures, including transport and acceleration and a significant increase in housing. I would also like to mention the issue of the amendment law. Here I confess that I was very upset - I lack here colleagues of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of the Environment, especially my colleague Brabec, it is suspicious that he is not lurking. This in itself - I do not want to speculate - means that he was probably not completely satisfied either, and he decided that if he could not praise him, he would rather keep quiet. The Minister of Culture didn't shut up, you had a chance to hear that, colleagues and colleagues. However, in order to reassure environmentalists and protectors of our monument care, our national identity, we have finally reached adjustments which, as I have been informed, Mr Kolovratník and another group of Members have accepted, and I believe that we will again be assured here on the counter that the issue of conservation of conservation and environmental protection and the issue of interest has returned to the form of the original government proposal and agreements with the Minister for Regional Development, because it cannot be resigned to conservation, conservation and environmental protection. And I guess no one could expect this voice to sound the way it sounds today and at this point in the House. Finally, I want to say that this is a big change, and I think that more than ever it is: Less is more. I therefore call on both the Minister for Regional Development and the rapporteurs: Let us stick to this task from a broad political consensus point of view, because it certainly has more value in maintaining the long-term new rules of construction law, these matters in further discussions in the committees, but also in the final vote in the House that awaits us. Thank you, then, for the preservation of conservation and conservation of the environment at least to the extent of the previously negotiated environmental ministers and the Minister of Culture. And please, at least in the case of the amendment law, let us maintain a sufficient level of understanding, let us not weaken the agreed version of changes in individual component laws and proposals, which are repeatedly imposed on us not by citizens and other groups, which do not see in the building law, above all, the protection of public interests, and the harmonisation not only of interest in the speed and quality of building management, but also of course the protection of public interests such as environmental protection and conservation of conservation of conservation. Madam Secretary, rapporteur, I will closely monitor the end of the construction law. Once again, I would like to thank Dr. Kadeček, who really contributed to the uncooling of the uncool. And because he has unfortunately abandoned us, I believe that even in the sense of his memory, we will be careful that the construction law does not have a destiny that is simply not worthy of this name, and that we can still follow the fundamental principles of the new building right during the final procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u85	I will now ask Mr Ondřej Profant to speak and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u86	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear public, before I introduce my amendments, let me say, just to point out the real problem, why we are failing to have an elegant building process, one that will really serve citizens, citizens will be satisfied if I ask for a house, so officials will help me and at the end everyone will be satisfied. The real reason is the alibiism of resortism. The problem is that our public administration does not act as one whole that tries to solve problems, instead each part of it is alibiscally hidden within the enclosure of its competence. As a result, problems are not dealt with factually but bureaucratically. Well, I think we all know this, but it really needs to be pointed out that there is often a problem within one office to pick up the phone and agree on where the thing got stuck, how to move it forward. It may seem that one central office will solve this, but we do not have such experience with large central offices. I would like to mention, for example, the General Financial Directorate and its different decision-making practice in different regions and the like. If there is no will to remove this, no formal change will help us. We can draw any kind of process, any law, but if there's going to be a haunted resortism, and not an attempt to solve material problems, we're not going to speed it up. And now for the amendments that I am proposing. The first is House Document 8038, where § 131 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) I suggest we reduce the phrase "all steps" to "steps," without "all steps." This is the case where the intention cannot be implemented without prior publication of the land planning documentation. From the original text it could be concluded that they are committed to the council, which is, however, grossly contrary to the autonomy of these authorities, namely the principle of the free exercise of the mandate, when each member of the council or board is obliged to carry out his mandate in person and is not bound by any orders. And this commitment cannot be secured or enforced. By this phrase, by "all" steps, we would only confuse this and it could be the very reasoning that would be contrary to other laws, as I say here. [[12.40 hours]] My second amendment addresses a similar issue, it is House document 8039. This is a repeal of the rule that the municipality is bound by a planning contract, will not exercise its rights in administrative or judicial proceedings. This means once again, even if I conclude a planning agreement, I can't give up my rights - my rights, which means, as a community, of course, I have to defend the interests of citizens, especially if the planning agreement is some old one, the situation has changed and so on, I can't be tied to the fact that I can't solve problems by judicial means if the situation is ripe for it. This just doesn't work, it's against the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, with the right to judicial protection and so on. I think both of these things are clear. It is a kind of formulational misunderstanding, where the author has written himself out too wide, and it would only introduce some internal contradictions in our legal order, which would ultimately be decided by the caselaw of the courts, but would create unnecessary legal uncertainty. Then I have Amendment 8040. This amendment concerns compensation for change in the territory, i.e. where the land price is reduced by the owner. The proposal states that the refund will not be paid if the owner objects, but I do not think that it is possible again. This compensation is not some bonus, but a compensation for the damage actually incurred. That means we can't just say here that the damage wasn't done. Another amendment is my Amendment 8041, which concerns the resolution of the conflict between the local authority, that is, the council or the board, and the body concerned from the administrative order to the classic court regime, because we would not be much help from the administrative order here, because the nearest denominator would be the government and the dispute would be resolved by the government, which is probably not the purpose, rather this has not been given enough attention here. My second-to-last proposal is proposal 8042, where I propose that the activity of the provider of the planning documentation and its processor should not be combined. On the contrary, it is appropriate that the processor of the planning documentation is independent of the purchaser and thus avoids conflicts of interest. My last amendment is 8043, which talks about setting a single data standard for the digital processing of the object in the planning documentation. This is really important, it concerns a metropolitan plan in Prague, which is fully digitized, and would be a big problem according to the current text to approve it. So here, please, we don't want to prevent digitalisation. I understand that this may not concern many territories in the Czech Republic, that they simply do not have the technical means to process it fully digitally today, but there are local authorities that really have the land planning documentation fully digitally, and let us not threaten it, please. Thank you for supporting all the amendments. All of them are well-founded in this House document, so if you were to grope, everything is described exactly there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u87	Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear, Mr Petr Dolínek will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present two House documents, namely House documents 7605 and 8006. They concern the State Heritage Act. What is it, then? Since the institutional changes in the construction law and the amendment law 1009, were not linked to the real estate regulation section, which in itself are not cultural monuments, but are located in the protection zones of real national cultural monuments, real cultural monuments, conservation reserves or landmark zones, a state which lacks rational reasoning. The real estate regulation agenda, which means those in those zones, is designed to take over the regional construction authorities, but thus the public administration will be far removed from the citizens concerned. In doing so, the version of the construction law, which was submitted to the comments procedure, envisaged that this agenda would be dealt with at the level of the municipal authorities of the municipalities with extended scope, albeit no longer in the delegated scope. This should not jeopardise the availability of this agenda for public administrations. However, in the course of further discussions, the system for integrating the institutions concerned has recognised fundamental changes which have not been substantially reflected in the accompanying amendment law. To this end, it should be added that a small part of the civil servants of the municipal authorities of the ORP on the section of state conservation care is now included in the departments whose work is also the responsibility of the construction offices on the section of the construction order. The municipal authorities paid for the education of these officials, and it is nonsense to get rid of them because they will need them in the future. The next question is an independent review of any appeal. In such a case, the Regional Building Office will be the Board of Appeal and, at the same time, the primary body concerned. Therefore, in the context of the appeal procedure in the section of the public interest concerned, the Regional Authority cannot itself review its own conclusions. My amendments therefore, in the case of House document 7605, return decisions on this whole agenda to municipal authorities in municipalities with extended scope. The House document 8006 is then an alternative which returns the decision on this agenda to the municipal authorities of the ORP as regards immovable cultural monuments and as regards the power to issue measures of a general nature on the protection zone of national cultural monuments, conservation reserves and conservation zones. This amendment entrusts it to the regional authorities. This would be better in line with the concept of the State Heritage Act, according to which matters relating to national cultural monuments are under the jurisdiction of the Regional Authority. In addition, the competence of the Regional Authority is monitored here by the free continuity with the current text of § 17 para. 3 of the Act on Monument Care, according to which these protection zones are proposed by the Regional Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u89	Mr Petr Dolínek will now appear, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u90	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues, I am not going to evaluate the law as it was submitted by the Ministry, this has been done here in past negotiations. However, I would like to begin by saying that I am based on the fact that the Chamber of Deputies has approved some version of which we are to comment, and in this version I am now trying to make amendments. I am not transcending that what I am going to say here is a comprehensive view of social democracy, but it is a response to the needs of some larger communities and a response to other things that would be appropriate to change in this proposal. I also consider it necessary to emphasise that, for example, Mr Netolický as a social democracy and a number of other municipal politicians are still hesitating or having a different view of the construction law, but I think it is good that there was room, and Kolovratník often talks about it, that there was room and there is room to discuss it, to communicate and, within the majority will of Members, to try to amend the proposal at least in such a way that it is acceptable. I have some 17 or 18 amendments concerning these two laws that we are now discussing. The first series was created in cooperation with the capital city of Prague, mainly other cities. It is an amendment supplementing § 1 with explicit support for the integration of decision-making according to the construction law, expressed as an objective already in the substantive proposal, and supplementing paragraph 3 aimed at qualitative dimension in decision-making in accordance with the Davo Declaration and other Czech and European documents. [[12.50 hours]] Furthermore, the amendment under number 7615, which concerns the protection of public interests, and Article 2 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. Public interests have already been discussed and will certainly be further discussed. Furthermore, it is Amendment 7995. The public interest is supplemented by Article 72 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Territorial planning documentation is the final decision of a demanding administrative process involving the assessment of all protected public interests binding on further decision-making in the territory. The supplement strengthens the legal certainty for decision-making in the territory on the basis of the decisions taken. This is a very important matter precisely for the protection of the territory and for the certainty of the process. Then the amendment tabled today... or I submitted together with the Minister under number 8027, which concerns blue-green infrastructure. It's more or less a whole new concept that we're working with. It responds to fundamental things that have not been dealt with by law in recent years. Blue-green infrastructure: the amendment complements Section 10 on the definition of blue-green infrastructure and its elements and complements the possibility of setting requirements for blue-green infrastructure in the regulatory plan under Section 82. It is about establishing a generally used concept in the construction law and its integration into the public infrastructure system. It is practically about promoting adaptation to climate change in the environment of cities, capturing rainwater and its use in the place, organizational elements and natural cooling, linking with the care of the free landscape and, last but not least, an instrument to improve the quality of the residential environment of Czech cities and municipalities. It must be said that this has just been completed so that it does not apply only to the selective part of the territory of the Czech Republic, but to be applicable throughout the territory. Furthermore, we have Amendment 7619, which is the adequacy of the requirements. Paragraph 137 is added to the rule governing the appropriate application of the general requirements for construction on the basis of existing limits in the territory and the fulfilment of the general requirements is in conflict with other protected public interests, typically such as conservation buildings. So I expect there to be a discussion as to how this will be resolved, which design and how they will be compatible and used together. Then we have Amendment 7620, which is the support of municipalities, which is supplemented in § 137 by a similar rule for the application of general requirements for the definition of land and the location of buildings by way of derogation from the general regulation on the basis of specific local conditions in the municipal planning documentation. This is a fundamental adjustment to allow for a more detailed solution to territorial requirements with regard to the nature, size and needs of a particular municipality. Then we have Amendment 7621 - Nice cities. Here we adjust part four, building law material, by supplementing the basic general terms of material law, by anchoring them in the law. This is a fundamental prerequisite for creating a high-quality developed environment and a free landscape and, last but not least, it is a correction of the long-standing constitutional and legal deficits of current legislation, which does not provide support for the award and limits for detailed regulation of the concepts of substantive law under the law. It's complicated, but it's really about making the construction good and making sure it doesn't end up in court, but it's gonna be predictable again by law. Then we have Amendment 7623 - The institution concerned, where Section 175 on the status of the municipality as the institution concerned is added to the procedure for authorising a project under the right of a local authority to self-government, including the definition of the scope and regulation of the relationship by expressing the municipality's views on any other acts of the municipality as a party to the proceedings. This is a fundamental alignment of the position of the municipalities in the procedure for authorising a project guaranteeing the balance of the public interest of the protected community and, at the same time, of the public interest, which protects the authorities concerned on the basis of component laws. The last one in this set is Amendment 7624, which complements the lack of deadlines for the customer in the third planning part. The amendments were drawn up on the basis of four urban artifacts, which were often discussed, and are the result of more than two years of cooperation between the political representations of the five largest Czech cities, the Czech, Moravian, let me not touch anyone, even the Silesian ones, that is, Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň and Liberec, across the political spectrum of their professional institutions and a number of recognized experts in the field of building law and administrative justice, including consultations with the rapporteur of the Legislative Council of the Government, Dr. Vedral, Dr. Staša and Dr. Brož, and supplemented according to their comments. These amendments also support the Union of Towns and Municipalities and both professional chambers - the Chamber of Architects and ČKAIT - also support these proposals. Then I have another series of amendments. The first one is under number 7650. According to the proposed wording of the Construction Act, it is possible in accordance with § 320 para. 2 cancel the municipality's zoning plan issued before 1 January 2007 without compensation. In addition, according to Section 333 (b). (a) this provision shall take effect on the day following the publication of the law. It could therefore be that, in the event of the rapid approval of the new building law, which is the effort of part of the House, the documentation still in force by 2022 would cease to apply before it can be reasonably expected, which is inadmissible retroactivity and brings considerable uncertainty in legal relations. I therefore suggest that in § 333 letter. (a) has modified the effectiveness of § 320 para. The power of the municipal council, without compensation, to terminate the measures of a general nature, the territorial planning documentation of the settlement unit or zone, the municipal planning plan and the regulatory plan approved before 1 January 2007, would be determined only on the date of application of the construction law as a whole, i.e. from 1 July 2023. The municipalities will continue to be able to proceed according to § 320 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The point is that various construction proceedings are taking place in a number of municipalities, and of course the interest of the land owner is not always in line with the interest of the current council, for example, because the process was, is very long and there are some problems. And it could be that some municipalities could act as if I don't want to say account handling, but as a quick solution, it would be that they would actually do it with the land owner or investor, and that could also be a private person, we're not talking about big investments, because it doesn't concern Prague or the like, it's more like smaller municipalities, so that someone could solve it very quickly in principle with one vote. And the point is that it should be balanced so that both owners and investors - and I am talking about small ones, I am not talking about large ones - and municipalities have a balanced position in this case. This means that no one will be stolen from anything, but legal certainty will be expressed by this paragraph if it has been approved or these changes. I also have Amendment 7992. This applies to ground structures of technical infrastructure energy networks except collectors and distribution heat equipment. The proposed legislation of the construction law, as well as the existing legislation, is based on the principle that certain buildings are not necessary with regard to the purpose and purpose of the construction law and its protected public interests and can be used without a co-authorising decision. These are primarily small-scale constructions which are not subject to any authorisation under the proposed legislation. It is also assumed that for selected simple constructions it will not be necessary to use the housewarming decision. The final inspection as one of the tasks to be carried out by the construction office in connection with the installation will be crucially linked to the approval. This means that this is a simplification in this area. [[13.00 hours]] Then I have an amendment under number 7994 concerning the addition of my own telecommunications network to control the measurement of the security of the automation of the power system operation. The amendment aims to extend the list of small buildings in Annex No. 1 to the Telecommunication Network Act, which is used for the operation of technical infrastructure networks. This is not the public networks that I am talking about, but these are, for example, the internal ones that control their own elements, so it does not affect anyone else's interest. Furthermore, I have Amendment 7999, perhaps I did not say about the extra nine: in Section 14, the following point (h) is added: " (h) The supervision of the designer means the continuous professional supervision of the designer, or the persons appointed by him, over the compliance of the construction carried out with the project documentation." On this proposal, I have worked with the President, or whatever his name is, the chairman of the Chamber of Architects, and I will now explain in more detail what is going on there. The supervision of the designer, so far the author's supervision, is a specific form of supervision of the implementation of the construction, if in the draft law the need to specify the supervision of the implementation of the simple construction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u91	Ambassador, it's 13 o'clock, so you'll be free to take a break. I'm putting out an hour and a half. I apologise to Mr Výborný, because in the meantime it had a development because it was originally proposed an hour, but the Pirates' MP did not agree with the hour, so it will be an hour and a half, so I will see you here at 14.30, we will continue. I'm just pointing out that there's an organizational committee at 1:00. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u92	The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is 14.30. We will continue the interrupted merged general debate on both points. The debate was interrupted at the time of Mr Dolínek's speech. I ask the honourable Member whether he is interested in continuing his contribution. That's right, so, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u93	Thank you. I would also like to present the amendment 7276. This concerns the owner of the building and the establishment. I'm gonna repeat the beginning, and then I'm gonna say the reason. Sorry, sorry, it's this: 7999. In Section 14, the following point (h) is added: "The supervision of the designer shall mean the continuous professional supervision of the designer, or the persons appointed by him, above the compliance of the construction carried out with the project documentation. " As I said, it was prepared with the Chamber of Architects. This is the fact that the supervision of the designer, so far authorial supervision, is a specific form of supervision of the implementation of the construction. If in the draft law it is necessary to specify the supervision of the implementation of simple construction, construction supervision, defined in the letter. g), then the gap is that the supervision of the designer is not defined. The proposal also relates to the basic conceptual basis, which is the precise definition of the specific responsibilities of individual participants in the construction process. The concept of copyright supervision is not currently defined in Law No. 360/1992 Coll., on the pursuit of the profession of authorized designers and on the performance of called engineers and technicians active in construction, as amended. The provisions of Law No. 360/1992 Coll. only describe the scope of professional competence, but not the arrangement of performance by phase. We consider defining the concept and supplementing the law to be extremely important precisely with colleagues with whom I have prepared it, taking into account the definition of the personal responsibility of the designer, taking into account the requirements for a truly effective control of the construction activity. It is about the fact that the designer really prepares something, the building supervisor then builds it and in the finals the construction can look completely different, but we see in some cases that the designer is then examined by the police in case of some tragic situation or similar, while the designer was no longer present in the last stages. So it solves this problem, but I expect Mr. architect Kasl to turn to the Ministry and certainly discuss this amendment to what extent he could or could not possibly be there so as not to break other connotations again. Then we have Amendment 8033 in Annex 1, minor constructions, is inserted in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) a new point 22, including a footnote, allowances for existing construction of transport or technical infrastructure. The proposed legislation aims at reducing the costs of building public communications networks and accelerating the process of building public communications networks. The adoption of this legislation would also contribute to the faster achievement of the digitalisation of the public sector, which, in addition to reducing the costs of public administration and increasing the efficiency of services provided to citizens, would give digital leverage for all sectors of the economy. Then I have a proposal of 8004. In the case of an intention under this Act, which is the construction of a network of technical infrastructure under the Construction Act, the construction office may extend the period for the decision pursuant to Section 195 of the Construction Act by way of a resolution by up to 60 days in the case of proceedings with a large number of participants. We were already discussing this on the Economic Committee, where we had fun, that it was too strict and it would not have to be prosecuted. There was a slight modification in the text. We'll see how much more acceptable it will be to the Bureau or not. I consider this a good step, because, as it is said, every applicant must prosecute his/her time obligations, so that he/she should prosecute the office. It's actually limited here to the Bureau's need to make it, but I understand that we may still be discussing this in this discussion, whether it's manageable, but I strongly hope that in the case of mass matters, yes. Then I have - I suspect - the last two amendments, one is 7275, and that is in annex number 1 to the government's draft building bill, in paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the following point 21 is inserted after point 20: "Building up to 50 m of built-up area and up to 5 m of height with one above-ground floor in the public area or on land of public greenery and park, serving as social or other sanitary facilities for use by the public and in the context of technical installations." It is about simplifying the authorisation procedure for the location of public toilets and similar facilities in places where this is needed. In the discussion we had, I understand that someone is worried that they might be placed inappropriately. On the other hand, I think that in most prized parks, urban and so on, there is also supervision of environmental trade unions, conservationists and so on, so I'm not afraid that there would be abuse, because certainly in the process, even if it wasn't a building process, there will be room for those who protect the form of traditional parks, or landscapers would certainly see to it too, so that simplification, but I don't think it. [[unintelligible]] The last 7276, own buildings and installations, is added to point (e), which reads: "Insert by 1 January 2025 at least one charging station, if it is the owner of a building other than a housing building with more than 20 parking spaces, under the conditions laid down in the implementing legislation'. I'm not sure he's taken it up by any chance with the economic committee, but I'm gonna do it again just in case. The point is that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we support electromobility symbolically, for example, in the Highway Stamp Act, but unfortunately then in the very part of the investment or in the incentive possibilities of legalism we have not done so. In some cases, I have failed, and I hope that it could be here, because really for housing buildings for more than 20... with more than 20 parking spaces, those charging stations should already be the standard and I think that many investors are doing it, but it would be good to make it an obligation and not just a convenience. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u94	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mrs Kovářová to prepare Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u95	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, let me introduce you to several amendments. The first two, which is House document 8016 and 8017, are submitted together with Members Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Marek Výborný and Dominik Feri. The first amendment concerns the adjustment of the implementation of the corrective measures, where we propose that a range of situations be extended in which it will be possible to ensure the implementation of the ordered redress measures through a third party, i.e. a company, about the cases of necessary maintenance and adjustment. There is no reason to exclude these situations from the scope of the provision because, for example, the technical state of the construction can significantly threaten the surrounding area, and therefore the people, and thus it may be necessary to make a correction without delay and through a third party, i.e. some company. At the same time, we also propose that measures to remedy a third party should be awarded under the Public Procurement Act and this will not affect the speed, particularly the effectiveness of such a remedy measure, because this will be done either by a small-scale public contract or it will be possible to take a negotiated procedure without publication. The second point of this amendment is as follows. The original text disproportionately burdens third parties, i.e. those companies that implement corrective measures, by not providing them with the immediate reimbursement of their work by the construction office, but leaving it to the owner of the construction or the land on which, for example, the derelict construction can stand, and of course, it can be assumed that persons who do not voluntarily and on time comply with the measures will not correct the situation, that is, of course, to have a very reduced willingness to fulfil their debt voluntarily. For this reason, we also propose that the costs of implementing the ordered measure be reimbursed by the construction office to a third party. So much for the first joint amendment. [[14.40 hours]] The second amendment, also tabled with the above-mentioned Members, concerns the removal of black buildings. Who knows this from his practice, knows that this is a very complicated procedure, which, moreover, affects the budgets of municipalities, and this leads to the fact that, of course, the removal of black buildings is not entirely effective. Therefore, we propose and propose that the construction office be directly entitled, in the event of failure to act compulsory, that is to say, to remove the black building, and thus to ensure that the person ordered by the regulation to remove the construction is disposed of by means of a third party, as it is possible to remedy that measure. If they are maintained by the municipalities of the construction authorities in the delegated capacity, then it is proposed that the removal of the construction by a third party be ordered only with the consent of the Supreme Building Office and subsequently paid by the Supreme Building Office from its budget. We consider this to be very important and very helpful, precisely with regard to the complexity of municipal budgets. These were joint amendments. Now, let me present the amendment I am proposing, which concerns the establishment of territorial workplaces. The comprehensive amendment establishes regional construction offices as administrative authorities in all matters of the construction order. Paragraph 18 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: 4 counts on the establishment of regional construction offices, which are set by the Supreme Building Office by decree, taking into account the number of inhabitants of the administrative district of the local department and their transport accessibility. However, the proposed wording of the provision does not contain any specific rule for determining the density of the network of territorial workplaces. In extreme cases, the Supreme Building Office can set up only a few territorial workplaces in each region. It is speculated on the establishment of territorial centres in the territory of municipalities with extended scope. However, this step would cause the first-stage construction agencies to be far removed from the citizens of smaller municipalities, which could cause the flow of skilled workers from the regions, and of course this service would be far from the citizens. So we do not want to talk that this is directly related to rural depopulation, but it is precisely the loss of services in the countryside that is being recorded, and it is clear that where there is no service, there is no life. There are practically no arguments for the deterioration of the availability of building offices during the transition of the agenda to the full state administration regime. Moreover, the proposal does not address the personnel and logistical contexts of the change of the system of building offices, the need for both personnel and material, in particular the spatial equipment of the new building offices, which will require the change. Furthermore, it is not clear whether all employees from the municipal authorities who have so far exercised the authority of the construction office will be willing to commute to the places where these offices will be established and, of course, the cost of severance payments must be taken into account. Just for the record, you may have noticed a survey that says that the workers of the existing construction offices showed a willingness of 40 percent to switch to new local offices or other workplaces of this type, but the remaining almost 60 percent is not going to do so. Either 26 percent remain in place, i.e. with their current employer in a different job position, or 33 percent report that they will end their work and look for another job, and there we can really deal with the lack of workers at construction offices or territorial workplaces. At the same time, it is quite obvious that the abolition of nearly 400 municipal construction offices without their replacement, falling within the new system, will reduce the availability of authorities for citizens. Therefore, we propose, i.e. I propose not to leave the regional construction offices to the liking of the highest construction office, but to establish them by law in those municipalities where construction offices existed on 31 December 2020 and thus preserve existing administrative districts. That is the first amendment I am making myself. It is also possible with colleague Bartoš, and there it is in the alternative that we propose not to leave the establishment of regional construction offices to the libe of the Supreme Building Office, but to establish their establishment in the capital of Prague, in municipalities with extended application, in all municipalities with a municipal authority, including all municipalities which are also municipalities with extended scope, in municipalities whose municipal authorities exercised on 31 December the jurisdiction of the municipal authority and the number of inhabitants of their administrative construction office were higher than 8 500 on 31 December 2020, and in municipalities which ensure availability next to municipal construction offices as set out above, so that there is no distance from any municipality to the municipality where the regional construction office is established, more than 30 km. We also serve the third option together with our colleague Bartoš, so that the law provides for the establishment of territorial workplaces in all municipalities with extended scope, in all municipalities with a competent municipal authority and in the capital city of Prague. These were three proposals concerning territorial workplaces. And now there are two amendments that concern effectiveness, and I also submit with my colleague, Mr Ivan Bartoš. The proposal for a new building law constitutes a comprehensive recodification of building law and, as such, requires a sufficiently long period of legisvacation, during which recipients of legal standards from both private and public authorities adapt to a new legal state. If the material successfully passes the legislative process, the new law will be published in the collection around mid- 2021, when the part concerning the establishment of the Supreme Building Office and the entire system of new central offices would be effective as of 1. 1. 2022, less than half a year after the expected publication. From this point of view, the effectiveness of the entire law and its parts is as rapid and unprepared as the full course of the legislative process of this law. In view of the scale and the revolutionary nature of the proposed changes, even a two-year legisvacancy period, which is based on a government proposal and a comprehensive amendment, is disproportionately short. That is why we propose to shift efficiency by two years, to 1 July 2025, in the case of the wording of point B to 1 July 2024 and point C to 1 January 2025. The second option also concerns the shift of efficiency to 1 July 2024, in the case of letter B to 1 July 2023 and in the case of letter C to 1 January 2024. [[14.50 hours]] The last amendment, also tabled with a colleague of Mr Ivan Bartoš, concerns where regional construction offices would be located, and not planned in regional cities, but instead of České Budějovice could be in Tábor, in Pilsen we propose that he be in Klatovy instead of Karlovy Vary we propose Cheb and so on. Of course, the reasons are clear, we want such authorities to be deployed not only in the centres of individual regions, but also in smaller ones, so that there is the possibility of genuinely qualified work, and this amendment can accommodate this. Thank you for your attention and I will sign up to these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u96	I thank you, Madam, and I will ask Mr Marian Jurečka for a merged general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u97	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to make a few general remarks, although it has been said today, and then on one specific amendment. I have already spoken about this at the meeting of the Economic Committee, which has become, say, a very surprisingly guarantee committee, although it has not been in the past, it has always been a Committee on Regional Administration. The Economic Committee commented on the partial amendments to the legislation, which concerns the construction law, for example in the press, or in Act 416, on speeding up line construction, it was there, but the construction law - the guarantee committee was never an economic committee, which was a bit of a non-standard act, but I pointed out more that when such a complex legislative material makes a comment procedure in which such a huge number of amendments meet with such essential comments, it is common that the resort will, after the comments have been made, repeat once again that the main comment points should see the way in which the comments will be incorporated into the legislative text, as it will be reflected in the future into practice, and, if necessary, supplement their comments, which I am sorry that this did not happen. I understand the time pressure, on the other hand, the Ministry of Regional Development has been in the ANO movement for eight years now, and we have witnessed when Mrs. Minister, then Věra Jourová, said that they are preparing a new bill of construction. Then I remember here, in this place, right then, Minister Šlechtová said that she had already prepared a draft of a concrete new construction law in her bag. Since then, a lot of water has passed, we are catching up here, and in the last months of this term, it is certainly not a happy starting position for us to be able to do really high-quality building legislation here, which would fulfil what we all want - so that the building process is faster, so that it is easier to digitize, but at the same time not to endanger the key interests that we have here to protect, which are important, i.e. environmental interests, within cultural conservation, but also the interests of civil in terms of personal ownership, interpersonal, inter-neighbor relations and so on. So much for the introduction. I personally leaned to describe in the system the narrowest throats, the narrowest places, and say to myself. Let's remove these things in some way sensible, good evolution, that is, let's digitize it, fully digitize it as soon as possible, let's clearly limit the deadlines and the conditions under which the time limits must be observed, the situations in which the time limit can be extended, how it can be extended, and who subsequently resolves the appeals, or let's go down the path of really sophisticated specialized demanding buildings, so that there are clear competences, quality personnel backgrounds, to do this by the construction authorities, which really have the necessary conditions. Let's just really go through the analysis of the weaknesses of the current process, the current legislation to do positive evolution, not what is actually happening now, in this proposal that we have ahead of us, because it will be a big revolution, it will cost us a lot of money, and the fact that it will bring what we all expect is not entirely certain, and it can mean that even for a year, two, three, we will be living here in an intermediate period, when the building process will slow down even more for various reasons, from personnel, from organizational, technical. Let's see how this works. So I'm sorry that it wasn't the evolutionary way to describe those narrow throats, blind spots, and some sort of figuring out these problems in order to adjust the legislation. However, it is the responsibility of this government coalition majority here in the House that it has decided to go this way, and we will try and try as opposition, we have tabled amendments. We have put forward a comprehensive first, with which we have failed, so we are now presenting a series of concrete proposals. I hope some of them succeed. I must say that I was also happy to have a constructive debate when we were discussing, for example, the issue of the protection of agricultural land following the industrial zones, the approved industrial zones, with which nothing has happened for years, that the Minister and her people have come out here to meet this amendment, which has happened to the Economic Committee. I would now like to come up with one more amendment that concerns the press 1008. It is an amendment that addresses the issue of authorized inspectors. To sum up the reasoning, I am here trying to make an adjustment to the activities of authorized inspectors by this amendment. In the new building law, this is partly taken from the existing legislation. The newly authorized inspector is to be under the authority of the issuing of expert opinions only for the purpose of the approval of constructions, while under current legislation authorized inspectors carry out a wide range of activities related to the authorisation of buildings as such. If there is a group of experts currently carrying out activities under the construction authorisation regime, it is, in general, very important to maintain this expertise and use it as efficiently as possible in the new authorisation regime. This proposal therefore goes this way, so that we can use this expertise, it is therefore desirable to be qualified by authorized inspectors to check the project documentation of buildings and the documentation of listed simple buildings for which the project documentation is not being prepared in order for their expertise to be used. It is therefore proposed that authorised inspectors issue opinions on the compliance of project documentation and documentation of listed simple buildings with the requirements for construction, technical regulations and technical standards as appropriate. Authorized inspectors may, in greater detail and scope than the construction office, work with the builder and designer in such a way that the resulting documentation, which will be submitted in the course of the proceedings, complies with those requirements. This procedure will contribute to improving the quality of the building office's decision-making and at the same time may mean an acceleration of the authorisation process, as the building office can rely on legal presumption in accordance with the submitted documentation with the requirements for construction, technical regulations and technical standards, as appropriate. As with the collaborating opinions, the expert opinion of the authorized inspector cannot be issued for constructions serving the preparation, opening and mining of bearings, as well as the treatment and refinement of minerals carried out in connection with their conquest, storage of explosives and construction of water works. Furthermore, the provisions on conflict of interest shall apply, inter alia, where an authorised inspector may not carry out his activities in respect of the buildings in which he participated, participates or is to participate in the preparation or implementation of the work himself or a person close to him. So much to justify this brief amendment, which seeks, say, to incorporate and continue to use the expertise of authorized inspectors. It is therefore an amendment to the House press 1008 and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. He apologizes for this afternoon's meeting for working reasons, Minister Schillerová. I ask if anyone else is reporting to the merged debate. The MP was a little faster. Then the Minister with priority rights. [[A note from the Minister.]] In detail. So if in the general merged - Mr Černohorský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u99	Thank you for the floor. I will be presenting a few amendments here, with the fact that I personally do not think that this law can be completely corrected, but if there is a majority here to say so, it will be up to her. For myself, I put a motion to reject both this House press 1008, and 1009. In the event that this did not pass at the third reading, I will present the amendments that I have prepared and a part of the amendments prepared by my colleague, Dana Balcarová, who could not be here today. The first is therefore an amendment, which you will find under number 7945. It is a proposal brought by the Institute, which we know from Section 135 of the Construction Act. It gives the building authority the power to order the owner of the building to remove the building immediately and to ensure its removal if the lives of persons or animals are threatened by the fact that the building in question threatens to collapse. This amendment goes to the area of conservation, in this case the conservation authorities protect public interest in another section of public administration, and in the case of this institute the aim of the body of conservation is not to destroy the matter, but rather to preserve the subject of protection. This means that there is only the part that concerns any adjustment, whether the owner does not agree with it or does not care about the memory, so there is only one part that concerns how it should be repaired and saved by this monument. Since conservation care, the authorities are conducting proceedings in the area not only of listed houses, but these are, for example, statues, images, Gothic Madonsons and others, within which they may also carry out some safety work, this amendment also involves the involvement of the authorities concerned in the proceedings for the imposition of corrective measures, in the form of a binding opinion pursuant to § 149 of the Administrative Code in determining the principles of concentration common in the Construction Act. The Ministry of Culture should provide funds for reinsurance work in accordance with the cross-cutting agreement of the central authorities of the state administration and the Ombudsman's Office, which responds to the similar aforementioned institute in the construction law. The provision of funds for this purpose should be carried out in the form of a refundable subsidy, i.e. the Ministry of Culture would designate the relevant municipality or region according to which the body of conservation has issued this decision imposing an obligation in the first instance as recipient of the funds and sent them to the relevant municipality. The municipality would accept these funds as State budget funds and deal adequately with them. The next item of the amendment is the regulation in the already existing institute of expropriation of cultural monuments. The expropriation of the cultural monument is the ultimate and extraordinary instrument of conservation. When it comes to the legitimacy of the expropriation of cultural monuments, it can be pointed out that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that expropriation is a measure which can be justified by the protection of cultural heritage, in particular the need for its conservation and sustainable exploitation. In a situation where there is no dispute that a farmhouse has cultural historical value, which is particularly true when the farmhouse is provided with protection as a cultural monument at national level, or even protection at international level, and above all it is not possible to ensure the preservation of the farmland other than expropriation, the Institute does not contradict the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The construction of the expropriation institute allows its use only if the conservation authorities have been effectively taken by statutory steps to protect the monument in question. The owner of an expropriated cultural monument would then become a state. The Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund must respect the amendment of the new Civil Code and must therefore not redistribute ownership of the building and the land on which the construction is located. It will therefore be possible, in accordance with the procedure laid down in the provisions, to expropriate land which is not declared a cultural monument if the expropriated building, which is declared a cultural monument and which is part of that land. If it is sufficient to expropriate only certain parts of the land, which the organizational component or state-based entity will initiate expropriation for the state, and which will also fulfil the public interest in protecting cultural monuments and repair the expropriated cultural monument. In view of the diversity of cultural monuments and their specific characteristics, it cannot generally be concluded that the public interest for the State could necessarily be defended by a single pre-established entity, and therefore the regulation requires the Ministry to identify an entity which, in view of the new tasks and characteristics of a particular cultural monument, will best fulfil the legal purposes envisaged to preserve such a cultural monument. The next amendment is under number 8048. Once again, this concerns monument care, with the fact that the existing law does not foresee public participation in the protection of architectural heritage, however, according to the commitment of the Czech Republic from the Convention on the Protection of Architectural Heritage, the Czech Republic must establish appropriate mechanisms at different stages of the decision-making process for providing information, consultation and cooperation between the state, regional and local authorities, cultural institutions and associations, the public and so on. This amendment should therefore anchor the possible participation of the professional public in the protection of architectural heritage. We will find another amendment under number 7948. Here are the changes in Part Five, which are made because of the unification of the offences of legal entrepreneurs and non-business individuals. Furthermore, there are various modifications, the removal of the wording of unnecessary in the 21st century legal environment, for example, the term culturally-political is deleted and changed to the word culturally and so on, with administrative penalties being graduated in this case, according to the amendment, according to the seriousness of the infringement of the obligation and the nature of the harmful consequences which may arise as a result of the breach of the obligation. We will find another amendment under number 8026. In this case, it is an amendment which treats the possible preferential right of the State to purchase cultural monuments. In order to exercise, where appropriate, the right of priority under this amendment to purchase cultural monuments, this right must be as governed by private law. In this case, there is a more detailed treatment of how the Ministry can obtain the cultural heritage of its property in priority. We will find another amendment under numbers 8022 and 8023. In this case, I am leaving the area of cultural monuments. These proposals are optional to each other. The main topic is, of course, the reclamation and adaptation of areas after possible mining, which are related to the future construction, because there are several ways to proceed to the reclamation of the areas concerned by mining after the end of the mining activity. The most commonly used are either agricultural, forestry or hydric reclamation, which means flooding, which legislation clearly favours and requires in certain cases. These are usually very expensive measures, but they can often be contrary to the interests of environmental protection. By contrast, nature's close recovery is a palette of measures that place emphasis on maintaining the territory concerned in natural development and, where appropriate, its appropriate management. This is therefore an approach with a minimum adjustment cost beyond basic security and aesthetic adjustment. The next amendment is then significantly larger. It is again related to the area of conservation care. Specifically, this is an amendment which we will find under number 8045. In this case, this is a significantly larger amendment to the State Heritage Act, because this law came into force on 1. 1. 1988. And even though he was going through several amendments, in this case, he no longer meets the requirements of the 21st century. It can be noted that the basic principles of the law ensuring the protection of cultural monuments, conservation reserves and conservation zones have proved to be effective in practice, but the increased demands of today's time on the performance of state administration also lead to the need to increase the efficiency and expertise of state conservation authorities. The proposed amendment adopts and applies parts of the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund, which has already been submitted to the House in the past, if any, but has never received its final discussion. It follows, in part, the proposals already submitted by the Ministry of Culture. It also concerns the area of archaeological research, which was submitted in 2019 in a commentary procedure on the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of natural resources. In fact, these institutes fall more into legal regulation by their nature, and therefore we prefer to convert them, including them in the legislation. [[15.10 hours]] One of the basic prerequisites of improving state conservation care is to change its organizational arrangement, with the fact that according to the existing law the professional part of the state conservation care provided by the National Heritage Institute is separated from the executive power of the state conservation authorities. This so-called double-trackity causes the lack of clarity of state administration, non-compliance with important principles of administrative activity, namely the principles of predictability and legitimate expectations. In fact, this amendment should disturb this double-trackness by transforming the monument institute into a monument office. At this point, I would therefore like to present the amendments prepared by my colleague Balcarová, who unfortunately cannot attend here today. It is an amendment under number 7609. This amendment allows public participation to be returned to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, with the fact that the Ministry of Regional Development has declared in the past an interest in ensuring public participation in authorisation procedures, but the interpretation of the necessary paragraphs is still unclear in this case. Therefore, my colleague Balcarová has prepared an amendment which should define this more clearly. We will find another amendment under number 7956. It is a return of jurisdiction to the issue and definition of the built-up territory, territorial measures and building closures. The aim of this proposal is to maintain in the hands of regional councils and municipal councils and councils decisions on the definition of the built-up territory, unless the municipality has territorial plans. Furthermore, this concerns the building closure decision and also the remediation measures. Amendment 7957 - here are two amendments to the regulation of planning contracts. These are rules governing the cross-compliance of decisions by concluding a planning contract. If the objective of the planning contracts is to allow new private construction to be allowed only if the contractor of the planning contract undertakes to participate in the necessary related public construction, then the discussion of the proposal is only about halfway. Therefore, we propose, first, to withdraw the time limit of four years and to leave the condition for the conclusion of the planning contract, if provided for in the zoning plan, in force throughout the period of validity of this plan, and secondly to add that if an investor submits a draft contract and the municipality or infrastructure owner is not required to conclude the contract, then, if necessary, after a period of three months, there is a condition for the conclusion of the planning contract which is no longer in place. Another amendment is Amendment 7958. In this case, the amendment exempts non-systemic interference from the draft law in the general regulation provided for by the Administrative Code of Justice, eliminating unjustified derogations aimed at restricting access to the protection of the rights of persons concerned by the activities of the building administration. In particular, it concerns the shortening of the time limits for bringing proceedings, the extension of the grounds on which the action is inadmissible or the non-systemic intervention in the modification of the institute of persons involved in the proceedings. Another amendment is Amendment 7959. When discussing the draft planning documentation, anyone may submit comments on the proposal, authorised investors, the municipality concerned and landowners and representatives of the public may, where appropriate, object to the proposal. The aim of the proposal is to maintain the current regulation which grants to those who have legitimate interests in the territory, stronger procedural rights and representatives the opportunity to carefully assess comments such as the rights of property owners. Comments are not meant to be on one pile, but they should be more visible on those that people make measurablely affected by the proposed changes in the zoning plan. The last amendment from my colleague Balcarová is an amendment that you will find under number 7960, where the term green infrastructure is added to the list of types of public infrastructure. This addition is particularly necessary in order to allow spatial and functional coordination within the planning documentation with the deployment of transport infrastructure and technical infrastructure in such a way that the green infrastructure forms a functioning whole. Thank you for your attention and please, I will enter into a detailed debate with the two Houses of Press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u100	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting to the general merged debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word? Madam Secretary is interested in the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u101	Thank you. I'll try to be as brief as I can, but I'd like a few reactions after all. As far as digitization is concerned, it is certainly a step in the right direction. I would just like to assure my colleague Bartoš that, of course, people will not circulate, data will be circulating. But it's not exactly the representativeness of officials that someone is going to move to another office and deal with something, but even in that digital form, one office has the advantage of sharing the numbers of the proceedings, that is, the digital data trail. As far as the transfer of officials is concerned, here I would just like to say that today is simply the problem that officials are under the Local Authority Act, in the future they will be state officials, which means that no new officials will enter the system. We really aim to keep deadlines so that individual people can be representative, for whatever reason, disease and so on. There was a debate about evolution versus revolution. I'd just like to point out that we've tried evolution 26 times before, but there was just 26 amendments to the construction law. I can also agree with some of the criticisms that the amendments did not go well, even though, of course, they brought along some kind of carrying idea, such as the last amendment from the workshop of Minister Šlechtová, which merged the territorial and construction proceedings. But in the absence of all that has been resolved, that the procedural and institutional changes have not actually occurred, an extra stamp has actually been produced, which is quite rightly criticized here by Mr Kupka. There's another partner position. Again, I would just like to reiterate that the Union of Cities and Communities is not really united. Rather, statutory cities have turned to the economic committee. On the other hand, on the other hand, I must say that the Union of Towns and Municipalities, together with the large cities, has provoked the negotiations on territorial planning in its own remit, and I take it as a very good, balanced moment, that if we talk about territorial planning in its own scope, then it is balanced by the pure state building right. Maybe just one more comment on the authorities concerned. Mr Kupka here rightly said that the time limits in both proposals are the same. There was debate here when conflict occurred at the level of the institutions concerned, it is only necessary to say that the economic committee has integrated the authorities concerned into the building office, whereas in that second proposal the opposition Members are not integrated by the authorities concerned. So when there is a conflict at the level of the authorities concerned, coordination is called for. But, of course, the coordination negotiations are only triggered when the institution concerned gives a negative opinion, so everyone sits down, which, of course, will take on time for the time limits. So, on the contrary, we're trying not to divide the teams, but to unite them. Maybe just an important point. The coordination meeting, if the opposition proposal were to come, there is a big problem that, of course, not all parties will meet there in the coordination meeting, but the building office versus the authorities concerned, so that the equal position of the parties could then be threatened. For an important point, I may still need to say that the municipalities are only a party to the proceedings today in the phase of the territorial procedure. Newly, in agreement with the municipalities, the municipality will always be a party to the proceedings. And here's my point about the transitional provisions. Yes, I'm right here. We have just complied with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, which pointed out that it is necessary to lay down transitional provisions so that the new construction law gets into reality gradually. So here we have complied with to actually prevent any construction proceedings from stopping. Now, if you don't mind, just to Mr Šindelář of Plzeň in particular. As I said before, the municipality will always be a party to the proceedings. And as for the length of the process, as he defended or said here, as does Doing Business, and simplifying project documentation, removing ping-pong and all the other things the bill contains. [[15.20 hours]] Mr Výborný also criticised that we are the creators of the division of the model of government and self-government, so I would just like to point out that we are not really the first ones to divide the model of government and self-government. This was done by the Civil Democratic Party when it separated the labor authorities. Then Mrs Valachová here, and for that I thank her very much, reminded her of Dr. Kadečka's huge participation. I am really grateful that Dr. Kadečka has been going through the whole process with us because he has been very intensely communicating with the authorities, and the proposal for a clean government administration is from Dr. Kadečka's workshop, which literally compared it to the body and bone, and if, of course, the body doesn't have the bones as it should, it will collapse. So that's why he also suggested the clean state construction administration to make the construction process work the way it should. Anyway, let me thank Professor Mejstřík for the mike. Unfortunately, neither Dr. Kadečka nor Professor Mejstřík are among us anymore, but Professor Mejstřík participated in and processed RIA, which means that we really have been betting on the biggest experts available to the Czech Republic. To Mr Čižinský, as far as the zoning plan is concerned, it is only for accuracy. The zoning plan must be digital today, it follows from the amendment of the Act of 2017. And just one last remark to Mr Jurečka: the inter-ministerial commentary procedure really went on repeatedly. The first proposal was sent to MPŘ 28. 11. 2019 and following data 28. 2, 6. 3. and 3. 4. That means the modified versions were even three times in the interdepartment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-01-ps2017-095-01-002-999.u102	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I'm asking if any of the rapporteurs are interested in final words? Mr Kolovratník, Mr Feri for the IDA? Who did I leave out? Mr Bartoš, if necessary, for the public administration? Is there an interest in the final word? It's not like that. So now we're going to go back to the detailed debate on the point.
