ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u1	United debate on points 1 and 2 /German press 201 and 211/ We have repeatedly discussed these Houses of Presses 201 and 211 on 10 March 2021 at the 87th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged general debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Marek Výborný. I would remind you that the rapporteur of the guarantee committees is Mr Marek Novák in print 201 and Mrs Věra Procházková in print 211. We will now continue the suspended merged debate. On 10 March 2021, Mrs Nevludová's speech was suspended. If the Member wishes to continue, please have the floor. I'll ask the others for peace, and to take their seats in the hall, or to debate outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Last time I was interrupted for a fixed point, I'd take the liberty of starting all over again. So, ladies and gentlemen, I personally honor the value of marriage, which is for me a union of men and women, and I see the possible change of this institution to the relationship of two persons as a denial of the laws of nature and the destruction of the basic building block of society. Why is it a bad idea to change the definition of a marriage that has been stable for millennia? New laws never affect only those directly involved. They're affecting the whole company. Do we still want to talk about mother and father or parents number one and parents number two? By redefining marriage, a new standard that is legally recognized as normal will be normal in kindergartens, schools, children's books and textbooks. The legal standard will also affect the language to be spoken about by family members, and the refining of marriage opens the way to homosexual parenting. We don't know anything like universal parenting. It's paternity and it's motherhood and it's two different and irreplaceable approaches to children. The adoption of this proposal would result in the total destruction of the existing concept of marriage and its complete separation from its basic purpose - the establishment of a family in the sense of the birth of common children and their upbringing. What a handful of loud activists demand is not really allowing gay marriages, but changing the definition of marriage, which is based on the fact that the primary purpose of marriage has always been and has always been the procreation and education of children. Logically, marriage is based on the basic biological fact that a child's parents can only be male and female. We often hear that children thrive in the same sex unions as in the family with their father and mother. Most of the studies that came up with these claims but did not use a sufficiently large representative sample with a sufficient number of observed children. Development psychology is clear. Children raised by homosexuals are burdened with more developmental disability. But it's not just the kids. Experience from abroad shows that freedom of speech and freedom of conscience drop sharply wherever homosexual marriage has been legalized and opinion censorship increases. The simple claim that a heterosexual family is better for children than other types of cohabitation is already described as a hateful statement. In Western countries, it is not just the simple tolerance of homosexual life that is required, but its direct support and public approval. Different opinions are silenced, critical contributions on social networks are lubricated, their authors are accused of homophobia and hatred and are prosecuted. The question is often asked: why stop gays and lesbians from marrying when half the marriage is falling apart? Despite the current high divorce rate, marriage between men and women is still considered more stable than other forms of cohabitation, so it really is not an argument for us to resign to the protection of marriage. Representative Scandinavian data show significantly higher instability of homosexual unions compared to heterosexual ones. A greater risk of divorce rate is often observed especially in lesbian couples, even in countries as tolerant as Norway and Sweden. In 2019 345 couples joined the registered partnership in the Czech Republic and 104 couples died out. Even if we try harder, we can't think of anything better than a man and a woman's marriage. Available studies point out that children develop best when they grow up with their married biological parents. These children can establish healthy relationships, show better results in school, and often find good work in adulthood. And the chances of their being able to sacrifice themselves for them are greatly increased because of the biological bond. All children should have exactly the same starting legal status there. If there is a child in the coexistence of two women or in the coexistence of two men, this usually means that one of his parents denied the child his basic right to have and to know the other of his parents. Why don't the same sex couples free children from children's homes and centers? Children legally available for adoption in the Czech Republic are hundreds less than applicants, it is a long-term trend. In addition, we have long been able to adopt for individuals, and there has been no great interest in these children by homosexuals. The argument of abandoned children from children's homes is thus rather a front to gain popular sympathy. In fact, the legalization of a homosexual marriage will mean opening up the possibility of a surrogate, or sulrogate motherhood, as a way to help children without a mate of the other sex. Because surogatical motherhood means that a couple will order a woman to carry a child to order and then have to give it up. It is true that children already exist in the same sex couples and live. Children from previous heterosexual relationships have two parents, and by law they have the right to associate with both father and mother. The situation of a child born through artificial insemination of a woman in a lesbian union is really difficult, but his mother brought him into this situation with full knowledge, who had already decided before conception that the child would live without a father. This is a significant difference from singles, few of whom have conceived a child with a conscious intention of taking his father. [[9.30 hours]] The birth of a child is a very private matter for a homosexual couple, especially in the case of gay couples, when up to four different people are involved in the birth of a new person. An anonymous donor egg, a surrogate mother who is implanted in the uterus an embryo fertilized by the mixed semen of two fathers. And from this ethically questionable process, a child is born who doesn't know who his mother is, who his father is, doesn't know his biological parents, and he won't be sure where he comes from. Such a child literally doesn't know whose it is. Children who come into the world into a gay couple can never be descendants of both partners. They'll always miss one of their parents, miss their father or their mom. Moreover, efforts to legalize surrogacy directly violate the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which says that every child has the right to know and be raised by their parents. The Czech Republic has also ratified this Convention and is still in force. However understandable the desire for a child is, there is no right to a child. A child is not a commodity. Changing the definition of marriage opens the way to surrogate motherhood, trafficking in women and children. A child is not something we can get under any conditions. A child is a gift and a child needs a mother and a father. Marriage for same-sex persons will change our society, change our perception of normality, take away our freedom of speech and the possibility of free child education. Most people in the Czech Republic want to have children in marriage, which is why they consider it best not only for themselves but also for their children. This is confirmed by research that children benefit best with their biological parents living in marriage. For 86% of people in the Czech Republic, family is very important. 83% of the Czech population does not consider marriage to be an outdated institute. Each country has its own legal order that meets its own conditions based on its own traditions, culture, a way of life that may differ from other countries in many ways. But that's no reason to adapt to everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u3	Thank you, Madame. And with priority rights, Vice-President Okamura has signed up for this. According to Section 67, I must give him the floor at any time, and then, after agreement, the Member shall speak Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal for a law against members of other parties than the SPD, which proposes to ban gay marriage. The SPD's movement disagrees with this proposal and I will explain immediately why. Today, regardless of party preferences, age, education, wealth, or intelligence, a dispute over whether marriage is a union between a man and a woman or not. The SPD movement has a clear and consistent attitude. We have nothing against a registered partnership. I have nothing personal or against homosexuals. After all, my younger brother is gay, I love him very much, we communicate very often and we often hang out. But marriage, from our point of view, is simply a union between a man and a woman. This is a dispute between the traditional perception of the world, between traditional values. I would add, it is a dispute between common sense and pseudoliberal nihilism - after me the flood. Human civilizations throughout the history of marriage codify men and women, even in civilizations that tolerated homosexuality, or, for example, ancient Greece, pederastia, i.e. sex between men and young boys, even preferred. The reasons are obvious. The institution of marriage had a much more fundamental and complex function. Two were essential: reproductive and economic. The economy was behind the formation of the patriarchy. A man earned the right to inherit his property from his children. Children are crucial to marriage. Since the early Middle Ages, Christian churches have resisted, for example, divorces, the evil inheritance of the wicked Rome, but they recognized the exception and that was infertility. A marriage that was unable to produce children was not considered to be a valid marriage at the time, even between a man and a woman. This principle, however, applied in the days of ancient Rome and also in dozens of other cultures. The first ever documented divorced Říman was a certain Spurius Carvilius Ruga, who broke up in 230 BC with his wife. He deeply loved her and respected her for her moral integrity and good character. For some time Carvilius Ruga held the office of Consul and had to swear by law that he would marry only for the purpose of procreation of children. His marriage remained childless after years. He had to get a divorce, and his case became a precedent for divorce. Marriage has been an institute for thousands of years that, in all civilizations, legally connects a man and a woman to procreate children. The oldest laws of the world from ancient Mesopotamia codify marriages with the rights and obligations of both partners and, on the other hand, sanction, for example, barren sex between men. There is no homophobia, there is no prejudice, but there is a cold calculus where every legislator knew that if a country is to flourish, there must be functional families in its foundations that produce children, workers, soldiers, scholars, but also mothers. If I mention history, then it is not the primary fact that a man and woman's marriage is really one of the oldest social institutions in history and the world, but the fact that if all religions, civilization and empire have lasted so long, it is because it is fundamentally based on common sense. It's something that works properly in principle. A man and a woman have children and such a family to stand up through laws and protects and favors their power, because such a family pays him off. In the future, every child is a taxpayer who works or needs a soldier who fights and dies for his family, but also the state. We must also prefer building families with children today because they depend on the survival of society, civilization and nation. [[9.40 hours]] As I have repeated many times: the fact that normal families are divorcing, and this is a high percentage, there is no reason for us to liquidate a normal family with dad and mom and make it equal to a registered partnership, but it is a reason to favour such a family. I wanted to say to favour even more, but simple numbers show that those who have children, on the contrary, are economically discriminated against children because of the cost of raising them. And at times when we need every decent and hardworking family with children, there are Members from other political parties - and I will be specific, it's the Yes movement, it's the Pirates, it's the STAN movement, it's the TOP 09 and it's the KSČM - so the members of these parties come up with the idea of taking away families with children and the small, more or less undeclarative advantage. So I will repeat one more time who is signed under this proposal: they are members of the movement YES, KSČM, ČSSD - sorry, I forgot, ČSSD - then it is the movement STAN, Pirates and TOP 09. So they come up with the idea of taking the families with the kids and the little, more or less declarative advantage. All citizens are equal before the law. That's the deal. So let's not talk about any discrimination against anyone. The fact is that the State favours certain activities, or at least ethically elevates them above others. We favor blood donors, and that's right. And is it also unfair that health doesn't allow anyone to donate? But does anyone who is not allowed by nature to donate blood, to be a blood donor, and possibly to have an equally honorable position or advantage? Yes, it is unfortunate, but even today, no one would ever think of promoting the right to be an honest blood donor to everyone, regardless of whether he gives blood or not. But if we go in the same direction as some Members from other parties today, then yes, we will probably see that too. One of the loudest arguments of those who are here to enforce the marriage of identical sex couples is that they want to adopt children from children's homes. And they say - and the argument is, the argument is that children from children's homes are better off having homosexual parents than staying in a foster home. It is the biggest and rudest lie I have ever heard, because when I ask those activists who grew up in a children's home, if they had experienced this personal experience, when I asked here in the Chamber of Deputies, who grew up in a child's home, those who say this nonsense here, I found that basically no one here in the Chamber of Deputies grew up in a child's home - unlike me - and none of the activists I asked have had that experience either. It's one big lie of people who never grew up in a foster home. I grew up part of my childhood in a foster home. The children's home is still there. It's in Mašťov u Podbořan in Ústí Region. And I can tell you that if, as a little boy who can't defend himself, and no one listens to his opinion, he adopted the same sex couple, I'd rather jump out the window, because I'd rather be in that room for 15 kids - that was a whole different childhood home than today - because I always wanted to have a mommy and a daddy. So I'm saying again, it's one of the most disgusting and disgusting lies that children in a children's home -- flat-rately, that the activists are saying it -- it's better if they have gender parents than in a foster home. It's not true. It's what people say who haven't had a children's home in person. I haven't heard one of these activists say he grew up alone in a foster home. It's an invention. It's a lie, and I'm an example. I would never want to be adopted by the same sex couple, even though I was in the room for fifteen children, where I experienced bullying - it was also in the 13th Chamber on Czech Television. I didn't have good conditions there, it was a very long time ago, it was in deep communism back then, it was in the 1970s, but I never, ever wanted to be adopted like this. That means that this argument is flattering, I feel like some activists here are making little children into pets or things. It's not like that, even little kids in a foster home like me, we're people, and it's not possible without these kids expressing themselves so that they can have an opinion, so just adopt someone. That's impossible. So this lie I've been hearing over and over again, I'm sorry that I've been repeating it for the third time since, because this outrageous lie that these activists are calling one of the biggest lies I've ever heard in my life in politics. People who have never been to a children's home say that. They've never been to a children's home and repeat this meaningless lie. So that's what I was gonna say. And when I asked those activists - who have come to me, they no longer come to me because they know that the SPD will not break in this firm attitude - whether they have a study, a study of the effects, what happens when, for example, a two or three-year-old couple adopt the same sex couple and the child, when it comes to reason at some age - in some - suddenly finds out that he actually wants to have a mommy and a daddy. What's gonna happen? What's gonna happen? Because no one listens to a little child, lets him express himself, has no defense anywhere, just feels it. Yes, it's a horror situation literally. The only situation I think is committing suicide for such a small child. Like, yeah. Well, you guys are saying, "Jesus." And that's what the kids who were never in that foster home say, so they say, "Jesus." Because without me defending myself, a little child no one asks for his opinion if I was adopted and I couldn't defend myself - because why would anyone ask a little child what they would ask him? - and suddenly I'd find out that I don't have a mommy and daddy and I can't do anything about it, I would at that time, I've thought about it many times, because I was in that foster home, I remember, I'd just jump out the window. That would be all I could do, because I wouldn't have a defense anywhere. Of course, there are people in a children's home who either don't have parents or have parents, but they don't care about them, or in my case they have severe health problems, so my mother couldn't take care of me. So that's my opinion on this adoption issue. And when I asked if anyone would disprove me from those activists, the result was that they stopped coming to me because they just didn't have the answer. As far as the second point of today's meeting is concerned, it is a constitutional law to explicitly establish a marriage as a relationship between a man and a woman. When I read it, I first thought that desperate times make us do desperate things. And so, within the framework of defending fundamental values, we are trying to enact absolutely standard and obvious truths, seemingly the highest law, namely the Constitution. For example, it is about the rights of citizens to defend themselves and their country with a gun in their hand, or such a primitive and obvious fact that marriage is a relationship between men and women. As in the case of weapons, I remind you of the cruel fact that we are not sovereign countries - weapons, that is, how we have acted here, that we are implementing the right to defend ourselves with weapons in hand - so I recall in this context the cruel fact that we are not sovereign countries, but a truly conquered country where our constitutional laws have no power towards Brussels, and even the stupidest EU directive has a higher power from the point of view of law than the Czech laws. Despite this, it is good to go this way too, i.e. to try to anchor the basic rules in our Constitution. Not because we have reversed the right from Brussels in any way, we will only reverse it with a proposal from the SPD - we have already proposed a referendum 14 times here on the withdrawal from the European Union, and you have all rejected it here - but so that some people can open their eyes and see the real situation in which our state of law is situated and start to wonder what is right and whether it is not time to think about the changes. Even the sovereign Czech Republic can be an organic and functional part of the European community. We in the SPD movement are the only ones in this House who, as a whole - including the whole movement, including the simple members and our voters - have the unreserved view that parents are a father and a mother, that marriage is, of course, an institutionalized relationship between a man and a woman and that it is an institute that must be preferred in all possible respects, in the interests of a nation that needs decent, hardworking families who produce and raise decent and hardworking children. [[9.50 hours]] When I go back to the very beginning, if I briefly sum it up: the SPD is convinced that sexual orientation is a private matter for every person and we have no ambition to address here in Parliament who is doing what in the bedroom in their privacy. Let everyone deal with their personal relationships at their own discretion, including people from the LGBTI community, with limits given by applicable legislation, of course. For same-sex marriages, an institute of registered partnership was established in 2006 - precisely to avoid interference with the institution of marriage. That should definitely remain a bond between a man and a woman. And once again, I stress for those activists and various people who deliberately distort SPD proposals and my opinions that neither we nor the SPD have anything personal or against homosexuals. After all, we have them among our members. After all, my younger brother is gay. I love him very much. We communicate very often and often associate with each other. [[Reactions in the left side of the hall.]] That's why... Otherwise, here again the screams of some lying Members, I have two brothers, because someone here has stupid remarks, older and younger. [[Re-reactions in the left side of the hall.]] That's why the SPD will support... Like, and the clues, so somebody can forgive themselves. I don't want to talk to you from the CSSD or from the left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u5	Mr. Colleague, if you please, through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u6	Sure. But these desperate screams... I'm still doing my speech. I don't talk to MPs anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u7	Yes. But I'm gonna make a deal... I can't have you yelling at each other here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u8	I'd like them not to yell at me desperately from the left. I know you're balancing at 5%, so you're desperate, but I'm really not curious. That is why the SPD will support the parliamentary draft constitutional law, which will anchor marriage as a union of men and women directly in the constitutional law, specifically in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. We merely add that, at the time of the approval of the Institute of Registered Partnership, representatives of the LGBTI community appeared expressing that this legislation suits them. This will avoid questioning, in the future, the regulation of marriage, which is now contained in the Civil Code. And the SPD movement says clearly: family first. More information is on Familynaprinnimmiste.cz. On the contrary, in this context, the SPD will not support the amendment to the Civil Code proposed here by members of the Pirates, the ANO, the ČSSD, STAN, TOP 09 and the KSČM, which goes in exactly the opposite direction and intends to loosen up the marriage, make it a marriage of two persons, namely any two persons. Moreover, the amendment aims to adopt children by such couples. We and our voters both want to maintain marriage as an exclusive institute that connects men and women, creates the best framework for raising children and is the cornerstone of the structure of our society. And by the way, as I heard here sometime yesterday in the media about gay couples in a registered partnership, they can't have any more rights together. But there's nothing stopping anyone from amending existing legislation on registered partnerships here. Why don't they come up with it? After all, legislation can be extended to discuss here, such as when there is some concern when it gets sick so that they can visit each other or other rights. It could be part of a registered partnership. But here we see someone trying to push us into basically weakening the institution of marriage between men and women. So instead of these people saying in the past, and we all remember that they're okay with an amendment to a registered partnership, now all of a sudden there's a broken promise from the past and it's pushing away. After all, we can deal with rights that would like to strengthen the same sex couples within the framework of a registered partnership. We'll be happy to take part in this discussion, see what comes out of this discussion. But it's also media, as the activists say - it's a big lie, and it's a big manipulation when they say that the extended rights can only be achieved if it equals marriage. That's not true, and we all know that. We can discuss extending rights within the framework of a registered partnership. We'll be happy to take part in this discussion, as I say, but let's leave marriage to marriage. I think I've made it very clear here, and we have nothing against homosexuals. I know you're born that way, somebody one way or another. Nobody has a problem with that. Like I said, it's in my immediate family, and there's no problem at all, and we don't see it, and we don't really care. We take every man - he's a man like everyone else. That's quite all right. This has nothing to do with these attitudes. And finally, I have to say, I'm also pretty upset about some of the LGBTI community activists overreacting. They're overreacting. That is, we who have a reasonable attitude about this and we do not define ourselves, we have our opinions on it, so they are trying unnecessarily to attack. Of course, they're desperate attacks, because no one can convince us anyway. But a reasonable debate without any media bullying, without some lashing, I think the whole thing would be good for each other so that we can focus on this matter, calmly, and achieve each other's different goals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u9	Thank you. I will ask the Výborný Member, Mrs Melková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u10	Mr President, dear government, dear colleagues, I would like to speak as the promoter of the House Press 211. After all, this debate, which was interrupted almost two years ago, deserves me to revisit this press. To begin with, I would like to say for myself and for the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club, as well as for a group of other translators, in a clear and understandable way, as well as decently and culturedly, that we stand on the side of a stable family built and defined as a father, mother and children. We reject relativization of the value of marriage and the idea that it could be a union of anyone. Today's debate is truly a debate of value, an idea, not a political debate. And I say again, our goal is that what forms the foundation of a stable family - marriage - dad, mom, and kids - is not to be diluted in any way. That is why we have come up with a proposal that I want to reiterate and introduce here, and this is an amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where it is already clearly stated that family and parenting are under the protection of the law. But in this situation, which is unfortunately obvious, and there is the effort of certain progressive groups - it unfortunately fits into the context in a sense of cultural war, which I would say here sometimes is rather artificially conducted, when the effort of some values is simply relativizing - so it seems good and appropriate that in the highest law, that is, the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, it is firmly established and that limits have been created, when not only family and parenthood, when the family itself, of course, is subject to some development in time, but to the foundation of a family that is formed by marriage, to be protected by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. That is why we want to add four or five words to the Charter that, not only family and parenting, that is today, but also "marriage as a union of men and women" are under the protection of the law. Let me start with a few footnotes. What bothers me is that we are witnessing, especially on social networks, often absolutely incredible attacks, aggressions, comments that are distant from the pursuits of what I said, that the debate is to be conducted factually, culturally and decently and with respect for each other. Recall Voltaire's wordsVoltair "I will never agree with your opinion, but at the same time I will defend the right for you to say so in blood. " And if today we see someone expressing themselves clearly and saying, "Yes, marriage is for me dad, mom and kids, and that's how it should stay, he's aggressively attacked by other debaters, and I don't think that's right. [[10.00 hours]] Just like I don't think it's right when it's backwards. When those who say that the concept of marriage should be completely relaxed and relativized when they are equally aggressively attacked from the other side. It's wrong too. We are to make arguments, we are to defend, absolutely rationally, factually and culturedly, our position and our opinion, but we are not to slide to aggression, which is not really worthy of this debate. Second point. I confess that I do not understand why a group of Members, and they were not KDU-ČSL Members, have called this extraordinary meeting today. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are dealing with Russian agents running around the Czech Republic, at a time when we have a confirmed colossal conflict of interests of the Prime Minister of this government, at a time when we are debating support from allies in our complicated relationship with Russia, at a time when we have a pandemic that we cannot handle here, at a time when children have been tied up at home with radiators for a year and can't go to school, although especially at lower levels it probably wouldn't prevent anything at all, at a time when we are debating what impact they will be on children who are not only not educated in the standard presentation form, but who lack social contacts, they cannot go out into the forest with scouts and the like, at a time when we are dealing with the impact of covid on families, we are going to spend the day here, which, in my opinion, would of course wait at this time. It is a matter of value and does not solve the problems that we, as Members, should be dealing with here. The ministers of this government must also spend time here who... Minister Zaorálek would certainly prefer to discuss how to return life to a culture that is completely numb. We have information about the Prague Spring and so on, but culture is not only Prague Spring. We also have regional culture, and at this point we are engaged in a debate that would certainly wait. I said, why do you wag this with a dog? It really does, it feels like there's something to cover up, something to cover up, so we're going to open up a debate that has been stopped since 2019, somewhere since March. By the way, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is merged: the first one, the amendment to the Civil Code, and the amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms that I am talking about. At any time in the time of the far-deep predecessors, you had the opportunity, as government MPs, to re-integrate the negotiations at first reading into the programme so that they would actually be discussed here. The fact that former colleague Maxová, who was the bearer of this House's 201 press, disappeared from the House was not the reason that the House press and the debate were parked somewhere in the 350th ranking under the agendas of each meeting. And now, at this moment, at a time that is least convenient, we are opening this debate in a completely bizarre way. I find it really pointless and a waste of time when we really should be focusing on the things that are important. I'm ordering an emergency meeting to be held today, so we're not at the point of a proper meeting. So there's so many two notes for the introduction. And now let me give more attention to the second point of the merged debate, namely the House of Press 211. It's good to remember what its contents are. The proposed amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms aims to complement the protection of the family at the level of constitutional order enshrined in Article 32 of the Title of the Fourth Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms on the protection of one of the fundamental building elements of a complete family, namely the marriage of men and women. The need to give special recognition and constitutional protection to the marriage union of a man and woman as one of the cornerstones of society in today's turbulent times, in which we meet with ubiquitous efforts to relativize and tear down patterns, no matter how well proven, more recent than ever. It is therefore most desirable that the true nature, meaning and importance of this union reflect the document that anchors the highest values on which our society and our legal order stand. This document is precisely the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. This is clearly a value debate, as I have already said. It is a basic element stable - stable - family. And maybe a short turn here. I deliberately say stable, not traditional, because the family itself obviously had different characteristics in the 19th, 18th century. We certainly do not advocate returning to a time of strict subjection to men within the family, but there is a fundamental difference between what is family and what makes up the core of the family, and that is marriage. And marriage from the nature of the word itself - I remember the debate from 2019, my colleague Patrik Nacher here I mean, the content of the word marriage was very well discussed, that the word marriage already contains the relationship between the two sexes, men and women. Unfortunately, reality does not give everyone happiness in the form of a complete family and a happy marriage. That's reality, I'm aware of that. And if the family is living today, and the Czech Republic, apart from the crisis and erosion, is not, it is not the role of the state to resign, but, on the contrary, to support it more and more intensively. To this, this amendment also aims to create positive patterns. The marriage of a man and a woman typically has the potential to fulfill all the main functions of a family, especially to bring the next generation into the world and to raise it in irreplaceable, irreplaceable and complementaryly active maternal and fatherly love and pattern. The institution of marriage of a man and a woman who has proven itself in an extraordinary and long-term way in the course of history deserves the highest protection and respect, not arbitrary experiments and attempts to "enhanced" and to transform it according to current trends. Repeatedly, repeatedly in public appearances, we say that marriage is not a right that it is not intended to treat the relationship of two people who love each other. Marriage is not a matter of debate on rights, it is not a question of discrimination, and it is not something that should form a form of loving relationship between two people. It's just that love can't be bound by laws. The state is not supposed to regulate emotional emotional relationships. I want to stress that. It is everyone's free choice to live with. If there's something we legislators shouldn't do, it's climbing into people's bedrooms. This is not at all the subject of our consideration, it is not to be the subject of our discussions. Marriage is a unique association between a man and a woman who has its irreplaceable value. It's a gift and a mission. We are not even debating minority rights. We're debating values. In that sense, we're not attacking anyone. We reject the different attributes that appear in public space, about homophobics or something like that. It really isn't on that plane. I personally have a number of friends in the LGBT community. And we're not in a situation where we deny anyone any rights because marriage isn't about rights. And even because we value every person, we respect the different forms of human coexistence, their value. But we defend a marriage that is the foundation of a traditional family with all its responsibilities. By the way, a tweet describes the public debate beautifully - and I quote: "I have been married to a man, always one, the same one, for 27 years. We have three kids, and they're all ours, our own. I know, I'm a rebel." So this expression cannot, from our point of view, become the norm in our society. At the same time, it should be recalled that the debate we are having here is not about the rights of the child. A child is a gift, a human life is a gift, and as such it must not become a subject of trade or order, nor any social engineering, nor of a law that defies. We refuse to move towards a hedonist society where nothing is denied to anyone and everything is hidden under the term 'right to'. The child is not entitled or right, but the child is the fruit of the love of one another's husbands and we apply to keep it that way. [[10.10 hours]] But at the same time, let us also admit that today's family crisis is not really caused by homosexual couples. It is not caused by those who live in different types of coexistence and partnership. It would be cheap and dishonest to blame anyone. This crisis is our own fault, because married couples, families themselves are responsible for their irresponsibleness, they are not caring for relationships in families with an emphasis on a certain role of claim mentality. The whole debate is therefore a glove thrown to us, who defend the concept of marriage and family, and also to us legislators, to support the family, role and position of mothers, as well as the role of fathers in raising children. I would also like to remind you that this debate cannot slip to the fact that I have a right to marriage, that is not the subject of the right. Nor do I have the right to a child. The Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that the child has the right to a father and a mother. He has the right to know his father and mother, and this needs to be recalled again and clearly. This is therefore the content, the subject and the justification of this amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, where we clearly want to say that marriage as a union between a man and a woman is not something that would be survived, is not something that belongs to the 19th century, but is a value that forms the basis of a stable family, is a value that forms the basis of our society and should remain that way. Foreign experience is also included in the explanatory memorandum on this proposal. I would like to point out that at this point, we are the last state, for example, of the Visegrad Four, who does not have in its constitutional order enshrined in the protection of marriage as a bond between men and women, and we would find other examples, whether from the Baltics or, for example, from Italy or Croatia, where the clearly limits of marriage are defined in the legal system, in the legal order, and in this sense we are not going through our proposal for a path that would be untapped or something that would not be standard in many European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like this debate here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies to be factual and cultured in this sense so that we can hear the views of both sides so that a debate in public space is conducted in a similar way. I just think that this time we are in today and these days and weeks should be devoted to other, more important topics at the moment than this topic, which apparently at the last moment, even the Chamber of Deputies at the end of the parliamentary term, is unable to discuss and also properly approve. In conclusion, let me make a procedural proposal. At the end of the general debate, I ask that - firstly, if I am not mistaken, there are proposals to be rejected at first reading from the general debate that took place in 2018, and 2019 respectively, but that if these two House prints 201 and 211 are not rejected at first reading or returned to the petitioners, but they will be postponed for discussion in the committees, then I would like to propose an extension of the deadline for discussion to 80 days for one simple reason. This is an amendment to the Civil Code. This is an amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. We must also have this debate from the point of view of law. These are fundamental standards, whether the Civil Code or the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and I believe that we should be sufficiently committed to this on the part of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, we should also ask for expert opinions from constitutional lawyers. That is why I would like to propose that we vote on the extension of the deadline to 80 days, unless there is a refusal. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u11	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. Thank you, Mr Marek Výborný, for his speech as one of the plaintiffs of the press 211. We continue the discussion by making factual remarks. Now Jiří Dolejš, then Karla Šlechtová and on the waiting list is colleague Melková. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u12	Yes, thank you. I am not a fan of the great delay, and I would like, especially at this point, that we do not overwhelm it. But since the question has already been asked here, why was this point even an attempt to put in today's extraordinary meeting, the answer is simple. The initiative was born in 2017. The debate on this topic was enough when we started reading first. I didn't even hear any new arguments today. The truth is that some are actually trying to have a value debate, but those positions are just given. And if we don't move forward in the debate, whether we decide to reject or move to second reading, it almost looks like someone doesn't want to do the dot behind this proposal. It's a little obstructive. If there's any longer time to think about it, please remember it's five months before the election. So, in order to cope with the second and third readings, or any return from the Senate, let us really think that there really is little time. It would be a shame if this point ended up in the canal, although, of course, a number of parliamentary proposals will end in the canal. I really think the positions are largely given. I think that the minority is fighting, most see it with a certain wonder, because even the majority society measured by the surveys is more inclined to go this way rather than those more advanced countries to the west of us than those to the east of us, but of course we will decide that by the vote. The fact is that most of the European Union has it. It's been working for a while, there's no trouble. Kids don't have to jump out the window when they learn they could be adopted. These are simply things that are unnecessarily dramatized, and with all tolerance to differing opinions, I think we best do it by voting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u13	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now, Mrs Karla Šlechtová, with a point of fact. Patrik Nacher will be prepared, also with a factual remark. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also react merely with a factual remark. I may begin by saying that many of the supporters of this House will not perform too much, because, as my previous speaker said, those positions are given. I would just like to repeat the timing so that there is no unnecessary reasoning fouls - since when is the law here that it is an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies that we are acting in half. Well, covid we didn't make up, we also want to be healthy, so just time. 12. 6. 2018, which is three years, was submitted to the amendment to the Civil Code of this House, then went to the government to take a position on this. At first, I say that Babišův's first government gave a favourable opinion. It was June 22, 2018. 14. 11. 2018, which is two and a half years ago, was the first reading, very short, not finished again. Then you remember that 26. 3. 2019 continued the first reading. In April or March of this year, the first reading continued again. I don't think there's another law where we keep repeating first reading and basically everyone who's performing here is repeating their positions. We would very much like to have a vote today. So we know the positions, speed up your comments, and please let us vote as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u15	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Now the factual comment by Patrik Nacher and then the factual comment by Mr Marek Výborný. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I, however - and you know, consistently that I do not support this, of course, and I have already had this long speech and I will have it shorter today, so I also supported the call for this meeting. The reason is clear. Because it's been really two and a half years here, we have some opinions about it, and it seems fair to me that those opinions just come out and we're gonna get along with it in some way. So I don't agree that we're discussing this for nothing. I find it a bit of a criticism from my colleague at all costs. I was experiencing it anyway and I felt last week when the point that we criticized was that we weren't suggesting here, then we propose, that was the report of the Czech Television Council, so we get the papula that we came up with it again at this point. I mean, there was pressure to discuss it. That number has 201, 211, you can see how deep it is in the past. Well, that's what we're discussing, so now we're gonna get scolded again that we're discussing this right now. It's never a good time. And I'm saying this here as a person who really has a clear opinion about it that he has expressed, doesn't support it, but at the same time, so that we can somehow end it and let everyone know that it's fair -- that's what it's like now to be fair -- so everyone knows what they're on. The worst part is when these social things, social things, standards, they rot in a drawer somewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Výborný's point of view now. My colleague Melková is ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I will allow you to respond to the words of my colleague Šlechtová. It's not like we're repeating the first reading. So it really needs to be called right. The first reading continues. The first reading is not repeated. And by the way, you're the government coalition that could have been interrupted at any time since March 26, 2019, when it was interrupted - the first reading, so it was still a year before the beginning of the video pandemic, and the dog didn't bark. The dog didn't bark to keep the first reading going. Of course, you have a vast majority here, and the debate could have been a long time ago. So let's not say this is where the first reading is repeated. It's not repeated. And you probably understand the last time we discussed the proposal in a factual way - when, aside from those three minutes some 14 days ago - March 26, 2019, that after about two years, or more than two years, it is good to repeat the basic arguments and describe the proposal here. I don't think I've talked long enough to be blamed for obstruction in any way. I presume that today's debate will be closed, it will be voted in some way. But then let's call things real names. It's not a repeat of the first reading, it's a sequel. And we are in the House, so the right of each of us Members to speak to these things must be preserved here, especially when it comes to such a fundamental value and idea debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u19	Thank you. I will ask my colleague Melková to wait, because Mrs Kořanová has applied, and also to a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u20	Thank you. I'm sorry about my colleague Melková. I'm really gonna be short. Mr Excellent, through Mr President, you are not telling the truth. I'm sure Mrs. Šlechtová meant it by repeating your speeches from the beginning again and again. That's what it was meant to be. And again, you're wrong that we weren't trying to put the first reading on the program. We've tried it repeatedly. But you always put Bečva in there, then you talk about the Dukovany for an hour. [[A Member of the Excellent at the rapporteur's table outside the microphone disagrees.]] It's true, Mr. Výborný. It's true. Really. Yes, don't yell at me. Thank you. It's true. You put Bečva in there. We've been waiting repeatedly for that first reading. And again: Colleagues Nevludová started today from the beginning, you revisited the proposal. We have the content of the press. We can read, it's on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. So that's what Mrs. Šlechtová meant. You're not telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u21	Well, thank you. But you have raised further factual points, Mr. Aleš Juchelka, Mr. Marin Jurečka and Mr. Marek Výborný. My colleague Melková is still free. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u22	Thank you so much. Maybe I'll make it a little bit upset. Of course, there are many Members who have had their proposals here for several years. I've had a proposal here at first reading for three years, for example, to rename parental leave as parental care, and it didn't even get to the first reading. This means that I am even more discriminated against as a petitioner than those who have submitted these two bills. I'm one of them, too, because we didn't even make it to the first reading. As for example, I do not know, Mrs Nevludová, so let us be fair in this. We know she started about a minute before she was interrupted. All she had to say was, "Good day, honourable Members, honourable Members," and she could normally continue to do so only at the very same time as today's continued first reading. So it's not like we have the laws here for a while. Personally, as a petitioner, I have at least two laws that I submitted in 2018 on the agenda, and they probably won't make it to the agenda at all, and they'll probably never make it to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Marian Jurečka's factual comment is prepared for Marek Výborný. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u24	Thank you. When I hear a colleague Šlechtová here, just like she's here right now, ask us to move fast, so we don't hold things up too long or anything like that, first thing: 20 minutes we're waiting for your ministers to come. The House is standing here for 20 minutes waiting for us to act. Then make sure you're at home first. In the last 14 days, this is the third time the House's negotiations have been extended. Not for us, but for your government members who don't come here. That's the first point. Two: I haven't gotten off in the debate yet. I've been waiting here. Jurečka Marian's been on the board for two years. I'd like to perform in the debate. I'm not gonna prolong it, I've never had obstructive speeches here. [[Disadvised notes from the diaper.]] Look at my appearance in the House. The duration of my average performance is around 12 minutes here. Unlike the Prime Minister, who's able to talk here for an hour and a half, he tells us on billboards that he's not blathering. So please let the debate run rationally here. It's going to be discussed today, and obviously it's going to be voted on, and forgive me for making notes that someone's doing something. We really aren't. And the debate about the program. So you're accusing us that we as opposition have a majority in this House and we're promoting things that you see differently in the agenda here? So who's got the majority here? So don't make a fool out of the people watching this because you've got most of them like three sides here, haven't you? Aren't you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr. Výborný and then Mr. králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, through you to my colleague Kořanová. First of all, I want to apologize for speaking to you here at the time of your factual comment. I'm sorry. But the second thing, and I'm gonna follow up on my colleague Marian Jurečka. As my honored colleague Patrik Nacher likes to say, one day it's convenient, one day it's not appropriate. So once we have a majority here, government, great, and we're pushing it, construction law, and we're doing it. And one day, it's not appropriate, and we're saying that we don't have a majority here. I mean, as a government, you're in some kind of coalition with the support of the KSČM, so at any time you could put the press together. So don't really make fools of us here that we've been stopping some Bečva or something. Two years later, the dog didn't bark, and I don't think it's necessary to be here for a procedure. Let's go to the debate, the debate in question, that makes sense. But don't tell me we've been holding off on discussing these two prints. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u27	Well, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. Now, Mr králíček, then Mr Nacher. My colleague Nevludová is still on hold. [[Melk]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u28	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to speak to Mr Jurečka through Mr President. You sweep your own doorstep first, and then pierce us here when we can talk and when we can't talk. And to Mr Výborný through Mr President. For God's sake, this is not a political thing you're saying here, a coalition or a opposition. This is a social issue, and there are differences of opinion within the various parties. Why are you dragging us into this, that we can include what we ever want? This is a social issue, not a political one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u29	Thank you for your very good opinion. My colleague Patrik Nacher, with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u30	Thank you. My colleague králíček took it out of my mouth. I'm gonna say the same thing. I didn't even know we were going to talk about the coalition-possession today, that we're going to talk about things that aren't related to the three examples that are here. This is a typical proposal that smashes opinions even in those deputies. My colleague Bára Kořanová and I have the opposite opinion. It's a completely opposite opinion. And when there were conferences, Aleš Juchelka and I sat on the opposite side of Bára Kořanová. That means it's not opposition-coalice. This goes across all the clubs, or most of the clubs, or I'd say across all the big clubs. In those little clubs, maybe it'll turn out to be a united one, the vote. So, please, nicely, this isn't a coalition-opposition dispute. And let me remind you again, this point was placed here about three months ago, and as it's still moving on with the covids, it didn't come to that. It's always lined up. I know it was three minutes, two minutes, five minutes, then it was two points before something and so on. That means this is some kind of an outcome. But I'm saying, I'm saying this here as a person who doesn't support it, but at the same time I support the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u31	Well, thank you, but you have raised further factual points, Mr Juchelka, Marek Benda, and a colleague of Kořanová. So I'm gonna calm Mrs. Nevludová down, she's got a little bit of time. [[Melk]] A colleague of Aleš Juchelka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u32	Thank you very much, too. It's just that it's a social thing for some people, it's a very valuable thing for some people. I also think that we should discuss this in the fullest number of Houses. We are here in the number of half, but for example every Tuesday when there are Senate returns, we meet here in the full number of 200 Members so that we can somehow enforce the Senate returns or not enforce them. On the contrary, on this value point, I would expect, perhaps, to include this on Tuesday, after the Senate vomit, so that we can present, in full number of the Chamber of Deputies, every value that has been chosen here by our citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u33	Should I take that as a procedural proposal? [[Member Juchel off the mike.]] No, as a reminder. Okay, I'm scared. Now, Mr Marek Benda, with a factual remark and then a colleague Kořanová, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u34	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was hoping for my speech, but since I will have to go to the Senate in a few moments, where the electoral law will be discussed, I do not know if you will skip me with these factual remarks, so just a brief response. The full number from next week will be already, such a grémia agreement already exists that we will normally go in full number. And the other thing. What are we all playing at here, please? We know neither of these proposals has a majority in this House. Therefore, they were not discussed, so the majority was never found to be included and approved. And now we're here just like we're playing some kind of cultural war. I find it ridiculous, absurd in the situation in which we are all together. But, of course, if part of the government coalition, along with the Pirates Club, thinks it's the best time to have a cultural war here, let him play it out for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u35	I thank you for the time for the factual remark. Mrs Válková, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u36	Thank you. I don't want to delay either. I followed the discussion from another room because I had to deal with something else, but unfortunately, we are moving away from the subject. And I think that when it comes to my turn, I will calm a number of dear colleagues, because at that level of government, it is now in the inter-ministerial review of the LGBT+ strategy, where it is proposed, among other things, in 2022, to anchor the same-sex couples' constitution after such thorough discussions that are currently taking place. It's a debate, it's a resort, some of the resorts are also responding. And I think that's the way to go. When we opened it here today, so be it, but we need to hear all sides. And I'm going to try to introduce you to this side here - but you know me and my relatively conservative approach that everything has its own time and it's step by step - which, of course, wants to be heard here too and which has just been involved in the preparation of the strategy. And I think that then some unnecessarily emotionally heated discussions and attacks that have ever been included could fall away. So thank you for the opportunity, at least in a factual note, to try to calm the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u37	So perhaps this calming down has happened, because Mrs Melková has come to her turn, a colleague of Mr Válek will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u38	Thank you for the floor. It's getting more exciting than having a concert with the Philharmonic. So thank you very much. Mr President, dear colleagues, let me also comment on the issue of equalizing the rights of gays and lesbians in our society, and how I look at the possibility of marriage between them. Marriage is a bond between two people we all understand in our society, we know its meaning and symbolism. The simple reasons why we marry are clear to us. But there are people, friends, colleagues, family members, sons, daughters who have private relationships a little different than we do, but it is a generally recognized and undeniable custom, and it is still with many of us beyond our social standards. I think that right now, however, the time has come for us to send out a clear signal to these people, not only to society as a whole, but also to us legislators to tell them: We know that you are among us, we respect you, we know your needs and problems that are not indifferent to us, and we want to help you solve them. You can lean on us because we want to support and help all our citizens. This attitude can make it easier for people with different sexual orientation to accept themselves, because so-called. coming out can be a very complicated and frustrating time. You ask yourself why registration is no longer enough, and why the LGBT community demands the same rights, even with regard to the possibility of marriage, as is common among the majority population. The answer is simple. We all need recognition. Acknowledging that we are a full-fledged citizen with all the consequences, obligations and benefits that the state guarantees or allows us. We're not born with sexual orientation, we're not choosing it, we can't choose it. I could tell you a lot of stories about my dear friends, colleagues, musicians. For example, two of my dear colleagues, singers and musicians, who did not hesitate to gather up and go to Portugal to marry, where marrying the same sex couples is legal. They left with the knowledge that this marriage would be invalid, so much this decision to be connected to others was important to them. I could also give examples of people who are shy or afraid to confide in their differences not only to their acquaintances but also to their parents. Examples of parents who did not accept their children in this case and broke up with them badly, sad examples for which a change of law could be a solution. These parents, too, need universal recognition for their children, who will be accepted by society without conditions. So I say that marriage is the solution for everyone. This decision does not limit us, it does not degenerate us, it does not reduce the numbers of heterosexual marriages, it does not interfere with high divorce rates, but may instruct us, it will show that marriage is more than a contract that we can break at any time, that it is the basis for creating a pillar of society and that everyone has the right to it, because whether we are purple, blue, gay, straight or lesbian, we are all human beings. Finally, I would like to mention some of the countries that I have discovered regarding the recognition of the rights of the LGBT community and where the marriage of identical sex couples is already legal. Well, for example. in Denmark since 2012, Finland since 2017, France since 2013, Ireland since 2015, Iceland since 2010, Luxembourg since 2014, Germany since 2017, the Netherlands since 2001, Norway since 2009. There are also, of course, countries where marriage of identical sex couples has not yet been legalized, e.g. in Estonia, Croatia, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary and others. If any of you would like to look into this material, it is available. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u39	Thank you, Mrs Melková. Mr Foldyna and Mr Válek will now be prepared with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I was listening to a very sophisticated presentation by my colleague and its content. I will take the liberty of reacting very briefly. If a Christian had stepped up here, he would have told you, ladies and gentlemen, what you are supporting, one thing: you will not defeat bůh. When an atheist comes out, he says to you, "You can't beat nature." And what does the company think? You know, there were a lot of jokes at the end of the last regime. And most of the time, the jokes reflected what the company thought. I'm gonna tell you a joke people have to tell each other today. Maybe he's old. In one village, the doctor sits and says, "Sister, we have a husband named Novákův. And fill out their form. They come to Novákův and say, "Doctor, we want a baby! We do everything we have to do - we eat healthy, we don't drink, we have intercourse several times a day and we still don't have a baby. The doctor fills out, fills out, he's 70, and it's an old practice. He raises his eyes and looks at them and says, "You guys, don't fool around!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague, Válek, is absent, so I'll put him at the end of the debate. Now the Minister with priority rights and colleague Benda, who is to go to the Senate, Minister. [[Arrange for order.]] Well, with priority rights, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u42	Thank you. I apologize very much to Mr Benda, but I was provoked by the speech I heard here, because the speech was said: If a Christian were to perform here. And the MP said what a Christian would say to you if he got out. A Christian is such a very broad definition of who a Christian is. I'm originally from Radslavice in Moravia, the pilgrimage of the hostess, etc., so I kind of feel like a Christian after the ancestors and it was so close to me. But I'm such a bad Christian, let's just say... Excuse me? [[Member Excellent responds from the rapporteur's table: that is not what this is about.]] It's not about that, but that's how I feel about being a Christian. So I was curious about the question: What would a Christian tell you? Well, I've been thinking about how to stand up to it from the point of view of this culture and the tradition that I have in me, and how to actually stand up to it, what to think about it. Because it's always personal in this case. But to me, if I had to answer like that Christian, I wonder if the love of those two same-sex beings is of the same value as the love of those two who are not of the same value. And it seems to me that if I'm a Christian, then I can't think that it's not worth the same. That it has the same value. And that's why, if I think it's worth the same, they're able to create a relationship that I have to take equally seriously. So that's what seems important to me. And when I take children for example and raise children, it seems to me that what children can see most is that they see the building of a partnership and that they can be witnesses of it, which I think should be of fundamental importance to their lives. So it seems to me that if I, like that Christian, say that their love is of the same value, and I can't afford to say no, and I wouldn't really dare, it would feel like I'm very unchristian if I thought that, I can imagine that it has the same and should have the same, then it feels to me that even what they're offering these kids, this relationship, this partnership relationship, is something that's crucial to their lives. And if that happens and they have the opportunity to live with this relationship before each other, which is a built-up partnership, it is absolutely essential for those children: they are learning partnership. And then I think that if we can just create a household like this, that's something I would appreciate, of course, if it exists here in this world uncertain, broken. So that's what I consider a Christian answer. And I think there's one other thing that I can think of that I would mention. Look, I think sex issues are usually overrated in these debates. Because when I imagine different couples living together, such as older and heterosexual, their relationship can often be, it can be asexual, and it actually takes the form of something different from what we have in mind when dealing with a homosexual relationship. And it just seems to me that when I think of the different variations of relationships that exist, and the partners that work, and that are of great value to the people that are around, I think that sexuality isn't quite the key there. If you know what I mean. So it seems to me that building a relationship, the relationship of people who can live together, and they're an example to others, is almost everything to me. And if anyone can create it, it's a great deal of value to society. So it just seems to me that this is also the value that we should put above everything. And to me, this is a Christian attitude. If you can prove that I'm not, I'll listen to you very closely. I've just tried it, like what a Christian attitude is. And you can argue, I'm not forcing you to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u43	Thank you, Minister Zaorálek. Mr Marek Benda, now. Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u44	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will have to be very brief. That's all I have to do, 'cause I'm gonna have to run. And much has already been said and gone. I have the advantage or the disadvantage that I experienced this debate here in 2005, 2006 and long before that, when a registered partnership was promoted, which, as you will all remember, was finally promoted by the then President of Social Democracy, Jiří Paroubek, with the support of his then Marťan, who claimed to vote with them, that is, the Communists. That's when he called them marťan. That's when the registered partnership was approved. The debates that were going on about this were very similar to today, and all those who advocated it, including all those activists, assured: There is no way we want to talk about adoptions, there is no way we want to be equal to marriage. We only want our relations to be legal. We want this respect for society and we want us to have each other's rights in some way. That was 2006. Since then - and I've pulled statistics - the average number of marriages is somewhere between 43, 44,000, up to 57,000. The average number of registered partnerships concluded is 336 from the lowest number 177 to the record year 2016. Somewhere between 0.39 % and 0.66 %. There's no interest between gays and lesbians in getting married. These registered partnerships. What was being interpreted all this time, how it needs the help of a large part of our population, nothing like this has happened. I really don't want to explore the reasons why it's none of my business, and it's totally their business. But I'm just saying, it's no 4 percent marriage. And it's just that we're relatively low on marriage, and we know that almost half of the children grow up in families that aren't married. They're born in families that aren't married. [[10.50 hours]] So I don't consider the whole story that's being presented to us today to be a gay and lesbian rights story at all. This is the story of a cultural war that takes place today in a large part of the West, which is the only reason I feel otherwise deep in the West, the European Union, the North Atlantic Alliance and everything else that leads me to be careful and say: we do not have to try every stupid thing that the West will do. And I say for myself, from this point of view, I will not vote in favour of this next step in the cultural revolution, which is trying to rename some traditional institute and pretend with Orwell that when I name the Ministry of War to the Ministry of Love, it will be better in the country. I don't think so. It's not a discussion about gay and lesbian rights. It's a discussion about the meaning of the word marriage. And so our experience is that if we start destroying the language in this way, renaming the institutes and giving them a different meaning that it will eventually end up being a two-and-a-half-fold higher punishment for a potential racist insult, at least for footballers, than for a deliberate kick in the head. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u45	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Marian Jurečka and Mr Kopřiva will be ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u46	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, when I was thinking about how to start my speech, I looked at the fact that the motto of one of the campaigns for marriage being for everyone here was love. And there's been a lot of references to what's a Christian, non-Christian approach, etc. Maybe I'd start with what love is for me to begin with. For me, this part of the Corinthians defines it the most: Love is patient, kind, not envious, not boasting, not conceited. Love does not act dishonestly, does not seek its advantage, cannot be provoked and does not count injustices. He does not enjoy badness, but he always rejoices in the truth. No matter what, love endures, love believes, love has hope, love endures. Love never dies. And I have to say, when I think about it, I realize that love has many forms and one simple definition in one sentence cannot be said and relate to different situations in life. For myself, I have another love for my closest family, my wife, my children, another love for my siblings, my parents, another love for my closest friends, and I could go on like this. So we can't say that some simple definition of love here is applicable to the things that we want to enforce in legislation, and that it's supposed to be some argument or the main argument. The debate is, of course, very difficult, because it is intimate, very personal, and we are debating it here in a forum that simply does not correspond completely to how these things could be discussed in an ideal situation. But that is Parliament's destiny, and it is the House's destiny. We have to deal with this. We have two very important proposals here. For me, the proposal presented by Marek the Výborný and Group of Members, and I am also from the KDU-ČSL Club and I am the chairman of the KDU-ČSL and it is important to us because we are talking about what marriage means to us. There is a second proposal that says: we want marriage for all, for the same sex, and we want everyone to have the same options and the same approach. And I hear arguments in the discussions about us having a privileged marriage. I don't feel like anyone who's privileged at all. I have to tell you, sometimes I have a lot on my mind - being a husband, a dad, five kids at home. Sometimes you wonder if you cut a heck of a slice. Sometimes you have doubts about yourself. So it's not an easy role as a husband, Dad. But it's a concept that defines what gives us the basic building element of our society. As a person, I can satisfy a lot of personal and biological needs, but maybe the only one quite special and absolutely crucial to our society is the ability to have children. This is simply given by the fact that this ability is given to persons of the opposite sex. By being a person who studied a lot of biology in high school and college, it's just because we have sperm and egg, we have some kind of environment. And we can do that, this sort of thing, just because a man and a woman live together and form a union that has been defined as a marriage for centuries, and which politicians have decided to define long before us and then protect, support, but also give it a clear responsibility. Husbands have a specific responsibility to each other, they have a responsibility to their children, and the state is trying to support them with this. And I wouldn't want us to go into being this clear term, which, at first sight, can come as a simple word - marriage. And we may say it often, but there is a huge number of specific life situations behind it and why the marriage is even incorporated in the legislation. Let's not make the simple confusion of saying, and from now on, marriage will be for everyone. Let's not get into this. I'm very warning about it. I've seen the proposal that lies here like the other House press. I saw the correlation table. And I have said repeatedly in various debates, I am prepared to have a serious, rational, calm debate about how the things listed in that table are prepared to be dealt with in legislation, whether it be a matter of dealing with property relations, whether it be a question of addressing access to sensitive information. Let us discuss all this normally, but let us not change that marriage is really something that specifically names, appreciates, supports, protects the union of a man and a woman who is simply able to create an environment for the birth of a child, the birth of a child, his upbringing, and his good standing in life. Of course, the life stories are different. We see statistics here that many marriages are falling apart, but there's no argument that 47 percent of marriages are falling apart today, that we should resign. Not at all. We have to think about how we can support our parents in this. We're supposed to think about what the reasons are for the breakup of the marriage, the fact that the parents are often full of sneakers: they don't have time for themselves, they don't have time for children, they have failed in some moments of life, they haven't been able to make a living, they've lost a roof over their head, they've become addicted. These are things that we should be discussing, and wondering if, at these moments of legislation, the state was enough to support those people in particular situations of life, and when the situation had already happened, whether we continued to support those parents well. I was here 14 days ago talking about seeing an increase in the number of widows and widowers in covid, young widows and widowers over the past year. And these people may be dealing with very difficult situations where they just process this agenda means for them, like, a loss of income for a few months, and it means, like, a risk of inability to pay off a mortgage and lose a roof over their heads. [[11.00 hours]] These are the moments that I would very much like to have a debate about in practical terms during this parliamentary term. So I'd like us to vote on this debate today - we can't decide it except by voting. I listen to the arguments that come from colleagues and colleagues who have the proposal ahead of them and are signed under them as marriages for everyone. I'm thinking about these things. I am always correct in this discussion, and I must say that I am very upset that in debates on social networks other people do not respect my opinion and grossly and grossly import into me. I always talk about anyone with great respect, I know how to admit a mistake, I know how to apologize. But I'm also here as a politician, a representative of the Conservative Party, and what I'm saying and defending here, I'm convinced, and I'm ready to have that debate until the final vote. And let's let the democratic majority decide, but really, let's not let anybody bullshit me here and say that I'm done with some debate, that it's clear and that we're just doing some sort of reconnaissance here. No, it's a very serious debate for a lot of the people I represent here. It is a very fundamental subject and I have tried very concentrated here - I could talk about it for a longer time - to make the most fundamental arguments why I think that marriage, on the one hand, deserves the protection that we are proposing here, and also the arguments why I say: let's not confuse the concept and dissolve the fact that marriage will suddenly be for everyone. I just can't agree with that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u47	I thank Mr Jurečk, Mr Jurečka, who will now respond to the factual remark of Mr Výborný and the rapporteur Mr Kopřiva is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. After all, I want to respond to the words of the honourable Minister of Culture, who spoke here in the debate a moment ago, and he was talking about the value of love. He may have spoken here as an anonymous Christian. And as a Christian, a politician, a legislator, I want this to be made really clear and understandable: I have never questioned the value of love in a single word. This is not given by how we identify the relationship between two people, whether it is friendship, partnership, or marriage, or whatever. After all, the value of love is determined by the relationship between the two people, and it doesn't matter whether it's a man and a woman, a father and a mother, or whether it's the love and relationship of two people - a father and a son or two siblings or a grandson - or whether it's the love of two women or two men. The value of love is always there, and it cannot be measured by whether or not we allow the two persons to identify it with a concept that we believe truly belongs to the relationship between men and women. But it doesn't question an inch or a millimeter of the value of the love itself. Love is a great gift, a loving relationship can really be between a man and a man, a woman, a father and a son, a husband, but it has nothing to do with whether or not we should call it a marriage. And let me do one last thing. If we are debating that we do not want to grant these rights, I will be the first to support that if any rights are not granted here to partners, registered couples, so that we do so, but within the Civil Code, not by the simple way of refining marriage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Kopřiva will now appear. No? Then I'll erase you. A colleague of Lipavský. Not present. Now, Mrs Šlechtová, Mrs Majerová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u50	Mr President, honourable Members, fellow Members, fellow Members, I would just like to say briefly here - I will now use the word again - but I repeat the arguments why we would essentially like to support this amendment to the Civil Code. I would certainly like to highlight the subsequent substantive debate, which I think is what we were going to do. I would very much like to have no media or public discussion that if this amendment to the Civil Code had been approved, there would have been some greater rights for the same-sex people who would subsequently marry, because that is not the case. It's just that she's really gonna give them the same rights that everyone else has. Of course, I understand the principles of the traditional family, I understand the position of many, I understand some arguments and other activists who do not support this change in the civil amendment, but here we also have to say that we are modern countries, we are in 2021, and it would be nice if we joined the next dozen countries that would be included in countries that have just approved the same sex unions. With regard to children, child education or child education, I can only make legal arguments here, which are also mentioned in the justification of this amendment, but I would also like to mention here my experience, which I shared with the government at the time, the first Babiš government, where my stories actually helped the government to approve it. Because, of course, I myself had relationships where there were children, but unfortunately, I had no rights to them as a non-biological parent. I think that every child should have a follow-up guardian, guardian, guardian whom he knows, who raises him, and I must say that this is definitely one of the key reasons for homosexual couples why the ratio between heterosexual and homosexual marriages should essentially be equalized. I will not talk here about how many members of the LBGT community feel about some heterosexual opinions, virtually. the views of heterosexual people - but I am not just saying them, of course some homosexual people are negative about this proposal for a civil amendment, which is just the case, that is true, of course I admit - but I would certainly like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to consider that we want to put our country's citizens on the same level as regards unions. And frankly, I'd like to get married someday, too, not register. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Šlechtová. Now, Mrs Majerová, Mrs Ožanová will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u52	Have a good day. Ladies and gentlemen, I would probably start by saying here three years ago, when the topic first opened, at the beginning of its speech, and it is a quote from Abraham Lincoln that even if you called the tail a foot, the dog will still be four-legged. And I think it fits exactly into the pattern of what we're trying to make of the word marriage. [[11.10 hours]] The tricolor has written into its program as its main motto that we will return the normal world to people. There's nothing more important in a world that's gone crazy. What's normal now? The normal thing for us is that there are only two sexes. The normal thing is that mommy, daddy and kids make up the family. And the normal thing is that marriage is a union between one man and one woman. And even if all the world's progressives are now calling for the so-called law. An equal marriage, they built on their heads, and even if God forbid they voted here, it doesn't change the fact that marriage is only possible between a man and a woman. A man with a man or a woman with a woman, of course, can make a covenant bond, we have no problem with that, but it is not a marriage. Why? The etymology of the word "marriage" rules it out. The word "marriage" comes from a primordial mural, and the mural is a dual shape that means a man and a woman. The mural is a man and a woman together, just married. Some things can only be created in a combination of different elements. For example, bronze is not copper alloy with copper or tin with tin, but only copper and tin alloy. And so it is with marriage. The purpose of marriage is the creation of a family and the procreation of offspring. And it doesn't change the fact that some marriages remain childless, that half the marriage may fall apart, and that the family doesn't always function idyllically. But it is our duty to protect and strengthen the family and marriage, not to assist in its demolition. Our countries were built and developed on Christian foundations, on Christian culture, education, and morality. Unlike other cultures and civilizations, we are distinguished by respect for the woman and family that we place first in society. Unlike other cultures and civilizations, we have one man and one woman for a sacred marriage, for such a union has proved best for raising children, for preserving the dignity of man, morality, loyalty and love. If we legalize the possibility of marrying people of the same sex, we will hurt and betray our cultural roots and give a hard blow to the family, which is the most precious and beautiful value of our civilization. If you do not believe in the sanctity of marriage, if you ridiculously wish to carve the natural course of things, the repetition of fashion lies about the relative novelty of marriage as you wish. I understand that some nonprofits make up such fantasies and mind blowers very well. And say what you want, write what you want and where you want. Meet at conferences, discuss, do no harm to anyone. But one thing I'm asking of you, don't try to force your fantasies from the annual news into our lives. Don't confuse the children. And don't play God. Please note that the proposal that lies on the table is not the wish of homosexuals, because many of them are my friends, and none of them ever asked me to support it. It is the wish of ideologists, created on order of homosexualists, activists and pressure groups, who hate everything natural, traditional and normal. They only use homosexuals in this battle. The world has gone crazy and the European Union in particular. Domestic rum must not be called rum, not sugar cane. Butter can't be butter butter, 'cause what if it confuses someone? But marriage can be anything at the same time? Can we call it anything? Why? Because we're progressive? Thank you, I don't want to. The world, God, nature, fate, choose, is not fair and does not give everyone the same. Is it fair that you're six feet tall and would like to play professional basketball? You're just unlucky. Is it fair when you weigh over a meter and want to be a helmsman in an eight - row? You're out of luck, too. Do you have a different sexual orientation? Yes, I understand. It's not pleasant, but in some ways you're just unlucky. The progressives are trying to tell us that the right way to do this is to turn the deviation into a standard. But women and men prefer practically all social systems and religions for one reason only, and that is the procreation of children, which is simply two men or two women really won't get along, even if they fall in love to death and even if they call their union beautifully and contrary to the ethymology of this word marriage. And the fact that there are childless marriages, or that even homosexual couples can get a baby in some way, doesn't change anything. You who intend to vote in favour of this proposal may think that you will please someone, and yes, you will. But with your voice, and you know it, you will launch an avalanche that threatens the most precious thing in our society and civilization: marriage, family, children. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to suggest that we end this senseless and destructive point and start doing something more important. I think there's a lot of work and a lot of problems that we really should be dealing with in the last year. And that's not the point, and that's why I'm making a motion to reject this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u53	Thank you, Mrs Majerová. Mrs. Adamová Pekarová will outrun Ms. Ožanová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u54	Thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, I had no interest in speaking on this subject at all, because I thought that I had already said my position in my last contribution, when we discussed this bill many months ago. But I think that some of the performances that have been said here just deserve a reaction because I know they're more than we're meant for outsiders in this room. Not to those who are here right now, but to those who listen carefully, and I would very much hate to make it sound like that all of these often very demagogic and misrepresenting things are left unnoticed by the rest of us and that we are not responding to them. You know, I'm -- and I've said that just then, it's probably been a few years -- even if I'm Catholic, I'm gonna support the marriage proposal for everyone. Although I am also married, what many call traditional, so I will encourage that marriages can be concluded by equal sex couples. And I'm surprised in this regard when I hear here that it's actually something that can't be tolerated when someone else has an opinion, and it's actually turning the whole perception that we're going to some kind of apocalypse, some kind of destructiveness and a threat to all families. Because I have to say, it seems to me that if anything can endanger my family, it's that indifference comes in to one another. That it would be more likely to be another heterosexual who might endanger my family, frankly. I firmly believe that this will not happen, and, of course, I am doing what I can to do, even in the sense that I am caring for the relationship that is concerned. And that's what I think is the basis that goes on to those of the same sex. They want to take care of the relationship that connects them and that they want to develop. And I would like to give them the power to have this opportunity and not to have to listen to what they're experiencing is a perversion, or anything that has already been said here today. [[11.20 hours]] I appreciate everyone as much as those who are married have children. Not everyone will succeed in this marriage, too, to those who are so rampant about this. Then let's respect them too. And it doesn't need to be their choice. They didn't have to choose. And even they - I firmly believe that we agree - have the right to their happiness, have the right to their full relationship and life. Even if they were not given what they wanted. I'm one of them, and I'm offended if that's how some people express themselves. And please also consider the fact that such couples among you, even though they are heterosexual, are. And they're not inferior, I daresay. So please, here are these speeches - which are equally intended for something other than to convince each other here, I am sure that we already know for a long time how we are going to act in the vote, how we are going to vote - let us forgive ourselves, because we may not have to realize this, but they cause some pain to those who listen to us. And they can, they can really feel it and experience it, and I'd really like us to see it this way. I don't take anybody's right to take his opinion either. I think that what many now associate is that if we're not tolerant of marriage to everyone, or if we don't support it, we're actually not pro-Western, so I think that there's actually some kind of manipulation. It's just about tolerance. About tolerance for both these people and the opinion of which one of us has. And I appreciate every opinion of yours, I can disagree with it, I can argue with it, I can make other arguments, but it doesn't give me the right to insult you for that. And I demand the same thing from everyone, no matter what their point of view. I don't think it's that much, and that's exactly what makes us that advanced civilization, that we're capable of this tolerance, that we're able to argue with each other, and that we're able not to do something about it that creates ditches between us. That's all. And the whole company. And I think we're affecting a lot more than many people here admit, and we should remember that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u55	Thank you. I will ask my colleague Ožanová to be patient. Jaroslav Foldyna made a point of fact. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u56	Thank you for the floor. I think I wouldn't confuse the word tolerance for things that involve insulting specific people. We see a man in every creature. My colleague said she was a Christian and Catholic. Well, if we take the heretic interpretation of faith, you might be Catholic, but you're drifting away from the clear word of boží, which is recorded in the Bible and the attitude of the Catholic Church, but it's your opinion. You say you're a conservative political party. That's your opinion, too. You're entitled to it. I was just looking at all the lessons and conservative political parties are based on traditional values. You deny it, but you have every right. I believe (?) that by not wanting to accept the institute of marriage for everyone we want to insult. Above all, in man we see the human being, not the fact that he is someone else's sex. A human being. And to preserve the human being in society, we say that the institute of the family is the institute of man and woman. We don't want anybody's life to be wronged or vilified by it. I think that this is just about the fact that the family is a man and a woman and that the registered partnership is here what this group of people wanted for years, and if there is a shortage or if there are shortcomings and those people have the right to do so, let's change the law on registered partnerships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Colleague Ožanová will wait a bit longer, colleague Bělobrádek applied for a factual comment, then colleague Jakob. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u58	Thank you, Mr President. I think we're talking about civil marriage, family law, which is why I think it's kind of pointless to refer to religion, to the doctrine of some particular religions. I don't think it's entirely right here to talk about marriage for everyone. Of course, this is no marriage for everyone, it is no longer in the Civil Code, we have excluded heterosexual couples who can live together but cannot marry. It's the same that we're talking about some concept that has different cultural subtexts. Of course, there are other forms of marriage in other cultures. There's a polygamy here, for example. This is also a union called marriage in some cultures, etc. I, too, am absolutely convinced that there were unfair arguments in the campaign. Of course, civil law and the state are not supposed to alter people's feelings in any way, that is, love. That's their business, it's none of the state's business. Here we are talking about family law, the meaning of what the state is supposed to regulate, what it is supposed to support, what it is supposed to declare in some way. That means it's not a marriage for everyone, even if it's accepted. Of course, it does not argue with love and feelings either, because marriage can, and it has been so in many cases before, and maybe it is now - it is closed not on the basis of feeling. We have an ideal here. It doesn't always work out. Of course, nowhere is it said that even the possible union of same-sex persons could not break apart, that there cannot be sociopathological phenomena, as is the case with the marriage of the present day. So much for my point. Let's get back to civil law. We're talking about civil unions, family law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jakob's factual point now, colleague Ožanová, is in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond here to what has been said by my colleague, Foldyna. I'm also a Catholic, and please don't tell us what's here and what's not contrary to our faith. As I said, I am a Catholic, I will vote on my conscience, perhaps even differently than our Madam President, but we are also talking about raising children here. And I don't think it's important for someone's sexual or political orientation to raise children. It doesn't matter. The important thing is how much love you give these kids. Christian faith, especially for Catholics, is about love of neighbor. Please don't put your faith in this place, I'm happy to talk to my confessor about it, but not with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u61	Have a good morning. And now, in the general debate, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will speak and Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present a summary of the analysis carried out by Adam Czech Republic, a registered association aimed at supporting people dealing with problems with unfulfilled parenting. I would like to mention and quote from this analysis. [[11.30 hours]] "We share the thesis by the authors of the novel that sexual orientation is not related to the ability to be a good parent. We don't see why they couldn't ask gay partners to foster together. We support this new legal regulation of foster care. But artificial gametes won't get into clinical use anytime soon. A woman and a man as a couple are still needed to conceive and give birth to a child. It is necessary to analyse the ways of homosexual couples to parenting comprehensively, which we lack in the proposal. The submitted amendment thus carries an implicit presumption of the right to a part of another person's body. Without donating an egg, sperm, embryo, or surrogate motherhood, assisted reproduction in homosexual couples cannot take place. Without a thorough analysis of this situation with regard to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine, the approval of the amendment is highly problematic. While the state guarantee of gay couples' access to assisted reproduction allows these couples to experience exclusive legal parenting, at least temporarily, it makes it impossible for them to experience an exclusive psychosocial relationship. It brings shared parenting. If a homosexual couple is granted the right to become a common adoptive parent, it will fulfill its symbolic needs, but practical parenthood will share more or less with the biological family of the child. This will, of course, be the case, and it is basically the adoption of heterosexual couples. When children switch from a previous heterosexual relationship to the full or partial care of a newly formed couple, the situation of heterosexual and homosexual new partnerships is no different. We can therefore not imagine regulation." I dare say that one of the ladies involved in this analysis is a lecturer at South Bohemia University. And I was interested in this analysis in relation to the amendment under discussion, from the point of view that we are somehow forgetting to deal with ethical aspects directly parenting and how to proceed. Because if a gay couple actually becomes a marriage... So, basically, marriage... and they're gonna want a baby, what's gonna happen? How do we deal with donation? How will we deal with possible rental of uterus and so on? I think that we are forgetting a little bit about these other aspects and that we should also focus on ethics and perhaps also look at it from a medical point of view. Thank you for your attention. I assume that we will all express ourselves in the debate, because, of course, I expect the laws to go to committees and this debate will be held there. And I would like the relevant committees to have this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u63	Now, with priority rights as Vice-Chairman of the MP's club, Radek Rozvoral will speak for the SPD and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek will prepare himself with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to complete our President Tomio Okamura's speech, and I would like to make a motion to reject the press 201. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u65	I have here that two Members have already proposed a motion to dismiss. So, in addition to that, he's filing a motion for rejection for the SPD Radek Rozvoral, vice-chairman of the club. Now, then, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights. And then Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u66	Thank you. I'd like to make one more comment. Listening to this debate, I feel like there might be a solution to this debate, because it's not that unconciliable. And it seems to me that there is also some respect for what this House has already adopted in the case of a registered partnership. So I'm wondering if this dispute isn't about the word "marriage" today, if that word hasn't become an object, the apple of contention. Then maybe there's a solution. Marriage, of course, is a historical category. It's been going through various developments. Even in this country and the world. If we married in the Middle Ages, it was an institution, especially for women, that was probably quite very controversial. You can imagine how controversial it is in a number of things. I recall that in some of them women were treated like slaves. But we don't have to go that far. The 1960's also saw some rebellion against the institution of marriage, which also had some further development. So that's a really historical category. It's something that's evolving. Here it may be said that it is a sacred thing for someone, that it is something that is very important for the state to be able to define it at present. It seems to me that I would be tolerant of this opinion, too, because I am not sure that we need to subsume anything under this institution. It seems to me, however, if we have an institute of registered partnership, i.e. couples who have the same sex, it seems to me that the solution is to create for this type of union... strengthen the legal base, I don't know, inheritance laws and the like, and so help her to have a truly dignified position. And I would ask those who suggest this, if they really want to belong to that rather old traditional institution of marriage, which I'm actually saying has its own development, may even seem old-fashioned to someone. I would even expect that some wouldn't even really want to call it a marriage, so they might say, that's something that belongs to me in the past, and I have a lot of reservations about it. To me, it seems to me that it is a matter for this debate to be made clear whether it is insisting that everything is to be under that marriage institute, which maybe we can take seriously and which, let's say, has a certain historical tradition, but perhaps it is not necessary to try to get everything under that term. I can imagine a certain reconciliation that is that there may be another type of union that we try to give or give him the benefits that are appropriate to him. We can agree on that. But we don't have to have a single marriage institute here that we have to get everything under so that this dispute doesn't just end up on that word that some people consider sacred, and so they don't want to tarnish it or get into it the type that they say doesn't belong in that term and doesn't correspond to tradition and history, as they understand it. And that is what I think is perhaps a matter of debate that we can have here and which may be the subject of further discussion in committees, including the argument that the homosexual union is actually a problem for those children - which is a very professional debate, which I do not dare to comment on. [[unintelligible]] And it would need to be clarified what it really means. That is what I think is also for committees and for other work. But all I'm saying here is that there may be a solution in keeping marriage to those who claim to want to keep it as something specific, as a result of certain developments with certain characteristics that they think are unmistakable, and in addition to strengthening the position of those who might name it differently, but at the same time giving them an appropriate dignity with all the belongings, I don't know, heirs and others who are missing today. And that could be a compromise for me that would be civilized. And I can imagine him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u67	Mrs Helena Válková will now speak. Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will try to continue as sophisticated as one of the previous speakers, Mrs Melková, and from a slightly different point of view, but in a similar way to point out the problems that people here are facing in their lives. As many of you know, I'm in charge of the government's agenda - before it was the Ministry, now it's a government agenda, it can be handled - as a human rights agent. And there undoubtedly include the rights of minorities, even sexual minorities, or people with different sexual orientations. When I joined this position two years ago, it was almost two years ago, so I made such priorities and I thought, it would certainly not be my priority because here we have the integration, participation and participation of Rom people in our public life, nonprofits, improvement of their image in society, which was undeservedly very bad, threatened children, at this time there is a seminar on Child-friendly Justice, seniors. We have established - now it is even a committee on the rights of seniors, which we must not reduce only to the recipients of benefits, but they are people with rights to full life even in the final phase of their lives. But I didn't have the area we're discussing today. [[11.40 hours]] That's changed. It has changed because, like any academic worker or one who should have the right to be considered him, I have studied materials, materials and results of research that I have been richly included not only by the team of my secretariat, but also by those who are in our committee who are in charge of protecting the rights of people with different sexual orientation, LGBT+. I don't like that shortcut either. But I did study the materials. One clue for all. I invited the doctor, too, and I talked to him. I was very surprised at how many teenagers and young people - and now I don't think, because I think the attribute of puberty is to look for my orientation in everything, including sexuality, so I don't include them now. But for example, 18-year-olds, 19-year-olds, 23-year-olds end up in psychiatric clinics precisely because they face a number of obstacles in our Czech, unfortunately mostly atheistic, society that seems so tolerant. In that general plane it is tolerant, in that particular plane it is not. That is why the government strategy - no, don't worry, I won't read it to you - Equality and elimination of barriers to the dignity of LGBT+ people in the Czech Republic between 2021 and 2026. That's what I put in an inter-departmental commentary with full consciousness the week before last that's gonna bring about a storm. And I've even moderated the authors of the strategy, because I take responsibility for it, and then I have to explain in case there are no major contradictions discussed and eliminated, on the government, why I suggested such a specific thing. So I'm looking forward to being Minister Benešová, if she gives a major contradiction, for example, to the task that I'm going to quote here on how I'm going to explain it to the government. And that's where it always turns out who has the factual arguments, where the government's policy is headed, and if the agent is a madman who sees a vision, but society is somewhere else, and the government slows it down, or if it's progress in the right direction. There's a whole series of chapters that are there. Chapter Five is called Barriers in Family Life. And one of the measures - because it is, of course, explained what barriers are involved, what people with different sexual orientations in their family life are facing, what are the obstacles that surround them, without us having to know them at all, because we think that they actually have everything and that our society is on and on and on. My colleague, Mrs Šlechtová, has indicated something here. One of those measures that should correct the current situation, when - and another speaker will talk about it, my fellow Member, Mr Nacher, therefore I will not talk about it - would be an analysis, and it has been carried out, of those rights that do not have current legislation. I thank Mr Bělobrádek, by your means, that he has pointed out that we are here to deal not with moral, ethical and religious issues, but with legislation or civil law. And there really is discrimination against these people here, because some of their rights, and not only in relation to international standards that are relatively high, especially European ones, and our commitments, but also what Czech legislation requires us to do, are not in line. There's a lot of them. As we have responded during this parliamentary term, you will be told by Mr Nacher. And now I am going to answer the question indirectly, or rather the call for us to consider a possible solution, including the Member, Minister Zaorálek, by your means, Mr Vice-President. We also tried to find a name to describe the nature of marriage, but it would not be so irritating to its opponent. Opponent. Not an opponent of marriage, but an opponent of the fact that marriage should also be allowed to equal sex couples. But it is precisely because there is a symbolic value, that the representatives of those who ask us to anchor this marriage union and the same sex couples disagreed. That's why we didn't make the proposal after all. But, as I said, more about this Mr. Nacher. So what's on page 31 of this strategy? We had a lot of discussions. Finally, there is measure 2.1.1. - to allow the same sex couples to get married. I'm saying it's in an inter-departmental reminder procedure. The Gestor is the Ministry of Justice, Madam Secretary, and the description of the measure is: "On the basis of the amendment of the Civil Code and related legislation, it will also be possible for couples of the same sex to marry as it exists today, with all rights and obligations. Marriage is an effective solution for the many obstacles and problems that LGBT+ people face in family life at the moment." - I really do have those analyses. I can read them if anyone wants to. - "For this very reason, the strategy prefers this path, not the path of change." - And that's the answer to what we're talking about here, I think. - "The indicator of the presentation of the amendment to the Civil Code and other related laws imposing marriages for identical sex couples." So I am in favour of this debate, of course I have made a certain shift. We all have the right to develop opinions, so I think that... And it's interesting how many Catholics we have here across the political spectrum, so I'm not going to report to what my previous speakers and previous speakers have applied for, though I might. But I think we really have a debt here to the same sex couples to settle their situation. But in the future, after a thorough discussion, allow me one really authentic remark and an authentic sigh over the fact that, while some of our political parties have it in their agenda, it is clear that we will not fulfill the task and approve the law on a national referendum, which would give us a very safe answer to whether our society is really so tolerant, let's say European and belong to the top, or whether we like it or not, we are somewhere else. And we have obtained our mandates, as far as I know, precisely to represent the opinion of the majority and to promote the public and not to break away from the mainstream again and be dangerously far from those visions. That should not be the case in my opinion. So I'm ending my contribution by asking us to keep this in mind. [[11.50 hours]] And that personal remark of mine, yes, I have moved forward in the sense that I will not vote alone to reject this press, but I think it requires a thorough discussion, so if there have been proposals to extend that period by 20 days, I think I will definitely join them. And that again - why don't I say it here on the counter, so that we don't meet any vain hopes of those who might get attached to it, I really don't like it, I'm really more transparent, even though it's sometimes not too popular - that's how we get to the point where I wonder if there's any time printing, even if we move it, to handle it. In any case, however, it is good preparation, because it will also be discussed in those committees. And when it comes to what is in the LGBT strategy, if the government approves it, and it has it now, as I said, in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, and with those who will then appear in the benches of the new parliamentary term, the strategy, or the proposal, will be renegotiated and we will be able to return to it after thorough discussions that have been started again today, or continue to do so, and with full consciousness and conscience to say yes, we want to vote in favour or we do not want to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u69	Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear. Mr. Milan Pour will be ready. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u70	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I have no paper, so I will not read anything. I'm going to make a few comments on this subject, and then I'm going to get to the proposal that's been shaken here several times as a search for a way out and a compromise. What bothers me about this matter, I have to admit, in the long run, they talked about it by colleagues, for example, Marek Výborný, and I'm joining him on this, it's labeling, flattering and insulting. We're just having a debate here. Here, while I've registered, with a few exceptions, I'd say it's being cultivated. Unfortunately, this is not the case on social media. I'm so sorry, 'cause we're not really going anywhere in this thing. This is no way for me to say so, to gain tolerance with some tolerant statement. That means that if someone has an opinion and can have a different one, they'll show it and we'll show it here by voting, we'll show it on the microphone. I'm glad for that, because I said in the original speech, and now I'm going to go back to it, that it's one of the few things where we can get a few votes on our side for our own, if it's head and heel, or if it's a very stupid and stupid performance, then we can give a few votes to the other side. If you look, it's not like that in most laws. That's where I think the vote is clear. That's where the coalition is, the opposition. There's somebody who thinks about it right-wing, left-wing. But in this case, it's smashing in a very liberally conservative way, I don't know how, so at the moment when there's really a flattering thing going on with the fact that who's against it, it's got some label on it, and what I've been reading on social networks in the last few days, so terms like homophobic, unbearable, intolerant are among the more polite terms, but of course the same applies to the other side, so you have to say it. It's just the debate, the public discourse is going on in this very far until I say aggressively and in the end it doesn't do anything. And it's a paradox, which is why I'm talking about it, because the main thing here is some tolerance, tolerance to different things, but it should be tolerance to another opinion. I'm not going to be labeled with this simple black and white look. As you know, I won't support it, I'm saying it openly, I'm not hiding out in the hallway or hiding it. I'm in contact with representatives from both sides, from both poles, and at the same time, even though I won't support it, I supported the call for this meeting, because let's say it's correct, since I'm already writing about the political correctness to discuss it here and move on. It seems fair to me to use that expression. I originally came up with a concept that can be described by the phrase "right yes, marriage no," i.e. straighten those rights, various previous speakers talked about it here, whether it's the joint property of husbands, surnames, the opportunity to marry before the mayor, not before the mayor, two days of vacation, family relations, inheritance and so on, and so on. It just passes a few laws, but it's not to be called marriage. At the time, the concept was built to be called a partnership, not a registered partnership, but a partnership. The only person who has seen the concept of the proposal is the honourable Member Helena Válková, sitting here in front of me, as the agent who saw it. I, after it became the subject of criticism first from one side, then from the other side, from the poles, so I pulled it off, and I'm really not doing any good at this. And it's proof of that, because one of those arguments was that this proposal would sort out the debate here. That either the MPs are for or against it, but that it won't be an evasive move, that there's a third as a compromise option. And I really don't want to defend anyone here. It means, it's there, it's parked somewhere, I'm not showing it to anyone. We're going to do something about it today on these two points, but I thought I'd tell you here how this debate could have evolved at the beginning. For me, it was something on one side "who wants everything, then has nothing" or "we want everything, not something," on the other side "better is nothing but something." Let's just let everyone find their way into it. Otherwise, as far as I'm concerned, and I'm not going to repeat my contribution here, in principle, the name is as inaccurate as they say it's a marriage for everyone. We've already talked about this, I don't want to develop this debate here, I want it to stay on the cultivated plane, but it's not an exact description. The proposal is about marrying the same sex couples, not all of them. Because for everyone, it would mean for all the situations that exist here. And they are here and there are people among us who are needed in more numbers, in threes, even in more numbers, and yet they cannot get married or get married. So if it were for everyone, it would be for multiple... multiple marriages, regardless of age, kinship, etc. I don't want to involve it, but that would mean "for everyone," because even there is the basic argument, when two people like each other, it doesn't hurt the rest of us. So when three or four people like each other, it doesn't hurt me either. So much more to clarify, so it doesn't sound like a marriage to everyone, because that's not the exact description of the situation. To conclude again: I do not support this, but I support the cultivated debate, because the cultivated debate - the cultivated debate, not some insults, some labeling, I guess, when this point is over today, we'll read again this afternoon, which I don't think is the way. It's up to us to tell these people not to argue this way, because then we'll all be deeper and deeper in the trenches and never move anywhere. It's just not possible that when you have a different opinion about something, you have to force that tolerance intolerantness and the aggressive expressions we see there. And I'm saying it's from both sides. So I believe we're gonna finish this discussion in this spirit, we're gonna vote today, no matter what happens. After all, even the third point belongs to the group of social points that we have here, which are constantly moving away, and that is potential censorship on social networks, which, as you can see, is also indirectly related to this. So let's do this boldly. I am happy for the debate despite my clear opinion and thank you. And we'll see that in the future, either at the end of the parliamentary term or in the next one, we may be moving on in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u71	I'll read the apology. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Robert Plaga apologizes on Thursday 29 April for work reasons. And now Mr Milan Pour will appear and Mr Vlastimil Válek will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear colleagues, I have also decided to respond and to take a stand on both prints in a merged debate. As we all know, it has been more than two years since we were discussing the so-called marriage for all the last time on the floor of the House as part of a varied debate by Members at that time. Since then, I have remained consistent in my position on the proposed amendment of the law, although the pressure of LGBT activists has often been considerable. I am opposed to the draft of this amendment of the law, where the institution of marriage also includes persons of the same sex. I am in favour of maintaining the current dualistic model of legal recognition of the same-sex union. In practice, this means that next to the institution of marriage for couples of the opposite sex in 2006, Parliament of the Czech Republic adopted Act No. 115/2006 Coll. another institute for same-sex couples in the form of a registered partnership. I think that's as much as possible at the moment. According to the information available at the time of preparation of this new institute, it was declared to the petitioner of this law that further requirements for legislation at this institute would no longer be applied. But as we all know what happened yesterday, it is not today. Now, after a few years, we have here to discuss the new legislation of so-called same-sex marriage. Many people who send me e-mails are also concerned that if the House approves this amendment, it may signal the preparation of further legislation that may occur in the coming years, and this may be, for example, the law of the third sex, where, for example, a person does not feel like a man or a woman. This also happened in neighboring Germany, where they even built third-sex toilets. However, I will try to think more about the reasons why we are moving in this direction from my point of view, not in a very happy direction. I borrowed a quote from Friedrich August von Hayek, a philosopher and economist. This Nobelův Prize winner for economics for his contribution to monetary policy theory and the economic cycle states - and I quote: "Economic domination cannot be separated from the domination of people's lives, as goals cannot be controlled in controlling resources. What was previously won by war can now be achieved, for example, by spreading false values. In this respect, family institutions appear to be the most appropriate target. The family is the fundamental pillar of the social community." End of quote. I consider the family, I hope, as well as many other Members and citizens, as the foundation of the state and the nation. It is clear to me that the family has been developing over the centuries. In the 21st century, the family faces challenges and, of course, other challenges than those of the past. In the current period of multiculturalism, however, it is necessary to maintain a functional traditional family. It is necessary to defend their rights not only in our country but also abroad. Through the family institute, among other things, the reproduction of the company is carried out in two planes. The first is demographic, the second consists of a certain hierarchy of values. This second plane is associated with the socialization function of the family. The strength of the tradition maintained in society is an essential element defining the state of the family. The disruption of social tradition results in the current decline in reproductive potential. As the various analyses indicate, there is a direct dependence between the frequency of large families and the degree of tradition in society's life. The genesis of the reproductive behavior of the modern type was conditioned mainly by the departure from religious tradition, the processes of desecration and atheism. The importance of a large family, illuminated by traditional religions, has been systematically destroyed. The global character of the secularization process was linked to the trend of the modernization of birth rate. Those civilizations and nations that were able to resist a globalization diversion from the faith and decline of tradition have maintained a high birth rate. It is clear that in Euro-Atlantic civilization, there has been a process of gradual departure from a religiously oriented approach to social life and its gradual transformation into material consumerism in the last three centuries. It is this reinforced trend, emphasising above all the economic aspects of life, that has led to a breakthrough in society and its willingness to have a wider debate, which, at the same time, has broken through rigid attitudes to the social status of previously unequal persons. However, when it comes to adopting children by homosexual couples, it remains a highly controversial topic not only in our society. Despite the phenomenon of global globalization, when the general tolerance rate of most society is rising in general, there are not many such delicate topics that society is currently dividing by opinion, as this is the subject. However, today's society's rising tolerance gradually brings its willingness to openly discuss issues and topics that have been completely taboo until recently. The amendments to the Civil Code are proposed in family relations. There is an effort to enable the same sexes to be allowed to adopt, foster and foster care together. The explanatory memorandum refers to research that claims that children raised by lesbian or gay couples have the same suitable environment for raising children and their successful development. Allegedly, these children have normal social relationships with peers and adults. However, I could quote a number of other foreign studies here that speak of the opposite. For example, the U.S. Department of Labour and Health published an extensive study a few years ago that proves the vital importance of biological fathers for the healthy development of the child. This comprehensive scientific study, ever carried out in the field of homosexual parenthood, found numerous and substantial differences between biological parents' children and homosexual children, with results below averaged for homosexual children in almost every category examined. Yet, there are many advocates of same - sex parenting who claim that children do not need a biological mother and father, defending the practice in which children are born with the intention of leaving one of their parents out of their lives. And I'm afraid that's the kind of purpose that needs to be emphasized. We're not talking about widows, orphans and random pregnancies. We are talking about adults who have thoughtfully decided to bring a child into the world, who will be equally deprived of the possibility of having a relationship with their mother or father or even getting to know them. So what's more important? The feelings and desires of an adult, or the real and natural feelings of a child who was denied the basic, having a mommy or a daddy? I have such a distressing feeling from this law that it can also be used or used to buy identical sex couples for children, because when you answer the question of where they're getting married, it's just that you have to buy them somewhere. And they will deliberately produce semi-sorry women, who will be in the care of two people, but for children they are neither a mother nor a father, to whom they are already entitled by the Convention on the Rights of the Child. But to explain it more closely. My point is that the Czech Republic is very liberal in terms of law in the field of assisted reproduction and anonymous donation. Therefore, I am also convinced that then there will be no problem to arrange sperm or egg through various medical institutions, which means customized for the same sex couples. [[12.10 hours]] I will not support this amendment to the Civil Code, as it is presented, as I said in the introduction. However, I would like to comply with those who ask that same sex couples, today's registered partners, should be subject to similar rules as spouses in terms of inheritance and joint property. Therefore, if the law reaches second reading, then I am only willing to support partial legislation for identical sex couples, which will not only relate to their relationship with children. If the law does not pass by the second reading, then I will be happy to support another proposal that will address precisely the issues of inheritance and the joint assets of registered partners. Although the House's term is almost over, I would rather support and support pro-family policy. If we weaken the family's institute, there will be more children from non-working families. For example, let us support affordable mortgages for own housing for young families, functional shorter periods for mothers, or increasing additions to children, the construction of kindergartens, day care facilities, and a number of other measures. I am very pleased that some of these measures have already been approved by the House in the form of an amendment to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u73	Mr. Vlastimil Válek will now appear... He's not present. So Mr. Jan Lipavský will perform... It's not. That means immediately, yes, Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. There you go. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read here the statement of the National Center for Family, which is as follows: "The proposed legislation constitutes a groundbreaking intervention in the will of the legislator by weakening the current recognition of the importance of biological parenting in the establishment of the family as one of the purpose of marriage and the right of the child to grow up with its biological parents. In Article 12 of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, only a man and a woman have the right to marry and to start a family. The proposal submitted does not fully respect Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, according to which the child is entitled, as far as possible, to know his parents and to be in their care. It should be noted that, given the existing anonymous sperm donation, this right is still at risk in the current state. Nor can the proposed regulation be justified by the statements of the European Court of Human Rights, which has repeatedly expressed itself in the sense that it is not necessary to open up the possibility of marriage to homosexual couples, provided that the rights of these couples are sufficiently ensured. We consider the reasoned report on the amendment to the Civil Code to be beneficial and exceptional because it focuses on marital coexistence as essential for both partners, as a unique opportunity to obtain social status and as essential for raising children. We find it very problematic that the extension of the Institute of Marriage to the same sex couples is at a time when the marriage of couples of the opposite sex is pushed from the sphere of social recognition into the sphere of purely private and that the increase in the number of children born outside the marriage is not a matter of interest to the national family policy. The original version of the concept of national family policy stated that "the State does not support any form of coexistence'. Except for the pressure of one of the political parties of the government of the previous parliamentary term, it was released. Education-educational care as one of the basic functions of the family is not mentioned at all in the concept. According to the signals that state family policy sends to Czech families, we can say that it does not consider the family a source of social prosperity and is satisfied with merely stating the continuing breakdown of families and the lack of birth rate. We find it alarming that society ignores the growing infertility of couples or 23,000 children who lose their cohabitation with their biological parents by breaking up their marriage. Practically unnumbered remains the number of children who lose a complete family each year due to the breakup of unmarried parents. The social climate does not motivate enough young people to realize their family wishes. Biological parenting is too often considered an obstacle to self-realization and is therefore pushed back to an age that is not optimal for a woman from a physiological point of view. The extension of the institute of marriage to same-sex couples puts the opposite sex couples, which represent a majority society, at a disadvantage from this point of view. In view of the above, we ask that the amendment not be adopted.' Then let me go back a little bit to the terms we use here. For example, in the campaign that was for the adoption of this amendment, what I said was that love and all that. Again, standing here isn't meant to judge whether two people like each other, and somehow institutionalized their feelings. But I would also like to point out that the same sex and sexual orientation are essentially confused here. The question of sexual orientation in civil law is not even now, which means that the state does not judge who is sexual orientation when a marriage is formed. That means, if I take this ad absurdum, of course, homosexuals can marry now, and we also know that this is happening. Whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, I don't judge, but there's a possibility. And the other thing. So if we're talking about sex and sexual orientation, then let's not confuse them, because if it's legal that same-sex persons can marry, then of course it allows two heterosexuals who have the same sex to marry. This means that then let us realize what this can mean in the area of law. There's gonna be some kind of state incentive that says married couples have the right to do that, and two straight men say, well, that's good for us, we're gonna get married because we're same-sex people, even though we're heterosexual, but no one's gonna find out, that's obviously everyone's business, and that's not even in that state. That's why there's no talk of sexual orientation at all. This means arguing sexual orientation in this case, in my opinion, is not fair. I'm just pointing out what the consequences might be. This means that same - sex persons will be able to marry regardless of their sexual orientation. That means it'll be possible for two heterosexuals to marry even if they have the same gender.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u75	So now Mr Tomáš Martínek will come forward, so far the last application. But you're still applying, yes... [[Mr Kopřiva reporting.]] Like this, I thought it was the final word, but until the general debate, then? [[Member of the nettle off the microphone.]] The general, too. So the first was Mr. František Kopřiva, if you prefer among the pirát... Okay. So František Kopřiva, Tomáš Martínek, Mrs Kovářová. And Mr Skopeček reported to me a little earlier, but I may have looked left first, so Mrs Kovářová, then Mr Skopeček. I will also read an apology - Minister Marie Benešová apologizes for work reasons for the rest of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. At the beginning of my speech, I am summarizing because I am not sure if these proposals have been made in a procedural manner, so I will sum them up for myself. I therefore propose the rejection of House Press 201. Then, if this motion of mine doesn't pass... [[The noise in the hall.]] One more time -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u77	Wait a minute. Mr. Ambassador, for the pirát, you're proposing the rejection of the 201 press? I'd be surprised.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u78	He's already there, sorry, he's already been there several times from the past and from today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u79	But you're not suggesting it, but others are suggesting it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u80	I'm not suggesting it. It's already designed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u81	Yes, you would have surprised me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u82	Anyway, we're going to vote on it, that's for sure. I propose rejecting House Press 211. If this proposal does not pass, I propose extending the deadline for committee discussions in the House by 211 by 20 days, and at the same time, because the rapporteur of the second House press has already proposed a shortening of the deadline in the House press 211, I will propose the same with the House press exactly 201. So I propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions in House Press 201 by 45 days. If this proposal fails, I suggest we shorten by 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u83	I shall only warn you that such a period cannot be shortened by more than 30 days if at least two Members' clubs or 50 Members object. I've got it marked. Otherwise, we have a motion to dismiss the press 211 from your President Ivan Bartoš. It's been said before, but it's been marked.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u84	Thank you, Mr President, for the clarification. I'm glad it sounded like that one more time. We've got it all figured out now. I think all the voting proposals have been made. There may be some more, but for us the translator is probably all I've had a chance to talk to my colleague. I would like to make a brief statement. I had my speech ready, but since I said it here about two and a half years ago when these proposals were first discussed, I will not repeat it here, unlike some colleagues and colleagues. I think the arguments have already been made by the crosswords here at plenary, on various round tables, on the petition committee, in the media, the debate has been going on for three years. I think we're all familiar with the pros and cons arguments. About the obstructions we've been discussing. This is, of course, a traditional part of parliamentary culture and it is legitimate, I understand. However, it must be borne in mind that for these two merged prints, the press in the merged debate, so they are both submitted to quite a number of Members. For the proposal, the Parliamentary press 201 is almost 50 Members from six clubs, which is quite a lot. There's not a whole lot of them on the second proposal either. And I was sorry it had been here this long, considering it wasn't the government versus the opposition or the right versus the left. It was presented from the right, from the left. Parties called liberals, parties called conservatives. And it really is, as it has already been said here, a value thing. And I think that as Members and Members, we should not support the stereotype, that there is only talk and that there may be little working here. It's our job to comment on these things, we have the buttons in our desks to decide by vote. So I think it's time today to stop sticking your head in the sand and unload your cards, everyone express themselves openly with their vote, we can vote to reject the proposals, so we can clearly divide on that axis. As has also been said here, I agree with some speakers from the opposite camp that there are more kinds of love, but there is only one partner, where biology simply does not distinguish. And of course, we don't want to - and I believe that the submitters don't want to - break into people's bedrooms or normalize or interfere with something traditional that's biologically given, because that love between two people is created, no matter what we vote here. We're talking about a marriage institute that's either religious, but that's not what we're talking about here either, we're talking about the state, which is state guaranteed rights and obligations. It's to protect those families, and I'm convinced that all families deserve the same protection from the state. All families should have and all partners and parents of those children should have the same rights and responsibilities to themselves, to children, to the wider family, to the state. And, of course, marriage is a cultural construct. We're the only species I know who invented the marriage. I'm not an anthropologist, but I guess, like a lot of other things, marriages were probably created in parallel in more cultures at different times. As has already been said here, it has different forms, historically had different forms. But in this current concept, in that state union or state guaranteed union, there is really only a question of making lasting ties between two people, and I think it really doesn't matter if there is that love between partners and children, towards even a wider family, which, by the way, also concerns, because registration can't possibly go to a wider family unlike marriage, so I believe that in the 21st century the state should actually guarantee the same rights to all families and require the same responsibilities. And that's why I think we should move on - a proposal for marriage for everyone. Anyway, I'd probably start saying the pros and cons again. I told you, we could still have another class here. Now, I'm going to say something that seems to sound like I'm against myself, but I'm really going to respect it if our proposal to amend the Civil Code is rejected. I think it's going to be a hundred times better situation than when it's being evicted here by the public. Forgive the deadline, but it's been going on for three years. And that we're sticking our heads in the sand before that. And just the public - and now we can hit each other with different polls. I think the more relevant surveys show that it has support in Czech society, marriage for everyone. But, okay, there may be different interpretations, but I think the public has the right to know our opinion, every one of the MPs sitting here. So let's lay our cards on the table and finally vote today, so far it looks that way. But I koukat that there are still applications from other colleagues who want to express themselves. But we still have quite a bit of time here today, if there's another twist, I'm sure there's a way to propose a meeting after, like, 19 and 21 o'clock. But I don't think that's gonna be necessary, so I'm not suggesting it now, and I'm gonna end my speech with this. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear ministers, if there are any, thank you for having this opportunity to discuss it again today. And please, all of you from both camps, let's vote on it today. That's what I think will be best for all of us, no matter what our opinion is. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u85	Now a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, Pavel Bělobrádek. And then Mr. Tomáš Martínek is ready. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond here with a factual remark to my colleague Kopřiva. It's a terminology issue, but I think it's pretty substantial. He doesn't listen to me, but I guess it doesn't matter. However, I think it should be heard here. It won't be a marriage for everyone! It won't. It won't be a marriage for everyone and let's not call it that! Because people are already excluded in the Civil Code, even heterosexuals who are not biologically related cannot get married. For legal reasons. It's a legal issue. And so if you're saying that all those relationships that are should have the right to marry, then why aren't polyamorous relationships in this proposal? There are families here if we call them where there are more people. More women, more men, live together, have children together, have relationships, even intimate - so why not them? Why can't he be here in that case, and if we argue with what you say, there can't be polygamy or polygamy? So it's not the terminologically in any way a marriage for everyone. Please, let's not call it that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u87	Mr Tomáš Martínek will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u88	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, since the opinions representing the people who are not directly affected by the Parliament's amendment to the 201 press have generally fallen, I would like to read a letter that has come to you from a person directly concerned: "Hello. I've decided to address you because today, that's 29. 4. 2021, you will vote in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on a new definition of marriage. However you vote, I would like to share my story with you and explain why this vote is very important to me and my family. 14 years ago, I emigrated from the Czech Republic. I lived in Norway and the UK, and eventually I landed in Sweden, where I am now finishing my doctorate. I chose all three countries for one reason: Unlike the Czech Republic, I can live a full life there as a lesbian. Exodus LGBT people from the Czech Republic is quite unknown phenomenon, but from experience I know that there are many of us abroad. We are moving because we are second-class citizens in the Czech Republic. We have partners and partners and, in many cases, children, but the state does not recognise us and does not offer the same legal protection as heterosexual couples. A registered partnership even makes it impossible for us to become a common parent, which is unconstitutional. At the same time, our relationships aren't much different from the heterosexual ones. We arrange to live together, some of us take care of our children, and we go through the same hardships and joys as everyone else. [[12.30 hours]] My greatest hardship at the moment is the loss of three children due to spontaneous abortion, and my greatest joy is the opportunity to marry my wife, my long-time friend Charlotte. We got married at City Hall in Sweden four days ago. Originally, we wanted to get married in Moravia so that my 90-year-old grandparents could come too, but eventually, because of the Covido and the hesitancy of the Czech government, they participated only through Zoom. As soon as we get the vaccine, we go to the Czech Republic, where if there is no pandemic, then we are several times a year. By crossing the border, however, Charlotte suddenly will not be my wife and we will lose our rights and obligations, which are commonplace in Sweden. We also live in uncertainty as to how it will be when we have children. It'll have to work someday. After the birth of our child, my wife and I will automatically become parents. But only in Sweden. If Charlotte gives birth to a child, my family in the Czech Republic will be legally completely foreign to them. Our children will not be entitled to Czech citizenship and will not be able to inherit property from me automatically. Unfortunately, registered partnerships do not solve these problems. I would never want to register, because it would make it impossible for me to adopt children, and I find registration humiliating. I'm not registered, I'm married. I don't have a partner, I have a wife. Why am I denied my full life by crossing the border into the Czech Republic? The distribution of people by sexual orientation is long past, and once a marriage for gays and lesbians has to pass. Why not today? Hundreds of Czech children grow up in identical sex families, which solve even more serious problems. If a biological parent dies, the child may be removed, resulting in disastrous consequences not only for the other parent but especially for the children. If my wife or I suddenly died on one of the frequent visits to the Czech Republic, what will you do with our child that we are raising together? Will one of us be able to take him back home to Sweden? I ask you to carefully consider all the advantages that the proposed amendment will bring. It won't hurt anyone, but it'll help a lot of us. Thank you for reading and I attach two photos from our Saturday wedding for an idea of how much happiness you could bring to many couples. Respectfully." [[The speaker's voice is failing.]] You all have this letter with the photos attached. I would just like to add that I would also like to live in a country where everyone has the same rights and can all get married. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u89	Now two factual points, Madame, so one moment. First, Mr Pavel Plzáka will then be prepared by Mr Pavel Bělobrádek. So it's your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u90	Good morning. I'm going to see my foreman, and I'm going to check on my colleague, Professor Válková. This has been dealt with here several times, and it is not true that a child who lives with two or such couples will be taken after the death of one of the parents, even if it is the biological one. Professor, tell them how it is. The court always decides most for the benefit of the child, and, of course, when the child lives in a common home and is raised by the two parents, by the couple, he always decides to keep the child with the parent. Then write to the lady that she doesn't have it that way, and I hope it doesn't spread about us somewhere in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u91	Mr Pavel Bělobrádek will now appear and prepare Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u92	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna say what Mr. Plzák said. Of course, there are judicatures today that if one of those partners dies, he will decide for the best benefit of the child. It means, it's not that the child is automatically taken away or anything like that. That is, of course, nonsense, and the judicatures are. And the other thing. I understand someone may be offended by that term registered. That's what we heard in the campaign. Only cars are registered. In that case, I think several million of our fellow citizens who registered for vaccination must be offended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u93	Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear and Mr Jan Skopeček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment briefly on House Press 201. We have heard various opinions from colleagues and colleagues, Christians or Catholics or from other groups. I have chosen a slightly different approach to this bill. I look at him from the perspective of a mother and an empathetic woman. As a mother, I love my child above all else, and nothing ever changes. As a future grandmother, I will love my grandchildren no matter what sex their partners will have. As an empathic woman, I can put myself in the position of parents whose children do not have some of the same rights based on their sexual orientation as others. Therefore, I would like to address those of you who are not yet firmly determined or are not strictly defined in relation to this proposal. Please try to look at this proposal from the perspective of mommy, grandmother, father or grandfather, whose children and grandchildren will find a mate of the same sex and want to marry him, want to start a family and live the way their neighbors live. Imagine that your children or grandchildren would not have such rights. And please consider whether you would not want these rights for your children and grandchildren in this case. If you look at this proposal from the point of view of parents or grandparents, your decision will be much easier if you hesitate to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u95	He's getting off now... Yes, one factual point - Mr Pavel Plzák and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u96	Let's do this one more time, maybe for the last time. It's my previous speaker's comment again. It's still said here that some rights are being denied. I don't know which rights are denied, maybe someone here will tell me, but I know it's often mentioned that there's a problem with the inheritance, that it's a problem to know about the health of your partner, etc. It's not true. As a doctor, I can tell you. If one of the partners is admitted or anyone is admitted to the hospital, he chooses the person to whom medical information is given and is not given to anyone else, even if he is related. Only to whom he lists, to whom he lists the contact, from whom we get the password, to whom we can provide information. So it's a completely false argument and I'm begging you not to use it again. And if anybody has an inheritance problem, I think that by changing the law, we've somehow strengthened the power of the will, and today, actually, the will, unless you really have any children that you would have left out of that will, almost anyone can inherit from you. And if there are any other rights we deny them, we can talk about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u97	There. Real remarks - Mr František Kopřiva and Mrs Helena Válková. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My last previous speaker reminded me that I forgot one more important thing. I'd like to answer that question with your help. Yes, we're actually here at Parliament's Press 201, at the amendment to the Civil Code, to marriage for everyone, not talking about restricting any rights by our proposal. Because our proposal doesn't take any rights away from anyone, and it doesn't restrict rights. I fully respect the other camp that doesn't want to change the definition of marriage or allow all couples who love each other to enter into marriage, but we don't take rights, we don't restrict any person. If anything, we're opening this institute with a state guaranteed to other people, so I'd say we're expanding it. Yes, it does, but it's rather expanding. But that's not a man, that's a state, a civil code given by the institute. [[12.40 hours]] I'm not married yet, but I hope that one day I will, and I'd like the same-sex couples to look forward to doing the same. And as has already been said here, I'm also joining colleagues whose heterosexual union, the possibility of couples having the same sexual option of marrying, our unions will be in no danger. I wish all people weren't divided into two categories, but they all had the same attitude. If two love each other, they should be able not to register undignifiedly, but to establish a marriage institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u99	Now, on the point of fact, Mrs Helena Válková, and Mr Jan Skopeček is still prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u100	I did not want to delay at all, but on the one hand, Mr Plzák, by your means, asked a question here, which I think has been answered very satisfactorily. So it doesn't have to worry about the case-law, not just about the case-law. On the other hand, for information, these are the differences that we should eliminate, and which are precisely what our strategy is now in the inter-ministerial area, and what was in the proposal that Mr Nacher, through you, Mr Vice-President, has been explicitly adjusted - even if it was still to be achieved: the absence of common property, common rent of the apartment, social security differences, access to survivors' pensions, the transfer of entitlement to sickness benefits or other benefits, then, of course, the position towards children. So there really is a lot, those regulations that are very disadvantageous at the moment, in my opinion unfairly, those who live not only in the common home but also in the partnership, in the registered partnership, and are at a disadvantage because of a different sexual orientation by not being able to join the marriage. So it's true that there is a disadvantage here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u101	So now Mr Jan Skopeček will speak and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u102	Thank you very much. Me very briefly. There's a lot of arguments going on here, I'm not gonna go on spreading it, I'm just gonna be happy to get to know my attitude. As a conservative, I consider the traditional family to be the cornerstone, the foundation stone of society, and I believe that no other form of coexistence or modification of interpersonal relations can replace the traditional family as the core building stone of society. That is why I think that marriage, a traditional marriage, deserves an extraordinary level of protection, and that is why I have co-signed the Výborný colleague's proposal. The state regulates the relationship between men and women with the aim, in particular, of ensuring an ideal environment for raising children. When we look at the definition in the Civil Code, marriage is concluded with the aim of starting a family, raising children and supporting one another. In my opinion, that's only possible on the basis of - or between a man and a woman. That is why I think that the state is also approaching relatively strict regulation of these relations. When we realize that this is really a very strong intervention of the state in the freedom of two people, and the regulation is really very expressive. That is why I think and therefore, as a person influenced by classical liberalism, I am able to acknowledge it and I am able to accept it and I see the meaning of it, because that is why the state wants to insure the fundamental building block of a society which, in my opinion, cannot exist without it. I am certainly a man who confesses freedom, let each one live according to his own interests, according to his own imagination. None of us care how other people live, who they live with, how they live, I am able to sign and support everything. I am even able to support any facilitation of cohabitation of the same sex couples, regardless of medical awareness, regardless of any property obstacles they face today. I'm sure these are the things I'm happy to give my vote to, which I'm happy to help change to make life easier for these people. But this has nothing to do with the institution of marriage, which is here for completely different reasons, which is not here to facilitate access to information in the hospital with two people to facilitate property transfers with two people. Marriage is really for something else. And let's not confuse those goals, because then the whole debate and the clues of it are completely flawed and misleading. Marriage is not really here to make it easier for two people to communicate with the authorities and deal with things that the state has to deal with at some point in its life. So that's why I'm going to support the constitutional anchoring of a traditional marriage, but as I say again, let everyone live as they want and as they see fit, and I'm very happy to support any amendment to the law that will make things easier today for the same sex couples who live together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u103	Mr Lubomír Volný will now be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u104	[[He comes without a drape.]] Hello, ladies and gentlemen, hello, friends and friends live. I have a few questions to start with. Are homosexuals and members of the LGBTQPR community human or subhuman? Mr. Kopřiva, are you human or are you subhuman? Are homosexuals and members of the LGBTQPR+ community capable of any feelings, or are they heartless beasts? Maybe the absent MP Lipavský - is he capable of feelings, or is he a heartless beast? Are homosexuals or members of the LGBTQPR+ community able to love or are they just interested in physical experiences? Are homosexuals and LGBTQPR members able to love children, or are they just fashionable? If you answer any of these questions wrong in the Czech Republic in 2021, you will be prosecuted. Some see this as a legitimate intervention in freedom of expression, some see it as a restriction of freedom of expression, but the fact is that in 2021 in the Czech Republic, the LGBTQPR+ group is perfectly socially and legally protected, because this Republic and this nation of Čech, Moravan and Silesians are absolutely tolerant and comes out to meet this community in the most possible way. [[The speaker is turning to the President.]] I would ask the President to remain silent and not make calls when I speak. Mr. Okamura, please stop calling or turn off your microphone! So if you weren't cowards in this Chamber of Deputies and left a referendum law on ice for three and a half years, then our homosexual, nonsexual, whatever we call it, community could have collected a hundred thousand signatures in a single week and you could have offered this topic to people to decide. You yourself believe that these polls speak for their approval. Some people don't think they'd approve. Personally, I wouldn't dare bet on either side. But it is you, pirát, who murdered the referendum by asking for two million signatures. It is an YES that has blocked the referendum negotiations. It is the ČSSD that has blocked the referendum negotiations. The law's been here three and a half years. It's the conservative part here on the right, like the TOP 09, which is very hot for these marriages, and these are the enemy referendums. You could have done it long ago, we would have known what the people of this country wanted and what they didn't. And you refused to give them that right, this House, in three and a half years. And now we're back here arguing about what people are supposed to decide for themselves. And not some 200 elected MPs, but half, because you intend to make it a political issue in the election campaign. That's unfair to the homosexual, nonsexual community. You treat them unjustly, and you take away their right to learn very quickly what country they live in for them. Whether they live in a friendly or hostile country. [[12.50 hours]] Why do I use this LGBTQPR+? We all know what LGBT is. Those are lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals. Q is queer. That's almost all. P are pedophiles. What's R, I don't know either, and that plus means anything could be there. And why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it because this is where we started fighting for the rights of juniors at partnership level. Some people are offended by the name, some people don't care, because those dozens of people are actually registered every year. The second step that should never have happened is marriage. We already require marriage. The third stage that should never have happened is adoption. And I, as I haven't been wrong many times, will tell you what's going to be the fourth grade. The fourth stage will be what is happening in the United States and what is happening in some Western European countries, and that is the preference for adoption. That you get extra points for being a gay or a lesbian couple. It's happening in the United States, it's happening in Western Europe. But don't be mad at me, even my gay friends - unfortunately I don't have any lesbian friends, I'm sorry if anyone wants to make friends, so I'm publicly available on the Internet. However, your homosexuality is not an advantage to the child. Your homosexuality, or your nonsexuality, if you live with animals or something like that, is your private business, but it's not an advantage when it comes to adopting children or raising children, because nature just arranged it so that only mommy and daddy have children together. Female and female. I would like to add, for example, a proposal by KDU-ČSL, in that their proposal should be written: a biological man and a biological woman. Because the moment there's no biological, you're gonna have a lot of transgenders and transgenders demanding the same protection as biological father and biological mother. Those demands never, never cease to grow. Why? Because the people who now lead Western society and our society into destruction are the constant perpetrators of good. And those who did good ten years ago by enforcing a registered partnership are already outdated for the new generation of perpetrators of good and revolutionaries that he represents here, through Mr President, Mr Kopřiva or Mr Lipavský. And the new generation is dissatisfied, and she wants to add something to it as her memorial. So now they want to add the marriage to it. But the next generation that comes after them will be dissatisfied again and will want to add some added value to it. And that's at least the adoptions, or it's the adoptions with preferences for being a gay couple. Because we are about to get there by then, such a political culture that, in essence, only minorities have a right, but when you are a majority member, your duty is to discriminate positively in favour of those minorities. But this is about the kids for the future. Those kids are supposed to have the right to a full family first. And the production of children for homosexual couples is the abuse of children and is against their human fundamental rights. Because when two gentlemen rent a uterus, they abuse their child who will never know his mother. When two ladies borrow sperm, they abuse their child who will never know her father. I can't imagine not knowing my identity. That I wouldn't know who my mother was for the rest of my life, who carried me under the heart or who my father was. Who I'm from. Who's his father and father's father? And all of this by making babies, stealing from your children, and that's how you abuse them. Homosexuality may be a gift to someone, a curse to someone. But if you know you're gay or lesbian, it's your duty not to want a baby because nature doesn't want it. And when you admit your own homosexuality, admit your own inability not to create (?) a child without his abuse and without his mental mutilation. No, it's not right to be in a lesbian couple and hide your child's father three children, your siblings. That's the height of selfishness. It's better to get a chihuahua or a rabbit, and not a kid as a fashion add-on because I have some maternal instincts. Then push them in. I hope that we will never see the institutions that decide who will adopt children prefer homosexual couples to heterosexual couples for political and ideological reasons, because it will be child abuse. It's child abuse again. What's always in the best interest of the child will be just a man and a woman, so that the child can follow both male and female patterns. Yes, it was very well said here that it wasn't just a marriage for everyone, but to that point, it's going to be just every ten years, every five years after it takes on those turns, such a concession... well, I don't want to make too much of a fuss, but at least one person in the United States goes to work in diapers because he's identified as a baby, and he's terribly surprised that other colleagues feel it's quite negative. But he's so protected in the United States that no one can fire him from the job. And that's what happens to us, unless we stand hard here and on every other occasion that marriage is a relationship between a biological man and a biological woman and nothing else, and that the right of children to know their parents is superior to the right of any homosexual or lesbian or transsexual or pedophile to have a child. Because sooner or later, we will indeed work towards the pedophilia that is secretly tolerated in many Western European countries because of the Muslim community. And if anyone says it's not true, he's lying to himself. In Germany, cases are documented where the state does not interfere with marriage to minors, and yet it is rape. It's not sexual abuse, it's child rape. And gradually this will be legalized. And our job is to slow it down. Our job is not to allow this border to fall today or in this House. And if you don't agree just because Lubomír Volný says so, please take some technical information and explain two things to me: why do you think those activists won't move on in five or ten years when they've always moved on and they've always been. And then explain to me why you think that if a child doesn't know his father or his mother or if a court has the chance to put a child in a heterosexual family, a mother and a father, or a homosexual one, why it should be better for the child. Give me some psychological studies or give me some reason how you know why you think that. [[13.00 hours]] You say, unloving father, unloving mother and loving aunt and aunt. Okay, but that's what the authorities are here to decide if your parents are okay, adoptive or not. And they're going through hell to get custody of a child. And if there's just two equal couples, the gay guy just has to be unlucky because he's not mommy and daddy. It's not what nature wanted. Mr. Výborný here wept over attacking conservative Christian views on social networks in relation to wanting to legalize marriage as a relationship between men and women. She's inconveniently nodding at me here, but I was listening to your conversation. And I'm sorry you didn't cry so much when someone else defended other conservative opinions about legitimate criticism of Islam, mass immigration, government regulations that you voted in favour of the pandemic law, that you voted against experts speaking here. And for that, I was attacked, too. Just for defending conservative opinions. Because maybe mass immigration isn't consistent with conservative opinions. But you're nodding with disapproval. Apparently, you can't be attacked for your conservative opinions, but I'm allowed for my conservative opinions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u105	Time. So we have 1:00. I'm calling a break for an hour and a half and I'll see you back here at 2:30. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the merged debate. If my information is correct, was the Volný Member interrupted in his speech? So the MP will continue. Did anyone ever warn you today, Mr. Ambassador? [[Member Free off microphone: Not yet.]] I'm just asking. Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u107	[[He comes without a drape. A reminder from the newsstand.]] Bonzo! That's between us. Why are you getting involved?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u108	Okay, here comes the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u109	Okay. I was almost done, however, because the break was quite nutritious and caused a number of reactions, so I realized that people not only on the air, but apparently here in the House didn't listen and didn't understand what I was trying to say. That's why I'm gonna try to do it again. Two lesbians wrote to me. One of them wrote to me: "What you said is the worst shit you could say. As a woman, I have the right to have a child. No matter whether I'm gay or not. I still don't care about you, but after this, you've fallen to the very bottom of modern society. Shame on you." I don't know if having a child is a right, I really don't know if it's a fundamental human right or if it's in any legal order. But of course, if this woman is biologically able to conceive, carry and give birth, then she can carry and give birth. I didn't say anything about her not doing it. I just pointed out that if he lives with his lesbian girlfriend and doesn't tell his kid who his father is and doesn't let him get in touch with his father, then he's harassing the kid because he's violating his fundamental rights. So if you're watching, dear lady, you can have a baby and act according to all the options the law gives you or society. That means love him, care for him, disown him, live in a household with a man, with a woman with whomever you want, but don't torture him. Don't torture him by hiding who his father is and by not allowing him to contact his father, because in that case, you are a criminal to me and the mud of society. Then another lesbian wrote to me. She wrote to me: "Hello - and I will not weep. Hello, Mr. Volný. Thank you for your political attitude in this situation. I'm rooting for you, and my family's gonna vote for Free Block. You got a little bit in my heart today. I started listening to your live broadcasts from the House about marriage. Ugh! You know, I don't know why it's been so much work lately, and it's been going on and on, and it's making something that I don't think it's at all. Because I have a personal experience, I know what I'm talking about. My family is me, the partner and the daughter I gave birth to 20 years ago, and she's been growing up in a family model her whole life. I'm 45 years old, I've never met a nigger in my neighborhood. I'm a good, decent, hearty person, and I have people like that around me. My parents supported me all my life and my grandparents back then. So I'm really a stranger to some resentment, misunderstood, hatred, and that's why I can't understand it. I don't understand what's happening now. I don't give a damn what other people decide about us because my life isn't gonna affect anything. I have everything I wanted, and I have a happy life and a family. To me, the most important thing is family, love, respect. It's all in my family. You know how a lot of heterosexual relationships work and how many times they treat kids. That's unacceptable to me, but nobody wants to do anything about it because it's natural. And there's one thing I don't understand yet. So if homosexuals can't have the same rights, why must they have the same responsibilities? Otherwise, I'm going to add that my partner and I definitely don't apply to those people who, like perverts, jump in parades, and the state subsidizes them, or we, taxpayers. Well, that's about it. I just wanted to say hello and say a few words on the other side. I wish you all the best of luck and strength. Ms. Jana." Mrs. Jana listened to what I said. A lot of other people didn't listen and included me again with insulting and aggressive statements on social networks that KDU officials here complained about. I'm not saying homosexuals are worse than heterosexuals. All I'm saying is they're not better. They're no better at anything. And if anyone claims that homosexuals are better parents, they're basically xenophobic and racist. They're not. We're all the same. We're all equals. My point is, in the future, that someone homosexual for political and ideological reasons is not a bonus and an advantage for deciding who will be given a child after divorce, when he will decide between a majority and a nonsexual couple on who the child will be placed in custody. Because it can't be like that. And we're supposed to build a dam tonight to make it clear that we don't agree that we want people to be really, really equal, and that we're standing in this dispute, not on the side of heterosexuals or homosexuals, but on the side of children. Because it's about these kids, it's about their basic right to know their parents and hang out with them. And again, if some gay or lesbian makes a kid somewhere to hide who his mother or father is, and doesn't make contact with him, they're criminals. And they're social mud because they wanted to satisfy their need at the expense of their child. Activists deal with alleged rape at the pirate clinic, politician filed a criminal complaint. The community of Prague activists deals with alleged rape, which was to take place in the social center of Klinika in Žižkov. SdruWomen, whose member was allegedly raped by a transgender activist, reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly reportedly. I'll translate it: a woman with a penis. The victim did not wish to deal with the matter through the police, but the criminal report was filed by the deputy mayor of Prague 3 Alexander Bellu. The excitement in the community of the Žižkov Social Pirate Centre Clinic caused an open letter published on Facebook by the feminist teams of SdraWomen and Empty Thrones. In a letter from the author, she claims that transgender activist Marie F raped one of the members of the organization. Before that, she was supposed to admit on her already deleted blog that she had previously sexually assaulted another woman. "We do not want to lose any work done in favour of oppressed people in our country, but we consider it necessary to make public notice of the gross discrepancy between the claimed attitudes and the real behavior in real life," Sdružena explains the intention of the open letter. Marie F tried to cover up the incidents and avoid confrontation. "We also think that she is an active member of the community, which is often presented in public and which should also bear the consequences of her behavior," said one of the members of SdruŽen for iDNES.cz. The victims don't want to deal with the matter through the police. Although the rape charge was published on a social network with the name of the alleged perpetrator, no criminal charges were filed at that time. Because of such a procedure, a sharp dispute broke out in the discussion under the letter. "We're not gonna give a press release on the victim's request, and as far as we know, they're not gonna file it either. We think it would be traumatic for raped people if we didn't respect their request," she explained. [[14.40 hours]] Why am I informing you of this two-year-old incident? Well, because the perpetrators of good have made it so far that they prefer to be raped and not dealt with in public so as not to harm the good they do. Many cases of women and girls who have been raped by illegal migrants in Europe who have not reported -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u110	Ambassador, I don't do this often, you know that, but I'm leading you to the point. I really don't know what this has to do with discussing the amendment to the Constitution. So I'm warning you, I'll take your word for it if you continue this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u111	I'll explain it to you right away. The point is, if we don't stop here right now from suggesting that the marriage of young men should be on the same level as the marriage of heterosexuals, we are committing a positive discrimination against this group of people. And positive discrimination against other groups of residents in other cases has proved to have led to crimes committed that their victims were unwilling to report because they did not want to harm those in whose behalf they worked for years and years. So there will also be cases where, because of the possible approval of these marriages and subsequent adoptions, they will be harmed by children and those children will not even respond because they will be afraid of hurting their so-called parents. Positive discrimination is something that destroys Western society. It's the same as when a black basketball player in the Czech league hits two different players twice, gets a ridiculous sentence of several thousand crowns, a couple of football matches, and wonders if someone's gonna write on his Facebook that he's a black monkey, and he's unhappy that he, who used physical violence, has been the victim of a racial attack. And that's exactly where we're going with this bill. We are rushing into the fact that most of society will be terrorized today and every day in the name of some alleged but special rights of all possible minorities. And we, as most of us, in order not to be accused of racism, here not to accuse us of homophobia, here not to accuse xenophobia, here not to accuse us of russophobia, or of russophilicism on the contrary, so we will be silent and, like most, we will retreat and retreat and retreat when we retreat exactly where I started today's contribution. We get away from the fact that the dream of generations of gays and lesbians in this country, in this always very tolerant country, succeeded in fulfilling the dream of a registered partnership. The company is so tolerant that for decades, as we've convinced ourselves, there are gays and lesbians who aren't haunted, they have kids, their neighbors know about them, and nobody hurts them, they don't throw pogroms at them. This company is extremely tolerant. It has always been, it is, and until some New Novoevropan replace us, it will be tolerant. So we don't have a problem with homosexuality and its tolerance. We have a problem with homosexual activism that is being transferred to politics, and unfortunately, it is not just a social issue. That's a perfectly politicized subject. It's a perfectly politicized subject. And this is a voter game, there's no social problem. In this country, I don't remember, maybe some lawyer will fix me, I don't remember a clean murder just because someone was gay. I really don't remember the last time this happened. I remember a clean murder for racial reasons, I remember a clean murder for religious reasons, the preparation of terrorist attacks by our Muslims. I remember a lot of these things, but I don't remember him going through some major pogrom in the media on people who have other than traditional sexual orientation. This country has always been tolerant, it is, and as I say, until the New Novoevropan replace us, it will be tolerant. And he made the dream work. We managed to secure a registered partnership. We've all been celebrating, and we all really remember that it was supposed to be the last step. It was supposed to be the last step. Well, it wasn't. So now it's marriage, the next one's adoption. They'll just be. We already have a lot of couples here who just get a baby by hiring a uterus somewhere, hiding their mother's baby, or borrowing sperm somewhere, or talking to someone and hiding their father's baby, harassing their children. And we're just going to work our way through, if we don't stop it today, to the preference that if you're not gay or lesbian, then you're worth less as a parent, as is the case in many Western European countries. And I have heard from Marek Benda here, through Mr President, that he is for the EU and these things - he is not here right now. Well, the EU is exactly the kind of force that's always been pushing, pushing and pushing all these things around. So if you're for the EU, you're not only for gay marriages or young people, but you're also for adopting young people and gay couples, and you're also in favour of being preferred. Because that's what's gonna happen. The European Union is an extremely left-wing business group and there is no country in the European Union that does not move in this direction. And maybe there was some sort of disapproval, that might be. But we all know it's true. The European Union agenda is homosexual. It's not for a traditional family. So again, I warn you that those activists who had enough of a registered partnership ten years ago and now want a marriage will want more in ten years, and in another ten years they will want more. And they won't rest until they get it, because there's no other way if there's a trend set. What can we do about it? Well, we could've done two things about it. You guys collectively murdered one here as the House and rejected one, that was the referendum. In three and a half years, this House once again murdered the referendum with common forces. You may have had a registered partnership by now, according to your own surveys. It would be enough if you didn't insist on two million signatures. You could have already had a referendum on a registered partnership if you supported a law where people could make their own bills because they could have designed it themselves. You want to talk about this at parliamentary level, not because it is a social issue, but because it is a political issue. We've wasted that option. People could have made a decision. I believe that you would get 100,000 signatures within a week if you were supported by a real LGBT community, that is, hundreds of thousands of gay and lesbians who live among us and don't march around the squares in sadomaso suits and scare little children who view them as animals. Another option today is to reject this bill. And I hope that this is exactly what will happen, although I feel that many of the ANO Members' reactions are determined to put this law on second reading, although there is a very high probability that this will not be discussed by the end of the parliamentary term, because it will simply be an election move, a marketing hit. So we will see how the members of the YES, in particular, stand up to this, because the obvious thing is that it will stand on their will and it will fall. Today, we have the opportunity to put a barrier here against the homosexualist agenda - an agenda that supersedes homosexualism or homosexual behavior over normal behavior, positive discrimination against homosexuals, negative discrimination against heterosexuals - to become part of our rule of law. Let's do the right thing once in this House after a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u112	This was the last one entered into the general merged debate at the moment. I'm gonna ask you to disinfect the speaker's counter. So I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. Nobody in the hall - do I have a point of fact here, Mr. Bělobrádek? Please, Mr. Ambassador. [[Speech counter disinfection in progress.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u113	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is just that Poland, Hungary, Slovakia, is also in the European Union, just for additions. And the European Union is what the national states are. So, depending on the views in the national states, that is the European Union's view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u114	Well, thank you. So I ask you one more time if anyone's interested in a performance. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the merged debate. Is there interest in the final words of the plaintiffs? I'm done with the debate, Mr. Ambassador. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u115	Thank you. Mr President, we do not have any government here, so I do not know if we can continue to discuss this, however, before you, Mr President, can deal with it in any way, so I will take the liberty of submitting to Parliament's Press 211 - the Minister is here - to thank for the debate which, with exceptions, has been conducted in a very factual and cultured way. Unfortunately, the debate also had an educational part for all of us, as I do not think such a debate with various invectives should look like insults, which are not only worthy of this House, but of public debate at all. Unfortunately, it's a plastic image of this House. I am convinced that this debate has sometimes gone on to topics and arguments that have nothing to do with it. We didn't really have, and we didn't have a debate here about love, which in itself is an amazing value, and I have great respect for it, it is one of the fundamental values of our civilization, culture and society, but neither of those proposals, nor the amendment to the Civil Code, nor the amendment to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, is a matter of content about love itself. We talked about marriage, and I think Minister Zaorálek was very truthful when he came to the conclusion in the debate that we are actually having a debate here about whether or not certain rights of registered couples are being fulfilled. And I said, and I will repeat it again, we know that indeed some rights under the Civil Code are not really fulfilled under civil law. But then it's fair to say, let's fix this. I have repeated and will say it again, in KDU-ČSL we are ready to conduct this debate and these adjustments - fair adjustments - to support it really, but let us not make it easier on the simple way that finally proved to be the one that is required over the course of the three and a half years, that is to say, a recodification of what from our point of view is the value that deserves protection. That's why we came up with press 211, that's why we're recoding marriage. In our view, these values need to be protected from relativisation. That is why we have finally submitted this press, and we are glad that the debate is going on, and I believe that we will also lead it on the committees during those negotiations in the spirit, as I have said, and as I have also proposed to extend the deadline to request the opinions of experts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u116	Thank you. I ask the rapporteurs - one press is Mr Novák. Is he interested in the show? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u117	Very quickly I will just sum up that many Members have spoken here, we have certainly heard a substantive debate. We've heard stories of different people, for which I thank you. At least we see what's going on in our world. But what I have to say in particular is that in the framework of the 201 press, a motion was made to reject the law at first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u118	Thank you. Mrs Procházková is also interested in the performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u119	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. I would like to point out to the press 211 that a motion for rejection has been tabled and also a proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days, i.e. a total of 80 days. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-29-ps2017-100-01-001-999.u120	Thank you. We have completed the general merged debate and will continue on a single basis. So first, let's start with point one, and that's
