ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-05-ps2017-101-01-000-000.u1	Have a good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the 101st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid, as was said at the 98th meeting. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Thursday, April 29, this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Jana Krutáková and Mr Petr Dolínek. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, you agree, Mr. Ambassador. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no other proposal, I call the Members to vote. [[Gong. There's not enough kvorum. He's waiting a while.]] Well, I'm gonna go on, 'cause we still need four MPs. Well, now there's one down... Okay, one more, and three more are down. Well, that's... So we have 68 MPs, already 69. So we will be voting on the appointment of Mr Jana Krutáková and Mr Petr Dolínek to the verifier of this meeting. I didn't notice any other suggestion. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 1, 75 Members registered, for 74, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jana Krutáková and Mr Petr Dolínek, as verifiers of the 101st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 101st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 101st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 80 Members registered, for 53, versus 9. The motion was accepted. The agenda of the meeting was therefore approved. And now we're going to proceed to the first item on the show
