ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u1	283. Proposal by Members of Vít Rakušan, Jan Farský, Petr Gazdík, Věra Kovářová, Jana Krutáková and Petr Pávek on the issue of the law on one-off special parental contribution /public press 1006 - First reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. The Government's position was delivered as House Press 1006/1. I prosit that Mr Vít Rakušan present the proposal as the appellant. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u2	Hello. Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, a big thank you. I would like to thank you very much that I was able to include this press in the Chamber of Deputies for the fourth attempt, or maybe on the fifth. We proposed it for the first time in September when, according to available statistical data, we concluded that the group of singles and singles in the Czech Republic is the group to which the crazy coronavirus crisis around us is particularly cruel. If any of you have seen and had at your disposal, the latest numbers came out from STEM. STEM dealt with the issue of singles, which suggests that this crisis has somehow touched up to 80 percent of them. I would very much like us not to debate in further debates on this law, any amendments that would come, by looking at this group as potential fraudsters. There will certainly be a prolile or a percentage of people who will try to abuse state aid, that is, after all, for each individual social benefit. But first of all, let us consider the reason why this aid has a basis for doing so. From our point of view and from the data I'm about to give you, yes. People who are left alone for a child, whether due to divorce or widows, have enormous problems in these segments. Managing distance teaching your children - combining child care, taking care of the child, not having a second partner, and at the same time trying to make a living for your family is often extremely difficult. As far as work is concerned, 11 percent of the singles, which is a large number, have already lost their jobs during the spring wave of the pandemic. Half of the parents' income decreased by 3 to 5,000 crowns, another 20 percent of the single parents lost 5 to 10,000 crowns a month, which in many of them is the question of the real limit of poverty, falling into it, falling into debt, falling into an execution trap in the future. High cost of living and not paying maintenance is another problem that has touched the singles. According to the statistics based on the surveys that I mentioned, 13 percent of former partners currently stopped paying alimony and maintenance. Of course, it's legit, of course it's a felony, but it's not easy for singles and singles to get to the money. We have also seen a huge increase in this population group in the interest of food from the food bank. I would also like to thank all the Members who support food banks, this year more than ever. And let's not forget them even in April, when another collection for food banks should be planned, it probably won't, so at least let's solve it individually and help the food banks as much as we can. Another real problem that is mentioned in the research into the problem of singles is that singles and singles children really had to limit their activities over the summer, they had to limit various sports activities, they do not have enough nutritionally valuable food. 40 percent of the singles surveyed agreed that they do not buy their children in some higher quality and larger range of fruits and vegetables, which, of course, is also a potential problem for preventing the disease of these children, young people in the future. As many as 60 percent of single parents were objectively unable to prepare themselves financially for the second wave of pandemics, and they are simply free of their own guilt in the second and upcoming third wave of pandemics. They've just spent all their life savings on the previous waves, and the situation is really trivial. The good news is that many of them have tried to make a profit - to be objective, up to 14 percent of the singles who have lost their jobs over time have managed to find at least some work that they can do alongside all the difficult tasks that their life's destiny brings with them. The overall result is that about 20 percent of single and single people could have reached the very poverty line, which potentially means a burden on the social system, even in the future, even in the post-covid era. Of course, this potentially means the aforementioned execution traps, the debts, the very disadvantageous ones from which they simply will not be able to get out, they will not be able to repay them. I won't keep you long to describe the situation, because most of you know it. And I keep one promise that I made to you. I really consider my proposal to be a carrier, not a definitive proposal, and therefore I agree with the President of the club of the ANO movement, but also in agreement with the other club presidents that I certainly do not insist on discussing the 90th. It will fall here in a moment of a procedurally correct veto, and it is okay if the Ministry does not agree with this proposal, let us go together in second reading - and I ask you to do so, if we are not discussing in the 90's - how to improve the law, how to help singles. I guarantee you - and I don't say this often, because I am a politician, and I certainly play political games often - but this isn't about authorship. I'm really looking for the help of a group of people here, however much we can come up with on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that Mrs Kovářová, after a negative opinion on our proposal from the MPSV, has already begun to work on an amendment that is just before the completion, and even, which is the positive of the amendment, worked on it together with the senators, namely Senator Marek Hilšer, and there is a chance that the proposal that we will try to defend at that second reading might also have a chance to support the upper chamber. I would like to thank you once again for your support, once again I would like to ask you that after those procedures, when we are no longer in the '90s, you are not opposed to this press moving forward to the second reading. And I promise you a very open communication about this proposal. Let's help these people and let's go to an unfortunate group of residents who don't have that life easy under normal circumstances, help them deal with it as it would be in a civilized country, that is, with the help of a state that knows who is suffering and when. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u3	I also thank you, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Speaker, Madam Secretary, allow me to present the proposal from the position of rapporteur. The Group of Members submitted this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies on 8. 9. 2020. The proposer proposes, as has already been mentioned, a discussion so that consent can be given to the proposal at first reading, that is, according to § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll. The Organizing Committee proposed that the Guarantee Committee be a Committee on Social Policy and designated me as rapporteur. The Government sent its opinion on 14. 10. 2020, you received it as House Press 1006/1. In this opinion, the Government disagreed with this bill. The appellant spoke about the need for the proposal. I'll take a personal position there. Yes, singles and singles are basically the most endangered group that has been hit by the current crisis situation. But I have to stick to my role as rapporteur, so first of all let me briefly summarize what this proposal is about, then explain why the government has given a negative opinion, in particular on having the bill discussed and approved at first reading. Then I will say what would be necessary to adjust if we continue to discuss this proposal. So what exactly is this proposal about? It sets a one-time emergency parental allowance of CZK 6 000. Lone parents and parents receiving parental allowance are entitled to this allowance. The applicable period for the assessment of that entitlement shall be set from March to December 2020. The application may be submitted by the end of March 2021 at the latest to the Labour Office and the fulfilment of the entitlement shall be demonstrated by an honest declaration. However, it is not possible to approve this proposal at first reading because the application would be possible by the end of March at the latest, but only the creation of an application and IT adjustments will take several weeks and it would not be manageable. Another significant reservation is that the target group and the conditions of entitlement are defined from the perspective of the administration of the proposal very problematicly and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a number of legislative technical comments on this proposal. In order for the proposal to work and to meet what we would all like to do, it would be necessary, firstly, to extend the deadline of application significantly, to further adjust the relevant period for entitlement to this parental contribution, better and more precisely to formulate the target groups. In this way, as proposed, more than one person will be entitled to care for one child, for example, in alternating care, both parents could claim the benefit. It is necessary to adjust the entitlement to support families with young children - if it is intended to support families with young children, it is better to bind them to the age of the child, for example, because if we were to discuss it again, as it is formulated, it could happen that families with the same old children would be discriminated against somewhere, but which quickly exhausted the original parental contribution. Moreover, according to the government's statement and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is not a handy link to the parental contribution, because the situation of these families can be more stable than where both parents work, but they may have lost their jobs at that point. These are the reasons why we should not - and I do not recommend this as rapporteur - approve the procedure of § 90, but also consider further discussions. In addition, it may be noted that, in essence, there is already a government proposal relating to parental contribution, and according to which, when we discuss the whole of it, the addition to the child represents a stable increase in the family budget on a monthly basis better than the one-off contribution proposed by the present proposal. So much for the presentation of the proposal and my position as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. President Faltýnek with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On behalf of two parliamentary clubs, YES and KSČM, I would object to the discussion of this press pursuant to § 90 para. 2 or veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u7	Well, that's what I wanted to hear. So here we have the veto and we will continue according to § 90 para. 7. The Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will act with priority, and Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long advocated systemic changes in support of families with children or single parents. Support for working families and parents properly raising their children is one of the main agenda priorities of the SPD movement, especially with regard to the single parents concerned by this particular bill. At present, it is clearly one of the social and economic most vulnerable groups of the population, which deserves special attention and assistance from public authorities. That is why, in the recent past, our Mrs Lucie Šafránková has tabled several legislative proposals in the SPD, which would help this group of our fellow citizens, whether it was the area of tax discounts and advantages or the issue of the infirmary. We will therefore, of course, also vote in favour of this one-off special parental contribution. For decent and working parents, we promote a really massive and motivational birth rate, preferably in the tens of thousands, even for a third child, because the key to prosperity is to promote birth rates in society for hardworking and blameless citizens. We promote lower or zero taxation of low-income but working families and, of course, continuously promote and support the highest possible additions to children of decent parents with a working history. We also propose to shorten the period between the period of decline in parental income below the relevant financial limit and the existence of entitlement to child allowance and its actual payment from the current minimum of three months to one month. [[18.20 hours]] On the contrary, as you know, there is a law in the House from the SPD pen that terminates the abuse of social benefits by so-called inadaptables. But back to those decent, working parents. With the support of working families with children, which is one of the central themes of the SPD programme, of course, we support increasing the threshold for entitlement to child allowance to the monthly income level of 3.4 times the minimum of the family's life, mainly because parents working on full-time employment or the parents of businessmen with monthly income above CZK 15,000, which is, according to official government data, roughly the monthly ceiling for entitlement to this state social support. On 28 January there was a proposal on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies to increase the addition to children, and there was at least a possibility of helping parents with children. We're talking about working families with children, that's important to us. The ODS, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, but they vetoed the discussion of the proposal in an accelerated procedure. We have a one-time contribution today. As always, we are discussing the patch of the years of an unsolved problem, which is the lack of long-term support for parents with young children. It's the same model as a one-time allowance to seniors. Yes, the SPD has always supported this one-time allowance to the elderly, because something is better than nothing. But, of course, we have been here for almost two years now a bill from the SPD pen to establish a minimum basic decent pension at the border of poverty, which is less than CZK 15,000 pure, for every pensioner who has worked for years, and from this amount of credit. Because I really don't understand why the government doesn't realize that for those pensions, for 10,000, and for less than 10,000 - see what disability pensions are - it's just impossible to live on. And that needs to be said, we at the SPD realize it, the government doesn't realize it. So, ladies and gentlemen, the SPD will, of course, support the contribution, but the government should, if necessary, prepare and accept really systemic changes after the debate with the opposition, so that decent people who allow themselves to have a child are not so visibly disadvantaged than those who do not have children. Investing in children from decent families is the best thing for the state to do. On average, the state will take 50 percent of our income, so at times when the state needs every crown, there are children from families where there is the potential to raise them to work, a real gold mine. So let us take care of such children and families as if they were our treasure, because they really are, and let us support every family capable of raising a hardworking and decent person. We're not doing this for them, we're doing it for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u9	Thank you, too. The next will act with the priority right of Mrs Věra Kovářová, and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you and I to support this proposal. As you know, the pandemic has been going on for a year, and for many of us it is unimaginable that it can happen that it will take many more months. Many of our citizens are on the brink of strength, not only mentally but also physically, but also financially. It is a very difficult situation for lonely parents, who have often been in debt to survive with children in the spring, and now they have nothing left to take from them. Some even fear for a roof over their heads. Spring surveys last year have already pointed out that the coronavirus pandemic is a disaster for these endangered groups. Even under normal circumstances, these people barely kept their heads above water, and it is for single mothers, for single dads, that situation is very difficult and indeed a group of very vulnerable income poverty. Their earnings are often below CZK 20,000 a month, it happens quite often that their partners, i.e. former partners, do not pay child support. They also find work badly enough, and that is a proper job, due to lack of flexible jobs or employers' prejudices. On the other hand, it must be noted that it is gratifying that during last year a wave of solidarity with single parents has risen several times, and especially before Christmas, a number of initiatives have succeeded in asking for public support and people have helped in collections of funds and material aid, whether they were just people in the community, when they organized a collection for singles and singles, or whether they were known nonprofit organizations, or let us name, for example, journalist Nora Fridrichová, who was able to collect millions of money for food purchases, also on children's laptops and so on. However, I must also say that, by continuing this crisis, it must be feared that the willingness to help will probably fall with the ongoing pandemic. The situation in many single - parent families has been hitting the bottom just this year. Part of the singles and singles had to be in debt during the first wave of pandemics, many had problems paying rent or food. In June last year, it would be difficult for anyone to think that it could be even worse, and it is clear that the second and third wave of pandemics will certainly be much more demanding for these groups. I would like to quote Mrs Dana Pavlousková, the director of the Single Mothers Club, who helps single parents in need, saying: "We see an increasing amount of requests for help that we walk, but also on rhetoric that is often a sign of despair. The covid situation is simply not something to be prepared for, even if it has already been experienced. You face the same problems, but in a worse financial situation, and let's face it, with declining mental powers. I think we all need some light at the end of the tunnel, some kind of time perspective, when things will start to work normal again, and we'll have a chance to get our lives back on track." So much for Mrs. Dana Pavlousková. While last spring, the happier singles could reach into modest savings, or, thanks to a wave of social solidarity, negotiate payment schedules with the owners of apartments, today the situation is different, reserves are exhausted. It should also be noted that roughly half of the single parents decreased their income by 3 to 5,000 CZK during the coronavirus crisis, five to 5 to 10,000 CZK, in terms of taking less than CZK 20,000, such a blackout is really liquidation and a number of single parents lost their jobs. Of course, it must also be said that single farmers often do not have financial reserves, they often work on agreements in sectors that have been most affected by measures against covid, such as services and tourism, and are therefore also most at risk of losing their jobs. [[18.30 hours]] Let me also say that it is not surprising that, according to statistics, 60 percent of single parents did not have a chance to prepare financially for further pandemic waves and not to mention debt repayment. These are all the arguments that led us to put forward this bill. And let me also remind you that during the discussion of the so-called veiled, we tabled an amendment which, although not adopted here in the House, together with Senator Hilšer, we then prepared an amendment to the Senate, which responded to all the comments of the ministries, when we really only identified a group of singles, we removed a group of parents with children, and other technical and legislative matters are prepared for us to submit such an amendment at second reading. That is why I am asking you to be released right before reading the second one so that this amendment can be read. At the same time, I propose that we reduce the time limits for committee discussions to 30 days. I firmly believe that this will succeed, and thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u11	Thank you. The next will be presented by Mrs Kateřina Valachová with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u12	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to speak on behalf of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club and say a few words on the bill tabled. We will support the passage of this law to second reading, because singles and singles do not have it easy, let's say, in normal times - to reconcile work, family, limited funds, and all the more so - the difficult handling of the situation and these challenges - for the time of covido. We thank you for what has been put forward here as grounds for submitting this bill to the previous speakers and previous speakers. I would like to remind you that, in recent months and years, this House has adopted a number of things on our proposals that should have improved the status of singles and singles, and I am convinced that they have improved: whether it is an increase in parental allowance, parental allowance, almost one third a year ago, whether it is a substitute maintenance which will therefore become valid and effective, that is to say, an improvement in the situation of singles and singles, which is very difficult to bear in the very situation that arises in their families and child care in the event of non-payment of maintenance from 1. 7. Let this be a shared job since January. And you also know, colleagues, that we are working together in committees to increase the addition to children and increase the number of families with children who will be able to obtain this encore, when it is very often again about singles and singles. The government is currently acting, and according to my information, the government has been dealing with a proposal to raise the infirmary for parents of children for several days. So far, these considerations are going in a similar direction to what we approved in the spring. I believe that increasing the infirmary for parents in this time of the covido and in the situation of the great restrictions that our country now has, the three-week lockdown and the closure of schools, including maternity schools, is an extraordinary situation, so that we will also respond to this measure to support families with children, when again to the worst, the most difficult situations are logically brought by singles and singles. Thank you again for opening this topic. I think that this is the kind of thing that we should be dealing with at this time, and we, as Social Democrats, are ready to look for a consensus on the extraordinary support of singles and singles within the committee. Thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u13	Thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will speak in the general debate. I'm going to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber, and I'm giving the lady my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u14	Thank you. I waited, although I could also use my priority rights. However, many previous speakers before me have said what I have prepared. I will not be here to speak and communicate as a Member of the ANO movement, but as a Member of the Government Coalition. I think that young families are important to all of us, and I repeat again that as a government coalition, we have all increased our parental contribution here in the House by CZK 80,000 from 220 000 to 300,000. Many parents - I know that this proposal was made in October, I think, Mr. Speaker - many parents are pumping or drawing on one of the anti-crisis programs: infirmary, compensation bonuses, anti-viruses. [[He agrees.]] And this intention - I am also glad that it has opened up, but I have read why the government has taken a negative position. You have already said that you have responded to this by changing what you want to put forward with the amendment. I would've done it again very quickly. The Government has taken a negative position on this, in particular because this law is unapplicable, terminologically inaccurate and contradictory. Is it not clear who is the rightful person - the single parent caring for the child, and the parent receiving the parental allowance, or the single parent receiving the parental allowance at the same time? It is not clear whether the contribution concerns preschool parents or dependent children up to 26 years of age. The proposal does not yet take into account the real financial situation in the family or the number of children. There are calculated costs of 3 billion, but this may also be quite questionable. I would like to say that we certainly do not underestimate the difficulties of families with children. Children are home for a long time, learning distance, and many parents work from home, which certainly changed the course and course of many families. And, as Mrs Valachová said for ČSSD, as she pointed out, I say for our government: the government has increased the infirmary to 70 percent. Infirmary, we must stress that it does not count as a decisive income when assessing entitlement to social benefits. The encore for children reaches a higher circle, which means a higher circle of families. There is also an increase in child allowance and compensation bonuses. Yesterday we approved increased income of people in quarantine and isolation, which can also guarantee financial stability to families with children. Backup maintenance started to pay us, as my colleague said. So here I just wanted to say that our House has really taken a lot of positive steps to help families with children, and I am also in favour of discussing this law in the ordinary course of action. But if I can afford it, as chairman of the Social Policy Committee, I do not agree with shortening the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u15	Thank you. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u16	In a calm voice, colleagues and colleagues, I was the first vice-chairman of the club here to present the opinion of the MP club, otherwise it is impossible if it is the position of the MP club. And other than that, if I was speaking "we," I didn't specify it. Of course, "we" in terms of government proposals means social democracy and the ANO movement. So many facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u17	Thank you. I see no one else entered into the general debate, neither electronically nor from where I am, and I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. Isn't that right, rapporteur? Is he interested in the final word? Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u18	So thank you for your word. There was one concrete proposal in the general debate, and this was the proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-009-283.u19	Yes, we will vote on it at the very conclusion. I'm gonna go on and invite the MP to the Chamber of Deputies. Since the veto was raised in the short-term procedure, we will be discussing in accordance with § 90 para. 7. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your identification cards. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see anyone. I've started the vote. I ask, who is for the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a committee of guarantee? Who's against it? Voting order number 73, 83 Members signed in for 81, there was no one against it. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? I don't see anyone. So we're still going to deal with the last vote, and that's a reduction in the committee's deadline for 30 days. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 74, 79 Members registered, for 36, against 18. The motion was not accepted. I thank you and end the first reading of this press. On the basis of the agreement of the chairman of the political clubs, I am terminating today's meeting day. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. with the answers to the written interpelations. Have a good evening.
