ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u1	35. Government bill amending Act No. 266/1994 Coll., on Railways, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /German press 912/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft law was originally to be mentioned by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, but the Prime Minister was commissioned by the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch. Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will therefore introduce this second draft law amending the Act on Railways and Administrative Fees for my colleague and the Ministry of Transport. The main objective of the draft law is to transpose Directive 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union and Directive EU 2016/798 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on railway safety. Both Union regulations form part of the technical pillar of the fourth railway package and are accompanied by a number of implementing acts, of which the vast majority are binding and directly applicable. These provisions are also taken into account by the draft law. The proposed transposition legislation will only apply to the national, regional and rail vehicles operating on these runways based on the use of the possibility of exemption from the scope of the two Directives. The draft law includes extensive and conceptual changes to existing legislation, for which the railway sector is impatiently waiting. The addresses of this legislation are a number of different bodies, from railway operators and carriers to railway vehicle holders, railway vehicle maintenance bodies, contracting entities and manufacturers of interoperability constituents and subsystems forming the runway or railway vehicle to so-called notified and designated entities. The draft law also significantly regulates the competence of the railway office and also provides for the transfer of selected competences to the Union institutions. In view of the specified transposition period of the two Directives and the expected entry into force of a number of related regulations, the adoption of an appropriate implementation adjustment should be considered key in the foreseeable future. The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic recommended that the draft law be discussed and approved as amended by eight proposed amendments. It is, on the one hand, three amendments made by Mr Kolovratník concerning the clarification of the definition of the holder of a railway vehicle. The Ministry of Transport has taken a favourable position on him. (b) the exemption of uniform approved railway vehicles with the need to have a type-certificate issued and a certificate for operation on a local or train track, the Ministry of Transport has taken a neutral view of it. As well as the new Institute of Railway Conservation, the Ministry of Transport took a favourable position on it. [[16.00 hours]] Furthermore, it is the three amendments made by Mr Ferance, all linked to the consent of the Ministry of Transport concerning (a) the amendment of the proposed legislation on historic railway vehicles, (b) the specification of the conditions of professional competence for the operation of railway transport; and (c) the clarification of the obligation of the railway operator to allow the test operation of the railway vehicle. The Economic Committee also recommended the adoption of two identical amendments by Members of Polanský and Jurečka concerning the review of decisions issued by the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure under the Administrative Code of Procedure, on which the Ministry of Transport adopted a favourable opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u3	Now I'll read the apology. Mr Pavel Žáček apologizes from 16.30 today to the end of the day for work reasons. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 912/1 and 2. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, originally Jan Bauer, but there has been an agreement, we do not need to vote on this, it will be Mr Martin Kolovratník, and he has informed us about the discussion of the proposal in the committee and he has justified any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u4	Thank you for the floor, now as rapporteur. First of all, my colleagues, I want to thank you so much for putting the press in line. Today is the last window to be really able to discuss it in the third reading in July, or at some back door, the Senate proposals to return to it in September. The situation is really critical, with all seriousness critical, because this law is one of two parts - such large parts - of the package. The first was the so-called market pillar of the railway environment, which we discussed here during this parliamentary term, resolved and adopted in 2019. You may remember, there were problems of private carriers, relations between the carriers, rent by trains, tracks, facilities, services and so on, and we accepted it. And here's the other part, the other part is called the technical pillar. He implements absolutely fundamental things into himself, such as the approval of railway vehicles for operation by the railway office. The government delivered it here before 24 June and the deadline for implementation for us to do this and implement it expired on 31 October 2020, so we are half a year after the time it was to be adopted, and really if it did not happen in this parliamentary term, there would be a serious problem for the railroad, for the resort as well as on safety issues, approval of new vehicles, international relations, commitments and so on. So thanks for that, that's ad 1. Ad 2, to the Economic Committee, for discussion. On 5 February 2021, the minister spoke of it on behalf of the Minister. It issued the abovementioned amendments 912/2. There were probably two topics that resonated most during the discussion on the Economic Committee. The first was the so-called overloaded runway - the moment when capacity allocation, Railway Administration, no longer has capacity for applicants. Typically it happens on the first, main corridor from Prague to Pardubice, Česká Třebová and Moravia. I have prepared a rather radical proposal for the Economic Committee, which favored passenger transport at certain moments at the expense of the freight. It's caused a pretty big shock in the sector. We agreed not to accept it at the time, and it was not accepted on the Economic Committee, and I want to tell you that I have managed to find a perfect compromise sensible solution, with which all players on the railway market agree, both personal and private, as well as national carriers, as well as the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure. It is an institute of so-called specialised infrastructure and I will present it not in this word, but only in the general debate as an author. The second major topic of the Economic Committee was the so-called conservation of the runway, which is currently adopted by the Committee. As rapporteur, I will not speak to her any more, because I have personally prepared a proposal which is already under discussion and is much more moderate. I will introduce him to the debate and I know that colleagues, Mr Polanský, also have something to say on this issue and will certainly say. So, like I said, it's 12 in a second, thank you for this second reading. We will be discussing our proposals in the debate shortly. I assume that the Economic Committee will do this next week on Wednesday so that we can manage the third reading, the final approval of the law, at the July meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Polanský is the first Member to join. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and for starters, I might say to Martin Kolovratník that you are welcome. It is up to him to thank all the Members who have included it today. I confess that I recommended to the club that we include it for today, I voted in favour myself, but I did not know that the Minister would not be here because I have a series of very important questions for the Minister, which the Minister of Health cannot answer with all due respect. That is why I am making a procedural motion to interrupt this item for the Minister's discussion. [[present?]] It's really very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u7	Thank you. Next in line is Mr Kolovratník, who is enrolled in the debate. [[Mr Polanský warns that he has filed a procedural motion.]] Oh, sorry. Can you do that again on the microphone, until when?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u8	Yes. I am putting a procedural motion to interrupt this item in the presence of the Minister of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u9	I'm gonna call my co-workers from the lobby. I'm gonna check you all out. We're gonna have to wait for the O.R. to fill up. [[After a while.]] We still don't have a kvorum. [[It is waiting for Members to arrive.]] Now, the House is a quorum. I'll repeat the motion. There was a proposal that the meeting be suspended in the presence of the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 438, logged in 87, for 33, versus 36. The motion was denied. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u10	Thank you. Again, I feel a little cheated. Knowing that the minister won't be here today, I don't vote in the morning to put this point on today, and no one from our club. Well, then, I'll keep going. Just please remember the absurdity of the situation. I'm gonna be asking questions here to a minister who just can't answer them. Thank you, Minister, for your attention. But I'm going to ask those questions informally, as I really am. The Railway Act has been open here for a long time. It is an amendment to the law motivated by the European directive, as the rapporteur for second reading has already said, to liberalise the railroad with the so-called fourth railway package. I am very sorry that the whole debate around this amendment has reduced de facto to one thing, and that is the preservation of local lines. When we discussed this amendment on the Economic Committee, and it was February 5th, I warned about the preservation vote. I drew attention to the pitfalls of this proposal, especially the condition of parallel operation of 1,500 passenger and 12 freight trains, that this condition would mean the possibility to preserve about a third of the Czech railway network, including very exposed but segregated sections. Unfortunately, I failed to persuade the economic committee and this amendment became part of the economic committee's amendment. Immediately after the vote, we started working on the correction of this condition within our departmental team, and we also came up with proposals to correct further shortcomings of this adjustment. [[16.10 hours]] I am still convinced that the best repair would consist of this proposal for preservation from the novel simply release it and write it all over again. This is such a fundamental proposal that it is not admissible to submit it by a Member's proposal. Such material must come from the Ministry, it must pass through the inter-ministerial area, there must be a RIA on it, and the Legislative Council of the Government has to comment on it. There goes my amendment under the number of House document 7711. My first question to the Minister is, why didn't the Ministry of Transport make a proposal for the preservation of locals, Mr. Health Minister? Why? Why didn't the Ministry of Transport submit a proposal to preserve the locals themselves? Since the last amendment of 2019, my colleague Kolovratník has submitted a proposal to me for the first time, and when the Ministry supported it, everyone in the Ministry knew that he would submit it again in this amendment because he had committed himself to it. At this time you had enough time to adopt the proposal, work it out, discuss it and submit it as part of the original print 912. Why didn't you? Why do you just sort of sweep the path instead of the proposal, but you don't want to stand up for it? The result of this activity is something that I personally have reason to stand on. The Member will make a mistake in the amendment, exchange the link "or" for "a" and instead of admitting and correcting the error in the Ministry, so they defend it and defend it in the media. This happened on 14 February, when a large article of questions and answers to the preservation of the railway came out of the portal. It was a set of questions where the editor sent to the Ministry of Transport, where answers were prepared. I'm gonna read you one of those questions and ask the Minister of Health for an explanation. Editorial question: In the proposal there is a link in the paragrafo part of the law and, for the minimum number of ordered trains simultaneously in the reason message, but for the same one, the clutch or. Will it therefore be necessary to meet the numbers for both modes of transport or only for one? That's the question of the editor. The Ministry's answer: Unfortunately, we have met several times with a reference to the alleged error. According to the Ministry of Transport, however, the proposal is written in accordance with the rules of Czech language and operative logic. The runway may be preserved if the conditions for a sufficient number of passenger and freight trains are not met. In the opposite way, the design can be read so that preservation cannot be allowed if more passenger trains ride on the track than 1,500 per year or more trains than 12 per year. Only one of these conditions is sufficient here, i.e. a higher number of freight or passenger trains so that the runway cannot be preserved. Mr. Secretary, this statement by the Ministry is not true. It's just not true! It sounds exactly the opposite of what reality is. Please remember what happened here. To support the amendment with which you sympathize, but are afraid to face it, you are releasing to the media the official way of misinterpreting the prepared paragrafo text of the law. Once again, you read the whole question and the answer, you'll find that it's not a text that would accidentally write to the press department. This text was written on your behalf by someone high up at the Ministry of Transport. And I would like to ask you for answers to the questions: Do you still stand up for this text, because officially from the Ministry on this topic no information has come up other than this since the publication of the text, that is, since February? How did the text come about and if you knew about it? And if you take any responsibility from this incident? Because in my opinion, this goes beyond all possible limits. The reason for this is that responsibility is appropriate. Personally, I can't imagine any greater offense that a top executive body in the country could have committed than official channels pulling both professional and lay public, including us legislators, by the nose, for the sake of defending such a huge legislative kics. As you can see, colleagues, not only the proposal itself, but also its other fates raise further questions and specifically ask themselves to stop and rethink the whole initiative and do it properly, with the interministerial process and so on. I therefore ask once again to support the amendment under number 7711. If the proposal to cut the conversation at third reading was not accepted, the pirát have prepared several other amendments, which I can now imagine. In the Houses of Document 7720, there is a proposal governing this, according to the Ministry, a non-existent mistake with connections. In addition, the proposal reduces the unrealistically high threshold for the extent of passenger transport, which could only be met in the case of day-to-day operation throughout the year, or significantly intensive operation in summer operation. The newly proposed value of 300 passenger trains corresponds to the situation where the operation of three pairs of trains during the weekend days of April to September, or a slightly more intensive operation during the season. In Houses of Document 7714, there is a simple proposal to postpone the effectiveness of preservation. The reason for this is a huge decline in passenger transport due to pandemics in 2020 and probably 2021, which would be precisely those years that would serve as reference given the condition of operation of 1,500 passenger trains. In the Houses of Document 7719, I believe that the most important proposal for correction is found. It changes the importance of preservation in the sense that it will not be able to actively dismantle the railway superstructure and de facto cancel the track. This proposal allows the runway to be converted into a condition where the runway can not be maintained, thereby fulfilling the sense of the entire conservation design, but at the same time the operator must keep it running even if regular operation is not allowed on it. We are inspired by this from abroad, especially from the US, where traffic takes place on the track of unmaintained decades, and where it turns out that with certain conditions, such as low speed, the train can also go through something that can already be called rails only with an increased dose of imagination. I suggest this with a firm awareness that once the runway is brought down and the traffic on it will not return, because if the economy does not come out today, it will be difficult to come out in the future, when the track will have to be de facto rebuilt according to current technical standards. The last amendment under the number of House document 7721 concerns the rules of deconservation. In the original proposal, its treatment is not sufficient. The proposed paragraph 10b) is inconvenient because it allows for deconservation only at the request of the railway operator, railway management. Completely lacking consideration of the will of the carrier or the customer, that is the region and the municipality. Without anchoring these possibilities in the law, the return of transport to a previously preserved runway is possible rather in the plane theoretical. Mechanisms are also proposed by the carrier, so the customer expresses interest to re-use the runway and the procedure by which the decision on the conservation of the runway can be cancelled on the basis of renewed interest. That's all for me for now. Recapitulate questions to the Minister: firstly, why didn't the proposal to preserve the railway directly from the Ministry, when it supported it, the two years involved in his work actively, cooperates and sweeps his way? Secondly, do you continue to support the claim that "a" means "or"? And thirdly, how did the text that approved it come from being sent to the press? And four: what will be the consequences of this incident? Thank you, Minister, for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u11	Mr Kolovratník, with priority and no priority, is entered into the debate. You can choose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u12	Ondr Polanský: the Minister is already here, so he will suck up the atmosphere and respond, but I will now not be in the debate as a priority right, as rapporteur, Ondro Polanský, through the President. First, about the technical procedure itself, why it was not submitted by the Ministry, but I personally: but we were so much more or less frameworkally agreed in 2019 that for me it was a topic, I want to focus on it, I want to deal with it, we want to protect the runways, and then, when I no longer have priority rights, I will explain it in detail. I said I wanted to do this, and the Ministry said at the time: Yes, we will prepare it for you, my colleague, and it will be prepared for the so-called technical pillar. So I don't see any major contradiction in this or the problem of why it wasn't in the government bill, but in the way of the MP's proposal. And what I publicly acknowledge - and I have said this in the winter months - I personally see as a mistake, and for this we publicly apologized that we were not in advance in a larger debate primarily with regional representatives, with the Transport Commission of the Association of Regions, but also with railway trade unionists. [[16.20 hours]] It's kind of a donkey bridge now in the context of the answer. The space for this was, we discussed it, we met several times, and the result is a proposal which colleagues - at least according to the reports I have, now was the last meeting of the Transport Commission of the Association of Regions on Friday in Liberec - I don't want to say that enthusiastically, I will probably say that carefully, but they agree, they are understood by the final form, as we modified it. After all, that is what the legislative process in the House is for. But I'm sure I have to defend the ministry here in the role of rapporteur that it's not a step aside or some sort of road sweep. Clutch - once again we explained it several times, I am happy to explain it again. The letter "a" applies. Logically, both conditions, both passenger transport and freight transport, must be fulfilled. Only then can we consider preservation. If there's a word "or" in there, it'll be enough to fulfill the condition of one. An illustration example, such extreme. Under normal conditions, when there are no lockouts in the Libní Tunnels, tunnels under Vítkov between Libní and Main Station, there is not a single freight train a day, so if there were "personal or freight" that they didn't drive, we would be preserving tunnels. I guess we can agree that's nonsense. That's why it's true, and from the beginning in the text, not in the explanatory note, it was in the text, and it was consistent with the "a" clutch. Thought - can be preserved if there are insufficient passenger trains and if you want, also a small number of freight trains, that means both types of transport. Probably the only thing that Ondr Polanský can be right about is that it was not misinterpreted in the original proposal, but only in the explanatory report. There I may say that I was the author, that I should have noticed this better and read the reason message that I had overlooked this, so I am sure that there is an apology for that, but the key is always the proposal paragrafo. So much reaction to Ondra Polanský. Now that I have the floor, I'm going to use it quickly to recapitulate what was so medialized and unfortunately on the said transport server very falsely to tabloidly described conservation, very disgustingly tabloidly described, what was going on around it. Again, here's the proposal - I was surprised at how negative the reactions were - the proposal doesn't want to record the Railway Administration in order to deliberately disturb, rip out the tracks, destroy the locals or destroy the Czech railroad. On the contrary, he wants to protect her. There are a number of lines in the territory of our Republic, which are simply no longer interested, is minimal. Today, the law pre-emptes procedures - and I really see this as a member of the Board of Railway Administration today and daily - the law accurately pre-emptes the procedures when we call on customers of transport, municipalities, primarily the regions, we deal with private carriers, if they are not interested, then the track is offered for sale in several rounds, is also offered to transfer property towards potential candidates, such as the municipality, and only when everything fails, so what does the law say today? He says we should still take care of her, even if no one goes there. Zero! If no one goes there, we'll put millions there. For that I am glad, Ondra Polanský wrote somewhere in the justification of his amendment that he understood the original intention, so I feel that in thought here we are at least in agreement on this. The proposal says that if all the options really fail, there will be an opportunity to proceed here to the so-called conservation, which means, not that we're gonna tear down the track, sell out, as they say, we're gonna break the limits and sell out the land, because then the line construction is gonna die. This is how you preserve, preserve the line construction for the future, for the future generation, for anyone in the future, and relatively simply on the body of that railroad, the line construction, which is further owned by the state, you can return the rail traffic, say, in the width of one construction season. It really can happen. As an illustration, I can set an example from my region: the line from Chrudim to Heřmanův Městec. There's traffic. We talked to the municipalities, they are not interested in it, they are still relatively clumsy cross the first-class road. Nor do the State's material reserves have any interest. We could imagine, after discussing with the mayor, that perhaps right here would be a much better cycle path, which will lead cyclists, families, mothers with children, athletes, from the first-class road and use the very body of the track, which will be preserved. And who do we know, friends, in 10, 15, 20 years, what happens? Minister Havlíček brings new gigafactory, brings somewhere to the region, suddenly there will be demand for freight rail transport, chop, we can immediately return the body of the runway, because here comes the economic interest in the region. Elsewhere, another city or village will grow, new housing houses will be created, more population, demand for a new transport model will arise. We don't even know what the traffic models will be - hybrid vehicles, light trains, etc. And once again, we find that we can use the preserved, preserved body of the track. So that's to justify the proposal and its content - the last sentence, I won't hold up any longer. In agreement with our colleagues from the regions, we have modified this into a form which, I think, is very, very mild. We say the condition is five times reduced, my friends, to only 300 passenger trains per year, imagine this is one everyday. This comes primarily to those hiking tracks where it is only necessary to operate during the summer or part of the season, and - I underline this letter - at the same time 12 freight trains, i.e. one month, if used there. If only - I repeat - both conditions were not fulfilled, preservation can be considered. The second insurance - it will be dealt with by the so-called administrative procedure, the administrative process, where the regions and municipalities will be the participants, whose cadastral path runs. And the last thing about the preservation: here we gave, I have a mandate to say it, to reveal, we made a public promise with Deputy Sechter just to the Transport Commission of the Regional Association that we will work together on the methodology of how the preservation would look, how it would take place in the future, how the economic evaluation of the return of the line would look, if it really pays off and it makes sense that we would not invest tens of millions somewhere to order several units of trains. The promise is in the sense that in the creation of methodology, representatives of both the regions and the Union of cities and municipalities will actually form it together to agree with it. So this is the agreement that we have come up with, and also thanks to which I will argue and beg you to support this amendment. I'm going to quickly say to my next one, I'm going to skip the ones not so crucial, but what's still been discussed in the media is the overloaded corridor. Here's a big thank-you to Minister Havlíček that after the economic committee in February, we made a promise to prepare it within a month, to solve it, and we did it. We have Amendment 7739, called specialised infrastructure. Authorly, mentally, it is based on the inspiration of the Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure and European Legislation. Very simply, it gives the opportunity to allocate capacities in certain - overloaded - time slots, to declare the runway specialized only for one mode of transport, for example for the passenger and not the freight, but there is a condition that there must always be a certain detour, the possibility to use a replacement route, and also that it must be discussed with the carriers. I'm aware that there's a lot of consensus in the railway segment and on this proposal, and it has a lot of support. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u13	Thank you. A factual point has been deleted, so Mr Čižinský for the debate. Mrs Balcarová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u14	Thank you. Unfortunately, in recent months, we have witnessed rather ruthless cutting along railway lines, so my amendment, which is press 8650, releases the very passages that are responsible for the felling, so I would like to propose that they be released and that it will return to the situation as it was before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Balcarová, Mrs Kovářová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Čižinský. I am also making an amendment which aims to return the railway law on cutting trees around the lines into the original form, because the protection of trees in the landscape really should have an important role to play, because this is about ecosystem services. We all know how important trees are. Even raid trees that are around the tracks have a distinctive function in terms of reducing warming in the landscape as far as biodiversity quality is concerned, trees in the landscape simply have a function that cannot be replaced. [[16.30 hours]] Even before that, if some trees were in such a state that they threatened rail transport, they could immediately be cut down without any administrative process. If it was to be cut down in some wide corridor around the lines, it was only announced to the environmental authorities, which had the opportunity to comment on it. This option was cancelled in the last amendment. I see it as a big problem. I must say that the Ministry of the Environment also took a negative view of this at the time, because it really is a very large range of trees that are right around railways, trees and trees. So I would like to ask here to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u17	Thank you, Madame. Madame Kovářová, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u18	Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, we have carefully studied the Government's draft law amending the Act on Railways in STAN and compared it with the previous experience and legislation of the EU, in particular the Railway Safety Directive. Since some of the provisions of the Railway Act are illogical, they do not contribute at all to the safety of rail transport, let alone to the increase, or because they do not respect the already mentioned European Union legislation, amendments are tabled, which at least partially address this undesirable situation. Briefly, for example, the amendments strengthen the role of the Railway Authority to act as a national safety authority under the Railway Safety Directive. It is not enough for the railway office to exercise state oversight, that is, whether something is in accordance with or contrary to legislation. The railway office is primarily intended to carry out so-called safety oversight. These are basically safety audits where risks are identified for carriers or railway operators, a negative fact that may not be at all contrary to legislation, and yet may lead to an accident, for example. This also relates to the authorisation for the railway office to impose temporary measures, including immediate cessation of operations, if it detects serious safety risks, something that may not be contrary to legislation, exactly as the European Union Directive on railway safety provides. That means immediate action that can't be delayed. And all of this isn't the government's proposal for the Railways Act, though it should. The amendments similarly strengthen the role of rail inspection to serve as a national inspection and/or investigative body under the Railway Safety Directive. Rather, it is proposed to adapt the statute of investigation, the role of railway inspection, individual powers and powers, the independence of its status and investigation, exactly as the Railway Safety Directive provides or what interpretation of independence has already been given by the Court of Justice in its judgment in proceedings against the Republic of Poland, which has acted contrary to the European Union Directive. For example, rail inspection is intended to save not only the causes, but also the circumstances, or to detect other deficiencies outside the causal link, that is, why the human factor failed, whether the interior of the car is inappropriately designed and not causing unnecessary injuries and so on. Therefore, this cannot be limited to the investigation of the causes, as the Railways Act does. Similarly, the purpose of issuing safety recommendations cannot be limited only to preventing emergencies, but also to increase safety, that is, to take measures that do not prevent an accident, but eliminate the consequences. Unlike the law, this is also the case with the directive of the European Union. For railway inspection, it is proposed to return the authorisation of the exercise of state oversight in matters in order to restore proper prevention by random inspections of operations, since national surveillance and safety oversight are two different things, which was confirmed by the European Union Agency for Railways in 2020 by its audit in the Czech Republic. State oversight is also entitled to carry out the Institute for Vocational Examination of the Causes of Accidents. It is the same investigative body under European Union law as a railway inspection. Other amendments, for example, correct the current specific situation, where, while driving, for example, trams without appropriate authorisation, i.e. a rail vehicle licence, is an offence, but driving, for example, an international express on a main rail line without a driver's licence and a valid driver's certificate is not a violation. The issue of the so-called driver's licence monitoring is further clarified, and for emergency prevention and investigation, it is proposed that competent institutions, railway administrations and railway inspection have continuous online access to the system. Or it is also proposed that the Ministry of Transport resolves the maximum driving time of a railway vehicle, safety breaks and rest periods of persons driving a railway vehicle, which has been discussed mainly recently in relation to and development of railway accidents. The last amendment, which can be pointed out, is an alternative proposal to Martin Kolovratník's amendment to the conservation of the runway, which fully respects the administrative and/or effective intention of introducing the Institute of Conservation, but is nevertheless adapted to remove in a way controversial provisions which could lead to possible abuse of the Institute of Conservation of Railways, which would be contrary to the public interest in ensuring the transport service by public rail passenger transport. Despite the fact that Mr Kolovratník has announced that there has been some adjustment, his amendments, anyway, are instigating disapproval after the adjustment and, of course, I do not want to say opposition in some parts of our Republic. I think that instead of preparing together for the development of railways and their further modernisation, we could repeat the short-sighted mistakes of Western Europe in the 1970s, when the lines were also being canceled and now very hard to rebuild.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u19	I will ask you to remain calm so that the Member can express herself calmly, because she cannot concentrate. Well, I think the Member wants to suggest the debate in front of her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u20	No, she didn't bother me, she was quiet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u21	Okay, here's the thing: I'm gonna ask you to calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u22	Anyway, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think that it may have led to these amendments by Mr Kolovratník's lack of money, the waves of money are repeating themselves, and I think it is more necessary to push the state to add money to the development of railway lines. [[16.40 hours]] I must say that if it gives Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President, a smile, even with the Minister, it surprises me, because I know the situation where the track that led - and leads to this day, fortunately - has been cancelled around our village of Chýn. Fortunately, this has not happened, and there is currently a rise in the number of connections that will take citizens to Prague, because most of the village - and I think it also applies to the whole ring around Prague - will take people to work and school. So I think that these interventions should be very sensitive, because today these tracks seem inefficient, but once you build a bike path there - fine, so if you want to put in the tracks: for millions you build a bike path, first you pull it out for millions, and then again, when you say that the tracks would be nice there, then for millions you're going to remove the bike path? Try telling the cyclist that the railroad's more important, and you're gonna take his bike path. Then you'll build it somewhere else? So I think the arguments that are being used here are definitely not very good. Once you rip those tracks out, you'll never bring them back. And I think the railroad has a great future, and that's what we should be thinking. So, in any event, I would like to conclude by saying that rail transport, and in particular its safety, is crucial for the Czech Republic. That is why I would like to ask you if you really are concerned with its prosperity and security - as we do in STAN - to support my proposals in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u23	Now, to the general debate, Mr Stanislav Grospič. So far, I have a final application for the general debate. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, it is not very customary for me to speak on a subject that is completely unrelated to constitutionally-legal issues or to labour law, but may also lead me to a personal relationship with rail transport and its preference. I would like to say, in the context of this bill - and I am not proposing an amendment - that if, then, I would support the proposal in the original version as it was tabled, not in the version of the proposed amendments. Above all, I would like to appeal in general to increase safety on railways. Although we can statistically read that last year was one of the least extraordinary in the last 17 years, that there were at least railway and emergency accidents on the track, but we can also read that last July, last year, for example, belonged from the perspective of the Railway Inspection to the months of abnormally extraordinary incidents, when the Railway Inspection dealt with 135 incidents, which was almost a third more than in the previous month and the number of accidents on the crossings increased. It was thus excluded from the statistics of the inspection openly available. Accidents then increased regularly even in the coming months. It is, of course, beautiful that the state wants to increase investment in safety equipment and tighten the controls of engineers, but I fear that the privatisation of rail, especially passenger transport, the launch of other and other operators, albeit in accordance with the regulation of the European Union, is counterproductive, because I often witness this - and I ride the train almost every day - as they take turns at different stations by the engineers of different carriers. They're just gonna end up in shifts with one guy, and they're gonna transfer, and they're gonna go after another guy. And where are the safety breaks and where is the job safety and where are the credits? Thus, the Labour Safety Inspection, as well as the operators themselves, could focus their attention and give due importance to this, because this might also lead to the fact that those working on the track would not be overloaded and often brought to the edge of their forces, when they are at the edge of attention and distracted from the safety of work. Then, of course, it is also a question that, in terms of so-called electronization and progressing modernization of line security, the number of cases increases, where even on the single-track line, which is not, of course, one of the extremely busy corridors - for example, Prague - Ústí nad Labem or Prague-Ostrava, but still there are speed links, often in intermediate stations, the train has to stop, the engineer gets out, flips the switch, gives a signal and continues on the way when they pass the opposite train. I wonder if this is what we wanted to reach in the 21st century by electronizing and shutting down the service of intermediate stations and the so-called transformation of the Railway Infrastructure Administration. Now let me turn to why I am opposed to the substance of the bill in order to get the so-called possibility of preserving certain lines and keeping them for the future in case of an suddenly increasing interest, it was necessary to restore this line and restore passenger transport to it. I am pleased that my predecessor, Mrs Kovářová, spoke through you, Mr President, for STAN. STAN is in charge of the region in Central Bohemia. It is represented by the Civil Democratic Party, the Czech Pirate Party and these determine some parameters, of course also from the point of view of rail passenger transport. I am a little concerned that although the law has been gradually renewed since 2008 - and we have been able to renew - the operation and expansion of the railway network also on the lines which were so-called preserved, even though it did not know that term at the time, there is currently a proposal in the region to cancel a large number of lines, and some even without compensation. I would be quite specific here, and I would like to say that, for example, the line number 012 is considered, the Plaňany - the Smoke Stop, where transport would be stopped and replaced by buses. Another reduction is about to take place on track 014, Uhlířské Janovice - Ledečko, where only seasonal or recreational trains would operate. Track 062, Křinec - City of Králové, stop traffic and replace the bus. Track 063, Bakov nad Jizerou - Dolní Bousov, stop operation without replacement. Track 064 to 076, Mladá Boleslav - Mělník, stop operation on working days and replacement buses, weekend traffic. I note here that I suspect - I do not want to be confused now - that for more than 230 million there was a reconstruction of this railway line, which ended this year. There is also line 094, Vranany - Lužec nad Vltavou, stop operation with bus replacement. Track 095, Evil-Straškov, stop operation without replacement. Track 110, Hats in Bohemia - Peruc, operation only by seasonal trains, replacement buses. Route 121, Hostivice-Polešín, train restrictions except Amazon and Cycling. Route 124, Lužná u Rakovníků - Deštěnice, limitation of operation on weekend trains and weekly commute. Line 162, Rakovník - Karlovice u Rakovníků, stop operation and replacement of buses. Line 204, Březnice - Rosmitál pod Třemšín, stop operation with partial replacement of the bus. Route 233, Čelákovice-Mochov, stop operation without replacement. [[16.50 hours]] Perhaps they are individuals, perhaps the decision of the region affects covid. Perhaps reading these amendments will justify the sense and importance of what the Central Bohemia Region is up to. But I fear that if the proposal for some of these amendments passes with this law, it will only increase regional decision-making. And where is the preference for rail transport, where is the preference for efforts to be environmentally friendly, to exploit this transport, to make it accessible, to prefer it, to modernize it? Or are we going to be based on the lockdown period, covid, when the overall decline in passenger transport, whether on the railroad or in bus transport? I don't think it's a step forward. We disagree. And for additions - for all those lines outside one municipality, neither of the municipalities concerned, which lie on those lines, disagree!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u25	Now, let me see if... Minister, are you still in the general debate? [[Just a reaction.]] Reaction. Okay, 'cause then you're gonna get your final word. So please, you can respond, you have unlimited time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, let me apologize for coming a little later. It wasn't an intention. I had a long-term foreign visit from the United States, about 40 people, and it got a little longer, so I asked Minister Vojtěch. I'd split it into two areas, first the general one, then a little bit of the preservation, because I know it's a sensitive subject. I believe that we will not make this a policy, because this is a pragmatic, factual issue and I think we have a relatively good solution. First of all, what was said here to invest in transport infrastructure. I'll stick to the railroads. I think we all see that we are at the absolute peak of support for transport infrastructure in the history of the Czech Republic - 127.5 billion in the budget, 54 billion in railroads. It is such an extremely high amount, which is twice as much as it was a few years ago, when, to be honest, we may have a problem in the years to come to keep spending pace in this area. You can see that the railroad is definitely not moving anywhere in the background, it's roughly the same amount that goes to the Road and Motorway Directorate - to be exact, there goes about 60 billion, to the railways 54 to 55 billion. We see this not only on transport infrastructure in terms of railway infrastructure - we can look at the fourth corridor, we can see how we are building the crossings. It was supposed to be 500 by 2027, 200 just last year, about the same number this year. We can look at infrastructure in the form of railway station buildings - 114 are made at a given time, never more money went into this area, and actually, we have never been more concerned with railway safety than we are now. To a large extent it was also provoked by the unfortunate events of last year, which were not systemic in nature, were the failure of the individual, but nevertheless we began intensively to do so and the order of about 16-member security committee, which I immediately put together, regularly meets and acts at both the level of strengthening ETCS and at the level of strengthening crossings, as well as at the level of involvement in ETCS systems and local three-wheel lines, as well as we are dealing with legislation that is obviously associated with rail law, and this has already been partially discussed here. I'm a little overwhelmed by the fact that there may be a discrepancy with Union law. That is what we strictly reject at the Ministry of Transport, on the contrary, in the past there was a problem, this amendment should fix it. I'm not quite sure what was meant by the fact that the Railway Inspection should carry out preventive state supervision, as I noted very quickly here. This, in my view, is clearly due to the Railway Authority. After all, inspection is intended to save emergency situations, emergencies, circumstances and so on, and not preventively control carriers or operators - I think that is factually incorrect. Now, about the preservation. I know this is a subject that arouses a little emotion, but it is worth recalling that the Czech Republic has one of the coolest railway networks in Europe at all. If I am not mistaken, the Czech Republic, Switzerland, Belgium, Germany belongs to the absolute top and preservation at the moment, but in general is simply an appropriate solution to the problem, because the operator's obligation is clear: either it must ensure operability or it must - only it can then - be cancelled. The long absence of operation is now being addressed perhaps through preservation, which is some interim solution, and the proposal clearly envisages that it can be renewed. As far as time is concerned and why it was - it was not done in this way, so it should be said that the preservation was not planned as part of the government law, that is true. It was not until the time when the bill was already in the legislative circle or simply in the process, and in accordance with the Railway Administration, we acted in this way. However, I must say for myself that I fully agree with the wording of the conditions for compensation... [[Outside the microphone, the Minister is told by Mr. Kolohradík.]] Yeah, I'm just finishing up to speed things up. The tightening of the conditions is probably dealing with the objections we've all heard. However, thank you for the debate, in my opinion it is factual and I believe that we will finish this together. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u27	When I look... Yes, Mr Polanský for the general debate. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u28	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you haven't answered one of my questions. I'll try... [[The Minister for Off-Mike draws attention to the lack of time.]] I didn't tell you anything. I don't really care for a while. I will read you one more time, if I may, a passage of the article's text and ask you for a comment. The issue of the editor was - it is an article from February 14 from the server Z transport. [[A note from a Member from the diaper.]] I didn't get an answer. I'm asking for an answer, and I'm asking for a response. The editor asks: In the proposal there is an "a" connection for the minimum number of trains ordered. At the same time, the reason message is "or" with the same link. Will it therefore be necessary to meet the numbers for both modes of transport or only for one? This is a matter of the editor's direction to the Ministry. Your answer: "Unfortunately, we have met several times with reference to the alleged error. According to the Ministry of Transport, however, the proposal is written in accordance with the rules of Czech language and operative logic. The runway may be preserved if the conditions for a sufficient number of passenger and freight trains are not met. In the opposite way, the design can be read so that the preservation cannot be allowed if more than 1,500 passenger trains per year ride on the track, or more than 12 freight trains.' First of all, I want to ask you whether you stand behind this text, what came from the Ministry to the magazine, that is, to the portal as an answer, how the text came about, whether you knew about it, whether you authorized it and how you would deal with it, because this answer - ministerial, official - to the diary is simply untrue. It twists the meaning of the paragrafo version completely into the opposite message. Thank you for your answer, Wait, I'd still respond to Martin Kolovratník, or maybe to you. The railway inspection said it was nonsense, the authority to control: The railway inspection had that authority by 2017. It's not that it's nonsense. She really had it, then you canceled it. So that's it. To the preservation as a solution: if it is a solution to the current situation, then tell us how much it saves each year, because it is not obvious either. After all, every proposal should be financially assessed in some way. And when it comes to cycling routes, that's quite interesting. So if we preserve the track and build a bike path in its place, will it be a rail body, or will it be a roadway? Because the bike path is a road. The current construction law and the upcoming construction law do not allow one building to be both a runway and a road. So I'm wondering, if there's a bike path, there's got to be a cancellation of the track before that - a cancellation of the track, not a preservation. To cancel the runway. This means that there will never be a cycle path on a canned track according to the current or under the planned construction law if the runway had not been cancelled in advance. I would like to comment on this by the Minister, or by the rapporteur of the construction law, because I really don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u29	I'll see if anyone's still reporting for the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. [[17,00 hours]] And now I ask if the Minister, the rapporteur, is interested in the final words? I don't see anyone, so let's move on. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. I have Mr Ondřej Polanský as the first to sign up, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I therefore subscribe to the amendments under the numbers of the Houses of Documents 7711, 7714, 7719, 7720 and 7721. I explained all my amendments in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u31	Mr Martin Kolovratník will now appear. Mr. Jan Čižinský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u32	Hello. Thank you. I am applying to Amendments 7739, 8243, 8244, 8245, 8246, 8247 and 8645. That's the preserve of the track in the last good tuned version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u33	Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear and Mrs Dana Balcarová will then be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u34	Thank you. I'm reporting for press 8650. It is about returning to the original form of handling greenery along the tracks, so that what we have unfortunately experienced this year does not happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u35	Mrs Dana Balcarová will now appear. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u36	Thank you. I would like to apply to print 7595, which also concerns cutting around railway lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u37	Mrs Věra Kovářová will now come forward, so far the last application for a detailed debate. So, please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u38	I would like to sign up for the amendments that are conducted under House document 7724, which is a change in the conditions of conservation of the runway. And then the other amendments concern rail transport safety and are listed under House documents 7917, 7918, 7919, 7920, 7921, 7922, 7923, 7924, 7925, 7926, 7927, 7928 and 7929. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u39	I look around, nobody checks in. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for an interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? I therefore end the second reading of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-014-035.u40	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the agenda of our meeting as it has been adapted today. The following point is
