ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 89th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards, or I would like to know who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 25 February of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint František Kopřiva and Mr Jiří Valenta. Does anyone else have a proposal for a meeting verifier? No one else has a proposal, so we will vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number one, 74 Members signed in for 73, against no one. Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Jiří Valenta will be the auditors of the meeting. I will introduce you to my apologies: Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons and Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes from 11 o'clock to the end of the meeting day for work reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 89th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to extend the approved programme. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole proposal for the 89th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I will wait a little while longer because Members are coming to the O.R. Once again, we are now voting on the proposal for the 89th meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 92 Members registered, for 90, against no one. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of the show that is
