ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2000 Sb., on supported sources of energy, as amended / House print 966/ - third reading We launched this item on 10 February at the 79th meeting when we interrupted the debate. I will ask Minister Karel Havlíček and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Petr Dolínek, to take their seats. I would remind you that the motion for rejection and amendments are in the Houses of the Press 966/4, which was delivered on 26 November 2020, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as House Press 966/5. We will continue the adjourned debate. Mrs Langšádlová seems ready to continue her performance. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, you are the only one here today. [[Havlíček]] We respect that he's a government. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been talking here for quite a long time about the reasons why I think not only I but also the representatives of the five democratic parties on my right that neither Russia nor China should be invited into the tender and that there are still many other reasons why this law should be suspended. All those questions that have been raised not only by me, but by many of my colleagues must first be clarified. We as the TOP 09 are not against nuclear power, but this tender already has so many black dots that I think it would be better to stop it. And since this tender is directly linked to the negotiation of the law, I will suggest that it be interrupted, but before that, I will repeat why I will propose an interruption. What is absolutely essential to the success of a project such as the construction of a nuclear power plant? A broad long-term consensus. This construction, the biggest investment in the last 30 years, will be realized if it goes very well, in the future 15, 17, 18 years. It is clear from this, too, that the connection with this construction will affect four or five other governments. That is why the broad political consensus is extremely important. And we don't have that right now. [[9.10 hours]] I would like to stress that the Presidents of the Parties wrote a letter yesterday, a letter to the members of the Security Council of the State, but also to the directors of the intelligence services, as well as to the tripartite that expressed itself on the question. In this letter, we repeat again what Mr. Government Agent said. Miles, that is, the question that three suppliers from democratic countries can build a nuclear power plant, that, on the contrary, when we continue in the direction we face a major threat that we will have one offer, namely Rosatoma's offer. Petříček, Minister of Foreign Affairs, spoke of this several times. Why? Because Rosatom is a de facto state agency linked to the state budget of the Russian Federation, and there is a clear personal connection with the people on the penalty lists, with President Putin's advisors, with FSB members, and this is a really big risk. Another reason is - and this is also mentioned by the parties' chairmen - that, on the question to the Minister of Government, "Would the failure to address these companies have a major impact on the price of the project?" corresponds to: "The price of the project is significantly affected by sufficient time for the submission of binding tenders, as well as the overall organisation and quality of the preparation and execution of the selection procedure according to internationally accepted, standard applied procedures'. Lack of time space is one of the things that is not yet fully clarified and that threatens us. It must be said that this lack of time space would be significantly handicapped by Czech companies who would like to participate in this important project. The lack of time space will lead to the delivery of binding bids increased by tens of percent in view of the need to create considerable reserves on the supplier's side. So it is clear that if, as originally intended, the processing of tenders was only seven months - although I know that then the 12 months were discussed - the price is simply higher. So the standard time is really at least 10, 12 months. So, from what I have said here, it is clear that suppliers from the three democratic countries that we believe should be addressed would be sufficiently competitive, would create sufficient competition. It is also very important that there is sufficient time to prepare the project. What else is unclear? Furthermore, funding is not clarified. Something else has been said on the Government Committee, something else has been changed twice by the Vice Prime Minister on the day of the meeting with the political parties' chairmen, has been talked about by the state's 100% funding, in a situation where, for example, yesterday, the deficit of the state budget was approved only for this year after the deficits of the years of CZK 500 billion. It is quite obvious - and all experts point out this - that it will be extremely difficult to draw up a budget in future years, and the financing of a project such as the completion of a nuclear power plant is a great burden. I can't imagine any way to continue this project until this question is quite clear. Not only said, put forward by the government and discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Because it is the Chamber of Deputies, which discusses the state budget, and it is quite clear that the effects of such a project will indeed be very extensive. Furthermore, it is absolutely essential to clarify the purchase price of energy. The purchase price of energy was also an essential issue at one of the autumn negotiations. On this question, Prime Minister Babiš also stopped and said that until the purchase price of energy has been clarified - and this, of course, is also in the records of the government committee meeting - and it will not be guaranteed, the project cannot be continued. The director of čez Beneš said that he could not guarantee it. If we are to talk about this law, this question must also be answered clearly by the government. Of course there are other things that we should be clear about. We could have convinced ourselves in the last few months that not all the documents presented by ČEZ at the meeting correspond to the truth. That is why all these questions should be renegotiated not only on the Government Committee - and I would like to make it clear that we are discussing with colleagues, members of the Government Committee, to call for its re-call so that these questions are discussed - but also, of course, at another meeting with the political party presidents represented in the Chamber of Deputies. In this way, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to justify to you why, at this point, I will propose an interruption of this point by 15. 5. 2021. I ask the President to vote on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. There was a procedural proposal. I'll call my coworkers from the lobby. At the same time, I'm going to unsubscribe you all because I overheard the familiar knocking. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. I think whoever could've come in already. There is a proposal to suspend this point until 15 May 2021. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting number three, there are 88 Members, for 30, against 53. The motion was not accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u4	Since the proposal has not been accepted, I have yet to go back to the questions that I mentioned last time. To be absolutely specific, so that it is not just my opinions, my words, my arguments, for the most part I will be based on the opinion of a working group composed of the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Cyber Security Office, which on 14. 9. 2020 signed by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. And I would like to point out once again that the biggest problem with this tender, as I see it, is that the government itself has approved the government, and I will talk about it here, some security criteria, and it does not follow them when entering the tender and following the procedure. So it is not a criticism of the opposition, it is not unnecessary words, but it really is that in such a serious matter, the government itself does not respect what it has approved. And I want to explain it to you in the next words, and I believe you will understand, and what I just said here will be confirmed. It should be said that "the working group only assessed security issues in the procurement documents', so those reservations will only concern security issues. [[First of all,]] Moreover, as I pointed out, there are financial issues, that is to say, the financing of the whole project, the link between the project and future budgets, the ransom price issue, and many others. But really at this point, I will be talking particularly about security issues, so this concerns the following comments. "She didn't evaluate legal, economic and other aspects." I would like to point out that several legal analyses have also been prepared against the procedure and the procurement documents, which do not speak favorably of the preparation of this project. I think it is appropriate that these questions also be renegotiated by the Economic Committee, the Committee on Budgets, the Security Committee. It is unacceptable and incomprehensible for me that, although this is also a security sensitive issue, this project, this procurement documentation, this information, the contracts related have not yet been discussed on the Security Committee and that, although they have not yet been discussed on the Foreign Committee, the award of such a contract clearly has its geopolitical context. What should be pointed out is: "The state has been given extremely little time to prepare comments on the procurement documents; therefore, it cannot be fully guaranteed the completeness of this opinion from the point of view of protecting all security interests." [[second]] [[State]] Here we speak in this document on the protection of our security interests. Not foreign, our, the Czech Republic, its citizens. And yet this key working group, where the representatives of those institutions, was not given enough time to study and process comments. Isn't the role of the state to guarantee the security of its citizens? Has there been any failure here at this stage? Do you really think it's okay for a group of six key security institutions to say that they didn't even get enough time? Can you answer that, Mr. Vice Prime Minister? Why did this happen? Why have these institutions come under so much pressure that they have to write this to us? That's very serious. Why did that happen? Who does it serve? Come in. [[thirdly]] "The procurement documentation reflects government-approved security projects non-dos-ta-tak-ně, inadequately." So we're talking about the state's security interests, and this key group of experts, they're not exactly top officials, but they're experts from the Ministry of the Interior, the Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the SACUBI, they're talking about the government being reflected in the procurement documents - not the opposition, not some of our criticisms - but the government's approved security interests are inadequate. Why? Incomprehensible. "This concerns the interests which EDU II undertook to incorporate in the procurement documents under the first implementing contract.' So, just for the record. There is a treaty between the state and Čez, which has established an EDU II, and there is a commitment here, there is an obligation of EDU II, or Čez, to work on these security conditions. When we asked Mr. CEO of Čez about this, how could it be that they weren't working, he said, "I can't do that, I'm doing business. It's not in my jurisdiction to work it out. Well, then let's ask ourselves, how did he sign a contract in which he undertakes to work these safety conditions? That was supposed to be a question from you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister. Mr. Director General, you signed a contract here, you're committed to working on the state's security requirements. How come you signed the contract, and today you say you can't work it? Because it has been repeatedly said by the Director General: I can't work the security conditions into it, I'm dealing with business matters. Yeah, but here's a clear commitment to EDU II or ČEZ, the security interests of the state to project and incorporate into the procurement documents. I would really like to know, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, the answer to the question, did you discuss this with the Director-General, as you actually agreed when preparing the treaty between the State and EDU II? How did you imagine those security interests would show up? Or did you or the Director-General already expect not to respect and guarantee the security interests of the state? This is extremely, very serious. So, "this commitment was not sufficiently fulfilled." Therefore, this group states: "We require the following essential comments to be incorporated into the procurement documents, in particular the inclusion of safety criteria'. We haven't been informed about whether or not since, because this is September, it's happened. We cannot completely rule out that this has happened, even if colleagues who have looked at the tender documents, so they believe that it has not occurred. And it is not possible to continue until ČEZ has acted under the contract, before the MIT guarantees that the government approved those requirements were incorporated, and before we are informed. That's totally, totally critical. [[Four.]] "The working group considers the optimal and only really safe procedure for ensuring the security interests of the State, in accordance with documents approved by the Government, not to address one more time - "in the tender of a candidate identified as risky in government documents'. And once again: in government documents, government-approved documents, it was not only China, but Russia, which - in fact, after negotiations with the party chair, was announced that it would be addressed as a standard. Certainly this procedure is not recommended by the working group, so precisely the procedure that the government has chosen today, that is to say to Russia, the working group of top experts from these institutions does not recommend it. And he continues: "If risky candidates are approached, the room for manoeuvre for rejection will be significantly smaller than at present. [[9.30 hours]] And again, I would like to stress that at the meeting with the party presidents with the Prime Minister, the Vice Prime Minister and other actors, it was clear that if the risk actor, whether directly or as part of the consortium, would be excluded during the competition or at the end of the competition, there would not be much for ČEZ, but for us, for the state, arbitration will arise for the Czech Republic. Arbitrage, which does not have much chance of winning and which will cost us a lot of money in the order of at least 100 million, maybe up to billions, because the processing of the offer into such a large competition can really cost the applicants up to one billion crowns. This is really something that is being prepared, as I said, for one year, it is an extremely demanding thing. It is indeed a very difficult question, and it is therefore very likely that if the risky actors mentioned by the group were excluded during or at the end, it is very likely that the Czech Republic would be in the issue of arbitration. If a risk candidate were chosen as a winner, the risk of fulfilling the threats identified in the government-approved documents would increase significantly. One of the things that must also be clearly negotiated and which, I must admit, I do not have directly documented, but it needs to be mentioned, is the question of this - many of you have either participated in the tender as a candidate or, for example, you have held a competition at the town halls - and in that case it is absolutely necessary not only to set criteria but also the weight of the criteria in advance. According to the information that goes on, ČEZ actually sets criteria, but does not determine their weight, and therefore it will never be demonstrated how the selection of the supplier occurred. And I think we should be interested, too. So, fifthly, the experts say: "The very involvement of these entities in the tender itself may cause the threats identified in the documents defining these threats to be fulfilled. This would threaten, inter alia, situations where the Czech Republic can easily be blackmailable at strategic level by a risk subject or by its State of origin.' That's another thing that will still be mentioned there. On this subject, the Government has adopted several documents which are not public at the moment, and although we have asked for them to be made available in other cases, in cases of various reports or other documents under some regime, even Members who have no clearance can get acquainted with these documents under the conditions. At this point - and colleagues, especially a colleague of Žáček, who has been familiar with these issues in detail - have not been delivered to the Chamber of Deputies, it is not possible for Members who actually bear political responsibility to get acquainted with these documents. That is why, in the appeal both to the parties and to the appeal to convene the Government Committee, I think it is a fundamental question that all Members should have the opportunity to meet the security criteria approved by the Government, which are mentioned in this document, from which I quote, so that everyone can get to know them. After all, it is no more, no less than our safety, not only today, but security for those who come after us, for generations to come - such a commitment can really create a link for decades. The experts also write: "To begin with. First of all, it should be noted that the Working Group is fully aware of the seriousness of the selection of the supplier of the new nuclear power plant block as it will be a strategic partner in the field of energy security.' That's the question I was just talking about. "The nuclear source needs to be based, and the working group is based on the fact that the Czech Republic chooses a partner by this project" - and even the experts write here - "for 80 years, and therefore it is necessary to be very careful when choosing the candidate and take into account this selection from a number of aspects. Among other things, from the point of view on which trading companies and states the Czech Republic may be dependent over the next decades on electricity supplies and on whom it must not be dependent for various reasons. It should also be noted that there was extremely little time for the assessment of the entire dossier from a security point of view.' For me and this fact - I have already said this - is extremely disturbing. The state is publishing the largest tender in 30 years in huge volumes, because it will be at least 200 billion and it can be 300, because we know how all the projects for nuclear power plants are going to get expensive and longer, which is why we should evaluate and reconsider once again whether we have gone the best way. And yet it leaves extremely short time for these experts from key security institutions, several individual weeks to assess thousands of pages of documentation in English, so the tender documents are thousands of pages in English, and the Czech government will put our key institutions in a situation that they have a few weeks to evaluate this tender documentation. That's where I have to ask why. Why the Czech government, which should first of all guarantee security interests, why it acted in this way. And this is a project that is of the highest strategic importance. It is quite - I am sorry - that time is of course quite insufficient, and therefore not only insufficient, but just as worrying is what experts here write on other pages, I would also like to know the answer to how this could have happened. [[Lists in documents]] Because: "It should also be noted that, according to the numbering of the document file name and the numbering of the table describing the methods of implementation of defined security interests, it is possible that it has not been transmitted to security entities for the assessment of the complete documentation." So not only under the time pressure, within a few weeks, to discuss several thousand pages in the English language of a very complicated expert text, but also to note that the document was not passed in order, and I have to confirm that many of the documents we received from ČEZ were not correct and even suspected that it was not passed on to security entities to assess the complete documentation. [[9.40 hours]] Again - because you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, know about this, your colleague Jan Hamáček wrote this to you - I really think it is necessary to answer such things. How is it possible that there's a suspicion that they didn't get the complete documentation? How is it that they didn't actually get a chance to assess whether those security interests and to what extent they were reflected in the procurement documents? How could this happen? Who's responsible for the MIT that these security entities didn't get the complete procurement documents? "Therefore, the MIT was subsequently requested by the letter of the Minister of Interior to supply the rest of the documentation." So we have a project here for 200, 300 billion, maybe for the future, and we're in a situation where the key security entities don't even get complete procurement documents, the Home Secretary has to write about delivering the rest of the documentation. Doesn't that seem a little suspicious in the case of a project, the biggest project in 30 years? Don't you think that when these groups get under pressure, they don't have enough time, they don't get complex procurement documents, you don't find it a little weird? Why is it so confusing? Why did this happen? Who does it serve? Who set it up like that, and who wants to do that? What's the interest? Well, it is certainly not in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and their security. "In this case it was subsequently explained by a member of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that they really were for an unknown reason" - here we write for an unknown reason, Mr. Prime Minister, explain to us how it is possible that key subjects were given incomplete documentation? And then the MIT says at the handover of the rest that "for an unknown reason the documentation files submitted by ČEZ to the Ministry of Industry and Trade were numbered not 1 but 4 and was omitted when numbering the file number 12. [[from number]] This was subsequently documented by the sending of the transfer protocol, where the documents submitted and the said documents correspond to the protocol. File numbering is strange, however, the working group has no choice but to rely on confidence in the correctness of ČEZ's actions." Well, I don't have that kind of trust. How is this possible? How is this possible that the MIT and you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, have committed this because there is no way to verify this circumstance? So not only did they not get the tender documents in order, they had little time to do it, and when they assessed our security interests, it is stated here that they could not even verify that what was finally delivered to them as the tender documents, they did not actually have the opportunity to verify that it was the real tender documents. Therefore, this opinion is also given subject to the fact that "it is not possible to verify whether the tender documents submitted are really complete'. This is very disturbing news for me. I'm asking myself again, why? Do you have confidence in such a course of action? Do you really want a company that is not able to properly transmit the procurement documents, a company that is unable to project the security requirements of the State into the procurement documents as it has undertaken in the contract with the State to build a nuclear power plant? Isn't that a risk? Then it's a gamble with our security on all sides. "For the above-mentioned time-limits, any such statement on security issues related to documentation shall also be submitted subject to the fact that, in the specified extremely short time and extremely large volume of material, the whole text could not be passed properly in order to guarantee with certainty that the text of the procurement documents is without problems from a security point of view." [[♪ So ♪]] Shouldn't it be a government, in particular, that should want the partner to project security interests into the procurement documents under the contract? Shouldn't it be the government, first of all, that would want a report like this signed by the Vice Prime Minister who should want the certainty? I think she did. I even really have great doubts as to how this would have been evaluated once if the correction had not been made and there would not have been any certainty that the security interests were reflected. This is serious. "It is necessary to count that there may be hidden problems in the document" - just those that are clear there and still may be hidden there - "infecting security that could not be identified in such a short time. General procurement documents and opinions. In accordance with the text of Article 40.4...."sorry... "4.4 to 4.6 of the Tripartite First Implementation Contract on Cooperation in the Construction of a New Nuclear Source in Dukovany in the Czech Republic, hereinafter referred to as PPS, between the companies Power Plant Dukovany II, the joint-stock company, ČEZ, the joint-stock company, and the Czech Republic were submitted to the Ministry of the Interior for the assessment of tender documentation for the selection of the candidate for the construction of this power plant. According to Article 4.6 (g) of the PPS, the Ministry of the Interior has a task" - so it is a task actually set out in the contract, it is not an arbitrary act of the Ministry of Interior or experts from other security institutions, but directly from the contract, in the contract the State itself set itself, in the tripartite agreement between Dukovany, ČEZ and the state - "organize and create a common position of intelligence services and other concerned entities, in this case the SAOKIB and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, on security issues procurement documents." So the message I'm reading to you for clarification isn't some high-end step in this expert group, but it's a demand that comes from that tripartite contract. This means for recapitulation: the state first accepted the security conditions, then signed this tripartite contract, in which on the one hand CEZ is obliged to reflect the security conditions adopted by the state, then according to paragraph (g) of the article, the Ministry of the Interior is directly determined as the institution which is to subsequently organise and create a common position from which I read to you. [[4.6?]] That's why it's also signed by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček. So this position, it's not so much more, it's really exactly according to the procedure set out by the government, and it doesn't want to follow my own misunderstanding. "This opinion here is therefore a common opinion of all security entities', their experts. The government has approved the definition of security interests - and there are, in turn, documents that I will quote, which Members and members of the Government Committee should have the right to get acquainted with them, and unfortunately, that is not what is happening. Once again, we will ask for this and the party chairmen will ask for it. I don't know why they can't agree with that. [[Meet him?]] So: "The government approved the definition of security interests that must be protected in the construction of new nuclear resources" - the security interests of the Czech Republic, us - "in the report of the Working Group on the Security Aspects of New Nuclear Resources of the Standing Committee on the Construction of New Nuclear Resources, it is V 147/2019, and subsequently a year later it approved its more detailed development in the form of material, namely T4/2020. [[9.50 hours]] So, as is said here, the government committee also has its security group or working group on security aspects, and we are also involved as representatives of political parties, and yet, despite repeated requests with this information, which shows the document from which I read, we have not been informed. For both documents, with its resolution, the government "in both documents, with its resolution, ordered these security interests to be followed and fulfilled'. So, not me here, opposition MP, but the government, the government itself, by its resolution, ordered these security interests to follow and fulfill them, and therefore, within the framework of a contract with the partners to project these security interests into the procurement documents. This is one of the steps, of course the security interests should be fulfilled not only when projecting these interests into the procurement documents, but also during implementation and so on. But now we are concerned with the procurement documents, the procedure of the government and ČEZ in this matter. "The approved document under number D56/2020 was subsequently transmitted by the State to ČEZ and EDU II." And what does that mean? It follows that the government approved and handed over this document to ČEZ and EDU, the two partners. They therefore knew what was in those safety requirements, and therefore they had to know that when they signed a contract with the state that they were committed to taking these safety requirements into account. If, on the government committee several times, Mr. Director General Beneš said that they couldn't reflect the security requirements, he shouldn't have signed the contract. The fact is, they got these documents, they made a commitment to project them, and they didn't project them. That's basically a very simple line. "In Article 4.6 (a) of the PPS, the EDU II has undertaken to comply with these safety requirements and has, under Article 4.6 (c) of the PPS, the task of incorporating such defined security interests in tender procurement documents.' That's exactly what I've been talking about since the beginning and what's absolutely crucial. They got the documents, they made a commitment to project them, they didn't project them. And at that point, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček, with his experts, should be the first to say that it is not possible to proceed that there is a government resolution here. This really isn't about criticism from the opposition. I am talking about the fact that the government did not ask, did not see to it that the contractual partner reflected in the documentation what he had committed himself to. The documentation is considered... "At the same time, according to Article 4.6 (d) of the PPS, ČEZ and EDU II have undertaken to demonstrate that they have fully covered all the security risks and threats that have been passed on to them by the State." So you can see that even in this contract, all of these steps were actually well set up - a commitment to project, prove to the state that security threats were projected. I really cannot imagine that we are moving forward and that you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, are not worried - and this is really a tender in the order of maybe hundreds of billions - and you are not worried at all about considering the continuation of the tender where your contractual partners will not prove such a crucial thing to you. And they're committed to this contract, the contract is in my opinion, at least from how we've all had the opportunity to get to know it - well, there's a precise description of the mechanism that they need not only to project, but to prove to you. We have the right to know the answer to the question of how ČEZ and EDU II have demonstrated to you that the security interests approved by the government have been projected. How it happened when the group here actually said they weren't. "The news services assessed the will and ability to undermine the state's basic security interests in the construction of new nuclear resources in the aforementioned documents" but, above all, the government itself accepted and approved these security criteria. That's why she should follow them. I can't imagine, it's not just an opinion from the security community, the intelligence community, it's really a government commitment. "However, what these services are not able to assess is the degree of dependence that would arise if the risk candidate in question were to be a supplier, albeit only in a consortium, of a new nuclear source. Consultations with the MIT and the team of the government agent have shown that both the position of the main contractor and the status of a member of a potential consortium give any dangerous contractor the opportunity to delay and block construction and demand compliance for it", such as the termination of sanctions after, perhaps, somewhere, they will tame a piece of their sovereign neighbor's territory, as we know it. So there's a very serious suspicion that somebody might actually be holding the Czech state's neck, that the power plant that we're talking about here is that so many entities are there to have a good price, and we want to build it, I see it as a really false argument. Not only because almost all of the power plants that have been under investigation in the last decades, and I've been doing that, they've been building, they've been selected from three entities. A sufficient number without any influence on the price, as the government clerk here wrote to me. But also because we should not simply be in the control of states that could blackmail us and which would not actually enter the competition as a commercial entity that might not enter the competition with the intention to finish, because Rosatom has ten nuclear power plants built around the world at the moment, and he has two teams that have the opportunity to participate. Does anyone really think that in this situation it could be a completion? "Basic conditions for the specific processing of security interests into procurement documents. [[Comments]] It cannot be said that the procurement documents would not incorporate defined security interests at all." Neither did anybody say they weren't at all. Even Director Beneš didn't say that he wouldn't, he just said that they couldn't - and he admitted it - that they couldn't all work there, that they couldn't do it as an economic entity, even though they were committed to it and even though they had to prove it to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. "Documentation as an instrument for protecting security interests includes the possibility of excluding dangerous suppliers by a government decision and a number of options for excluding dangerous subcontractors." That is there, but we have already said before that a step like this would, with a high degree of probability for the Czech Republic, involve arbitration and other impacts on the already very tense future state budgets. "However, in relation to the supplier, the tender documentation gives this possibility to the government only after the whole, at least two years of tender takes place, for security reasons. As far as subcontractors are concerned, the documentation sets out a number of possibilities for the State to intervene in the designation of subcontractors; in this respect, unlike the applicant himself, the possibilities of the State are paradoxically broader." We should also know the answer to the question of why it was actually set this way, that there is a security procedure in a different position in relation to the main contractor and possible subcontractors. "In general, the entire tender of the tender documents provides for the possibility of the State to obtain information, documents from the tender process and the like." [[10.00 hours]] "In addition, theoretically, there is still a possibility to withdraw for security reasons from the contract already concluded with the selected supplier." Here I would like to ask myself another question: if you look at the tenders and the realization of nuclear power plants throughout Europe, and not only in Europe, but in other parts of the world, let us ask ourselves what role the price and time plays. Because when we look, most of these projects are eventually implemented at three times the price, sometimes they are realized at three times the time, and it is clear that a candidate who is not a commercial entity that is linked to the state budget of the Russian Federation is very likely to give it a lower price. But would this really lead to the real completion of the construction under these conditions? Would it really be so that, at a lower level, if we were to look away from the security interests at this lower price, would it ever be under the conditions that two teams have ten power plants built up, would it ever be completed? Because we're doing this because we need some capacity, actually the capacity of an energy source. So we also have to ask ourselves that question. And if there were differences? If there was a difference between the price of Rosatom supplier and the supplier from South Korea, from America or from France, how much difference would it have to be? How much does our sovereignty cost, what do you estimate it to be? She's very valuable to me. "In addition, theoretically, there is still a possibility to withdraw in the case of a contract" - and that is also what I was talking about at the beginning, that some here clearly said: We do not want these risky partners. And they do not say that, as I mentioned, only representatives of five democratic parties, but so does the government in its documents, that it should not be, and yet it does not do so and does not supervise the commitments it has committed itself to, and their partners. So as it says here, there's a risk that even if it's closed, a new government will come -- we said it might involve four other governments -- and even if it's closed, it can still be cancelled. With the consequences of arbitration, but to eliminate, for example, the security risks that unfortunately the government does not want to take into account right now. "This would, however, stop the whole project." Therefore, it may be better to stop it, suspend it, rethink it, evaluate it now in every way, on the economic side, on the side of the impact on the budgets of individual households, on the side of the impact on budgets in the next maybe decades, on the pages of the purchase price. It's really and last but not least from the security pages. So the question here is that "the conclusion of the contract with the supplier is so the only tool in the tender documentation that allows for the risk to the security interests of the Czech Republic, which would occur only after the selection of the candidate and the conclusion of the contract with him." For me, clearly in the interests of the Czech Republic, the security, but also economic, is held at this moment before addressing applicants. "The question is, however, the reality of such a procedure" - because the further we will be from the time of the selection procedure, the less real and more expensive is the procedure that would protect the interests of the Czech Republic. [[by]] "Although it is possible to document the integration of the security requirements of the state with the construction without the supplier according to the material. [[properly complete the construction]] [[EPC]] However, the documentation mentions the need to provide all the necessary assistance to the supplier for the completion of the power plant, but in practice, especially in the case of termination for geopolitical reasons, this assistance cannot be reasonably expected. The two options referred to above to affect the selection of the tenderer, the rejection of the tenderer or the withdrawal of the contract with the supplier are only relative and extreme instruments.' [[correctly reactive]] Therefore, the procedure to address all four, regardless of our security interests, is not, to say the least, wise. He's not wise! "And so both suffer from a similar weakness: firstly, their use would mean a considerable loss of financial" - we have already talked about arbitration - "the loss of time and confidence in the state's ability to secure this important project" - it is another thing that the more confusing and really confusing is that the government signs the contract and then does not monitor its implementation, approves its security criteria and then does not require them, so that we become the most credible partners for anyone; and indeed, the risk that, in such a case, those partners who really come into consideration as suppliers from democratic countries will not invest nearly one billion crowns, will not go into this tender and will not achieve what the minister talks about very often means greater competitiveness, competition within the competition - "the one would probably mean the launch of a number of litigation" - maybe for decades, and we have also experienced this - "or arbitration." They are therefore relatively inefficient instruments, because the government's ability to use them will be greatly reduced in the light of their consequences." Then, when I read this, when all the circumstances, not just this document, I get to know, I don't understand at all, I don't understand, I don't understand, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, why do you want to continue in such a dangerous way? "In contrast to the first implementing contract, which refers to a mechanism which would allow the investor to pass on the security requirements for subsequent incorporation in partial contracts, the tender documents submitted do not have this mechanism adjusted.'; Why? We don't know. "That's why it needs to be worked out." But this is a mistake, and I'm very sorry, a mistake on the MIT's side in particular. How come this mechanism isn't here? How come he hasn't worked yet? Or keep us apprised that it's being processed. But we don't have that certainty, because the confidence at this point is very low, it is necessary to introduce us to the next government procedure, because the risks - even for you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, in the future, if you would move forward with such a tender, I think it would be high and quite well said... hm. "It can be summed up that it is paradoxical that documentation gives a number of options not to approve dangerous subcontractors, but it gives practically only one tool to treat the problem of a dangerous candidate." And here we come to the situation where the government committee was still talking about the fact that, in fact, the three candidates from democratic countries would probably be. It was the so-called 3 + 2 model, and suddenly we have model 4 out of it, and it's like we're excluding the Chinese that probably never really cared about it anyway. Russia is in our position as a possible main candidate, but here we learn, and I will stress once again that paradoxical is that documentation gives a number of options to disapproval of dangerous subcontractors, but it gives practically only one tool to treat the problem of dangerous candidates. And that's how Russia gets into the position of the main contractor's candidate. [[10.10 hours]] "At the same time, security forces identified and government-approved interests, see D56/2020" - not criticism of the opposition, government-approved document - "a primary focus was on the level of danger of the applicants themselves" - that is, those who will be directly addressed - "not primarily to subcontractors. In this respect, the procurement documents shall take into account the key security interests set by the Government insufficiently.'; So we have the procurement documents, we have the security documents approved by the government, they're not reflected in the procurement documents, even though the Contracting Party is committed to it, and nothing's happening. Unacceptable, absolutely essential. I don't understand why. "Ministry of the Interior additionally" - so additionally - "has received, upon request from the MIT, an overview table" - how is it possible that for such a serious assessment the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for organising this working group, did not receive complete materials, including a table? - "which describes how, in the investor's view, they were incorporated into the documentation of the identified security threat. However, it is necessary to state" - and now I beg your attention - that "from about 17 identified threats"... from a government document... [[Laughing under the cover]] So 17... Wait, but that's not funny... Peter... so it must be said that out of the 17 identified threats defined by the D56/2020 government document, "there is some way of commenting on the table, but only about 5 are actually treated." [[rapporteur Petr Dolínek shows something and passes from the news table to another part of the hall, laughter in plenary]] So out of 17 threats from a document approved by the government, five are treated. So that we can realize the ratio, how it's worked out. We have 17 defined threats... [[Minister of Industry Havlíček offers water.]] Thank you, I do, but thank you, Mr Vice-President, I appreciate it. So out of 17 defined threats, we have five. It's a total failure. This shows that the security interests that the investor should have incorporated and protected in the documentation are not sufficiently incorporated. I think it is absolutely essential that the Vice Prime Minister and the other members of the government, because it is the government's responsibility to inform us, as members of the Government Committee, how it is possible that five of the seventeen defined threats are actually addressed. "It should also be noted that many of the measures listed in this table are standard, obvious security measures, such as compliance with the obligations under the law and other cybersecurity regulations, which would have to comply with virtually any project or critical information infrastructure, even if a special study on threats related to the construction of a new nuclear source had not been prepared." Does that mean that we will not even keep what is standard for substantially less significant and financially large investments in less significant strategic investments? Of the 17 demands of government-approved security features, there are only five of them, and are you calm? I don't. "A number of measures listed in the table are not at all a solution to the security interests identified in the above documents. Many measures also have the character that they do not address the nature of the security problem, but only lightly alleviates it. It is surprising that the document does not incorporate or use a demonstrative list of possible criteria set out in the report V 147/2019 on pages 21 and 22.'; Unfortunately, we don't have a chance to meet him. Why? "The use of these criteria in the procurement documents would take into account the threat to the security interests defined in this document. It is therefore recommended that the investor incorporate these demonstrational criteria from pages 21 and 22 of that report into the tender specifications so as to avoid risks.' And so again, we have to ask, but most importantly, we have to get those answers. Has it been done? Can you guarantee us, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, that these reservations have been incorporated? Can you guarantee that all the seventeen reservations have been incorporated into the procurement documents? Are we sure that ČEZ and EDU II informed you about all these steps? How are our security interests treated? "In order to properly fulfil the obligation to incorporate defined security interests into the procurement documents, the criteria to be considered by the Government when deciding on the possible exclusion of the tenderer should be taken into account in Article 1.5 of the document.' So forward and clear criteria. That's also what I was talking about. It is necessary not only in the selection of the supplier, but also in advance clear criteria that could lead to the exclusion of the supplier. You, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, have spoken several times about possible exclusion during or at the end of the tender. Can you guarantee that there are already clear criteria for this, as required here? "We propose that the criteria be incorporated into the part where it is declared that the government can abolish the tender." That's a perfectly logical request. It belongs to this section, if it is written that the government can cancel the tender, it is quite clear that the government must set its criteria in advance. If you at all accept this risk, which I would consider for both safety and economic reasons as a false procedure, but if you decided to go that way, it means that you would decide to exclude yourself during, at the end of, the criteria under which the government can cancel the tender are absolutely crucial. This is not only important for us, it must be very important for those applicants, it is a prerequisite for us to be a solid partner at all. It is unimaginable here for several months to say that the government can exclude someone during, at the end, while the government did not define these criteria for the possible exclusion of candidates. That's what I think is very alarming, too. And we're supposed to get an answer on how this government will approach, how those criteria will look like, so that the condition of predictability is met. Predictability. "This incorporation is in the interests of transparency - and predictability to the tenderer' - indeed solidity to the potential tenderers - and at the same time it is in the interests of compliance with the obligation to incorporate government-approved security interests in the procurement documents." It's been said several times. "The demonstration should best be based on the government approved document No V 147/2019'. This means that it should be a truly demonstrative, clearly defined list that contains these criteria on page 21 and page 22 - which we have never seen. But it's probably serious if these institutions and their experts require that this be given, so that the government clearly defines these criteria for the possible exclusion of candidates during or at the end of the tender. "We therefore propose to add a demonstrative list directly to the text." [[10.20 hours]] "At the same time, it is necessary to specify the diction of the provision so that it is quite clear that the state can enter the process for security reasons at any stage of the preparation of the tender, the tender itself and after it." [[to intervene]] This means that from this paragraph, which I have just quoted from the report, it is clear that there is no clear exact diction of the provisions in which it will be clear that the state can go into the process - and you are talking about it, that it can stand in the process during, at the end of the intervention, to rule out, but the state itself did not write it exactly. He didn't give himself exact criteria. I think that's also at this point... And we're just talking about the security area. Colleagues will certainly also talk about the issue of price purchase, the price of construction, other aspects. And now we're still based on just one single document based on a contract approved by the government and documents, security documents approved by the government. Of course, the whole issue of the tender is significantly more complex than just these security issues. I am getting to the point that I have talked about here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies several times, and this is a question of the procedure under the Public Procurement Act § 29a. "The question is whether it is sufficient to justify the use of the exemption from the Public Procurement Act" - because according to Section 29a, and we know that this is a safety exception, these are indeed in the law, when we look at the wording of the Public Procurement Act, we look at the wording, so there must be serious security reasons. In fact, it's a question of not proceeding as standard under the Public Procurement Act at a tender this big, you may be addressing individual applicants. But it can only be if you have serious security reasons. And I'll get to the text of that group of experts, but it's perfectly logical. On the Government Committee we discussed this several times, whether it is possible to proceed under the Public Procurement Act for this exception under Section 29a or not. Finally, it has been interpreted that there are really serious safety reasons, but those serious safety reasons are defined precisely in the security documents approved by the government, and it is assumed that when applying this paragraph, the government itself will follow them and demand their application. And that is the big contradiction when we can still come across the procedure under the Public Procurement Act - only that the State is given the opportunity to rebut the candidate who wins the tender. We know that if we do another competition and we don't proceed under this Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act, then you can't deliberately eliminate anyone at the end of the competition. "The working group is concerned that simply establishing this possibility to refuse back the candidate by the government" - that is to say only that you can say that you can refuse back - "is not enough for the judging authorities to use this exception." I would like to say that not only the IOHS - Office for the Protection of Competition can judge this exception, but the courts can judge it and the European Commission can judge it. This means that if we apply Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act in this way, as proposed by the government, that means the possibility of exclusion, and we have not yet taken into consideration the criteria, it will not take into account de facto our own security interests approved by the government, so it is very likely that the project will not succeed, because at the first opportunity, and believe me, it is big money, it will end either at our ÚOHS for a few years, so the arguments that we have to write it out quickly, so it does not apply at all, so it will end up at the ÚOHS, it will end in court and it will end with the European Commission. And we know that this project is being assessed at European Commission level, that it is being assessed whether there is unacceptable support, that this project is being assessed for many reasons, for many criteria. And it's not the bad European Commission. We know in advance that we have to notify there. We know in advance that we have to go through with our process. And here, in advance, we learn from our own documents that our procedure is questionable. So whoever's doing this is de facto stalling the project in advance, and they're de facto questioning the project in advance. Well, that's not reasonable! It can't be the one who says he's interested in building. That's not reasonable. "In this possible negative opinion, the whole project could then go bankrupt." That's exactly what it says in the report signed by Vice Prime Minister Hamáček, and so does Vice Prime Minister Havlíček. "This is one of the key issues on which the whole philosophy of the project is based. This is because it will not be implemented under the Public Procurement Act. It should then be noted that, for example, the interpretation of Section 29 (a) of the Act, the MMR, has changed radically during the preparation of the project in the last two years" - and this is also uncertain because, of course, the only person who can give the interpretation of the law is the court, only the judicial review would then give us certainty of the procedure. But still, there's a gesturer here about the procedure under the Public Procurement Act, and that's the Ministry of Regional Development. There was a significant shift to the view as to how this law can be followed and according to § 29a. I've had these discussions several times on the government committee. "Originally, the use of § 29a MMR was not considered appropriate." This was really in the discussion on the government committee. "He subsequently changed his position and considered it possible. Therefore, the key basic security interests in the process, including the procurement documents, should be actually and conclusively treated.' And this is precisely when Section 29a applies only in case of serious safety reasons. But then it means a commitment to the contracting authority, in this case ČEZ, to treat security interests, because, among other risks that I have mentioned, we will stand before the whole project is actually thrown down from the point of view of competition by the ÚOHS, the courts, the European Commission. Whoever says he wants to build here should not allow such risks and make such completely unnecessary mistakes. Completely unnecessary mistakes! Because there's a serious reason for it to be legal. "It is not possible to accept a situation where, on a mere legal issue, the entire project procedure may fail in one of the key proceedings - court proceedings, before the European Commission," Úohs, as has been said here. "However, if the three criteria set out below were to determine the safety parameters of the person who can apply to the tender, this would be a clear fulfilment of the provisions of the implementing contract in accordance with Section 4.6 and would at the same time eliminate seriously threatening problems in denying the applicability of the security exemption under the Public Procurement Act referred to in Section 29a. In this way, when determining certain parameters, this debate and questioning the validity of the application of Section 29a would no longer pose a threat." [[10.30 hours]] So even in this document processed by the security group, there are proposals that should be met to avoid the risk of future litigation, reviews of the UOHS, review by the European Commission, or in the framework of notification, and to succeed. And I think that whoever says he wants to build and even complete, because the goal should not be to build, but to complete, when the state decides to go this way, so if it were in the interest of completion, these risks would be treated. I think that this is another matter which should be clarified to the Chamber of Deputies, committees, political party chairmen, members of the Government Committee, how this application and application of Section 29a of the Public Procurement Act have been resolved. "It is also clear that the ongoing time and progress of the entire project will increase the difficulties and problems associated with possible efforts to resolve security problems, especially those already in existence at the beginning of the process" and this will be solved without significant costs and losses. And we thought that the costs and risks are in the area of financial, political, temporal. The later such decisions are taken, the more you put it off, the more security reservations you resolve, the more you put your head in the sand before, the more possibilities for solving the smaller and costs for the Czech Republic and its interests will be higher. The maneuvering space for the government will simply be narrowed down over time. However, the problem is that we have a few months before the elections, and this government and the governments coming into this trap, and that is really not fair. And consciously, because all the warnings here have been made, not only here, they've been said here several times, it's been documented, it's incomprehensible to me this procedure. "One of the problems is that, in document 1.2A and AA on page six, it should be noted that the set conditions are, in principle, excluding certain potential candidates. This relates to the requirement for the existence of an already built reference power plant with the required power.' And what I'm going to read now is that it also needs to be paid attention, because from that information it seems that the documentation is really prepared for someone only, because: "In particular, conditions exclude ATMEA, which does not have a reference nuclear power plant, and KHNP of Korea." And we know that there's a very small, limited number of possible suppliers in the world. There is talk of five in the case of Czech delivery, but we still set criteria in advance, technical criteria, that it directly handicaps some of the applicants or even excludes them. "Their reference power plant does not have output up to 1200 MW, as required by the tender documentation, but 1400 MW." Why is that? Who's comfortable with that? Who wants it that way? "This is similar to EDF, which wants to offer a reactor with a capacity of 1000 MW, but it has not yet built it has only a reference reactor of 1600 MW. It is then a big question of how strictly this criterion will be applied in the selection process because it could easily be used as elimination." And I really don't understand when someone gives criteria and knows what capacity, where, because there are really a few companies, they built up, why they write criteria that exclude some entities, or they actually don't say in advance if they're fundamental and elimination. This is really an environment that very much questions whether other entities besides Rosatom, which is probably written on, should invest resources, energy into it, apply for a contract. So this also shows that the contracting authorities are not as competitive as possible, as much of the best price as possible, as we have been convinced here several times. Why is it so modified? "We therefore propose to amend the text of the tender documents relating to the reference power plant in such a way as to ensure that the diction in this section does not exclude one of the tenderers." Even this remark and reservation is so serious that I think we should be familiar with the procedure. Has this diction been modified? Or, in advance, in terms of criteria, have we written it down by excluding some, or most, candidates in advance? Is this about the competition, is this about the best price, or is this just for somebody? This is one of the other things that government officials and representatives of ČEZ have to inform us about at all these levels. "Therefore, as an essential comment, we are making a proposal to put several basic safety parameters in the procurement documents" - I believe that there must be all those that the government has adopted - 'that any candidate or all members of any consortium would have to meet'. This means that the safety criteria cannot only be met by the main candidate who will be addressed, but indeed by all the members of the consortium. "The requirement to establish such minimum security requirements is based on the conclusion of a government-approved document" - we only want the safety requirements set out and approved by the Government of the Czech Republic itself, the Government of the Czech Republic has clearly established the security requirements, please the Government representative to follow it - "Report by the Working Group of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Energy on Issues concerning the State's Security Interests in the field of nuclear energy - revision number 04, meeting number V 147/2019, page 21," already mentioned. "This government-approved request cannot therefore be ignored in the documentation." And we are in a situation where he has been neglected, and we have the right to know the answer to the question of how this is possible, how has been corrected. Finally, the contractual partner is to report to the MIT that all safety criteria have been taken into account. How come the MIT didn't see to it? Who is responsible for this political responsibility? "This request also requires, by the way, that interested parties be tested against these requirements before being invited to submit tenders.' So, again, according to the government approved parameters, they are not to be eliminated during, at the end of, all those risks, but, by the way, once again, this requirement also requires that the parties to the proceedings be tested against these requirements before. Has there been a test? Is this testing carried out before they are addressed when the parties' chairmen were informed that a supplier from Russia would also be contacted, which, according to all the documents approved by the government, would not have to undergo the testing? [[10.40 hours]] Is it that now that CEZ is talking and negotiating about consortiums, will this test be carried out before they are invited to submit offers, even if they are part of the consortium? How is ČEZ negotiating about the consortium, what is the role of the MIT at this time, what is the role of the government? Did you leave ČEZ completely free to move forward and then just let it get to you? Will you send a letter to Director Beneš that he can run the tender because everything is fine, even though the terms of the contract have not been met? What's the government's idea? When will the safety testing be carried out as approved by the government? What's the next move? "Without these criteria, there would be paradoxically only economic or technical criteria in the tender documentation which may be elimination criteria for certain tenderers." In short, it is not possible to approve safety criteria and then leave only economic and technical criteria. "At the same time, even more important safety criteria, which are required to contain according to Article 4.6 of the PPS procurement documents" - so you will sign a contract where, according to the contract, the procurement documents really have to contain the security criteria, and then it doesn't contain it and nothing happens. We have not heard: the Government has called for negotiations with ČEZ, demanding that this be corrected in order to be supplemented. There's no such thing. The security interests of the state need to be defended. "It would be difficult to justify such a situation." It really is for several reasons, whether it's the application of the Public Procurement Act, whether it's all the other reasons. "It should also be pointed out that according to the PPS, Annex C, the notification of the evaluation of tenders is to be submitted to the State by 31 December 2014. 12. ." [[2022]] I know there's been some sort of shift here. I know that you announced at the meeting, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, along with Mr. Director General that there should be a 12-month deadline, and that can be assessed positively. However: "The tender documents submitted indicate that the selection of the preferred tenderer or tenderer will already take place on that date. We consider it necessary to make clear in the tender documentation that the evaluation of all tenderers will be submitted to the government by that date' - so that you have not treated this in order to be translated into the tender documents - 'no matter how successful their tender has been in this evaluation. If this were not the case, this would significantly increase the risk that there will be only offers from risky tenderers - perhaps just from one - "which will significantly reduce the state's decision-making position" among the tenders submitted. We are really going the way that it is possible that candidates from democratic countries may not even make an offer. We're going to say that we want as much competition as possible, but we're going to stand before one offer, because that's even very likely. It competes with a company that is de facto a state agency linked to the state budget, it is really hard for typical commercial entities, regardless of how they succeeded in evaluating their offer, and this threat that the decision-making position of the state will be significantly reduced. "Elaboration of the SAO's warning, National Cyber Security Authority, of 17. 12. 2018, hereinafter referred to as a warning. The submitted documentation does not contain any pre-contractual risk assessment pursuant to § 8 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) cybersecurity decrees" - so not only are there no evaluations in other areas of security, but we know that, for example, cyber attacks on strategic targets such as nuclear power plants or such as extremely serious, but unfortunately currently cyber attacks are almost daily, we experienced this, for example, at the time of the coronation of hospitals, and our partners in other countries are experiencing this, sometimes they are state actors, sometimes they may be private actors, but we know in advance that the SACCIB has developed a warning here, and there is no pre-contractual risk assessment in the submitted documentation. So we are not even yet fulfilling the safety standards here - 'this is mandatory to carry out an assessment of the risks associated with the subject of the selection procedure, in which the warning would be taken into account, calculated the value of the risk and considered the adoption of various risk reduction measures; [[correctly "this is mandatory"]] it is not clear whether the information contained in the warning has already been implemented and, therefore, whether the information contained in the warning has been taken into account in the design of the documentation determining the selection of the supplier.' That's another thing. Cyber security is one of the important factors of our security, and I would like to ask very much to be informed about how these requirements have been taken into account in the procurement documents, but also throughout the process, because this is completely incomprehensible to me. "In general, another document refers to the SACCIB warning, however, only in relation to subcontractors and persons controlling the supplier, and in addition only in relation to the warning to be referred to as a threat to a particular supplier - although it is certainly appropriate to keep this formulation in the documentation, since it is not possible to predict what measures will be issued by the SACCIB in the future, the warning thus designed has not yet been issued, the warning from 17. 12.2018 identifies the technical and programme means of certain manufacturers as a threat to cyber security, not to the supplier's person.' So we are learning - and I assume that you also care to proceed in the interest of our cyber security - that even these reservations have not been taken into account, and I ask that this be properly discussed, so that we are assured that proposals are being followed up according to the warnings of our expert groups. "Recommendant comments. Please note that, unlike the documentation itself, the possibility of rejecting the applicant's government is not mentioned in the table to sum up the security interests identified by the intelligence services as a project.' Although you, Mr Vice Prime Minister, repeatedly say that it is possible, in the course, ultimately, and even though we have all the risks, even though we have stressed that if you do not do this in advance, it will probably be attacked in court, at the Competition Authority, the European Commission, but even in contrast to the documentation itself, you will allow the government's possibility not to be taken into account in the security table at all. "According to the available information, the investor continues to work on the text of the tender documentation and corrects it at a time when the time limit to which the State is required to prepare its comments is already running.' So I'm just going to repeat what I read here: the state has some time to process comments on the procurement documents, which should be in some kind of final version, and there are still changes to the document. I think this procedure is simply unacceptable. There it is necessary to process the documentation according to the requirements of the State, as the other entity has undertaken, the processing of the documentation has been completed, and then, calmly, comprehensively, the State has assessed from safety, economic and other criteria whether the documentation is in order. I cannot imagine the confusion and doubt in which the whole process takes place when it says here that the investor is still working on the text of the tender documentation and correcting it, even at a time when the time limit for the State's comments on it is running out. How can someone work and change documentation at a time when the other subject - but in this case, the state - is to assess whether the documentation matches or does not match? [[10.50 hours]] I would like to ask that we be informed of this as well. How could you possibly go into such chaos? How can you judge something if you don't actually know if it's a definite version, a phase? That's totally against all logic. Are these comments still valid, or have they already been changed? At what stage is the procurement documentation, who will assess it, and until when will it be assessed? How can changes be made to something that has already been expressed, and then someone will comment on a completely different version? Does anyone else know what he's talking about? And that is, please, the tender documentation for the biggest tender we have here in 30 years. Incomprehensible. "It should be noted that we therefore assume that the investor of the State will be quite clearly and accurately informed of the differences in documentation and the reasons for which it was incorporated between the first version sent by the State and the second version." Maybe the third, fourth, but definitely the last one has to be judged. To this end, all the entities representing the State should again express themselves and assess the latest version from their expert viewpoints. Alternatively, the State may discuss, for example, the inclusion of safety criteria and, in agreement with the State, this can be changed. But there's no way we're gonna find out that she was the first version, the second version -- this was sometime in October. Maybe it's the fourth version, the fifth version. What version does it actually apply, which version of the tender documentation? This is so serious! You, who have ever participated in any competitions, can you imagine that you are not actually expressing yourself to the latest version - do all those candidates get the same version? According to what and according to what requirements? Who's in charge of editing the procurement documents? How is it adjusted? Who's responsible for this? Will the MIT, Mr. Minister, have the last word to put his thumb up, will the government discuss it? Will she be sure that in those thousands of pages in English - and I hope the government will discuss it - they will be responsible for their own demands, not just the security ones, were they even taken into account in this chaos? That's a big risk. So we have the differences between the first and the second versions -- we were thinking, maybe we already have the third or the fourth. No one knows, but we'd like to be informed. "It shall be forwarded to the State after the initial comments have been drawn up. Given the scope of the text, thousands of pages" - in English, expert text - the investor cannot expect the state to agree blindly with the second version" - or the n-th version - unless it is made transparently aware of what changes have been made in the text in the meantime beyond the State's comments." [[♪ I'm right, I'm right ♪ ♪ I'm]] We know how to write change documents. I cannot imagine that the State would give any consent to the next procedure at all, without clearly indicating what the differences are, why the procurement documents were actually progressed and approached to any changes, and especially to guarantee that all the requirements of the State are really in the tender documents, as ČEZ undertook to do. "That is why we expect that in the second version of the tender documentation - or n-th - changes from the first version will be clearly highlighted once more. Transparency vis-à-vis the State is a condition necessary in this respect to enable the State to express its views positively on the text of the tender documents.' Here's a really big responsibility from the Minister, the Vice Prime Minister, for how his team will assess this at the MIT, because it could have very serious consequences, and how it will be presented to the government. Can the government assess this very serious document with so many comments? Will such procurement documents approve, in spite of all those mentioned, procedural errors? "Another problem is the possibility to take positive account of the supplier's offer of co-financing." We know this is a Hungarian project when the Maďar decided to go this way. I hope that on the way to Budapest, the Prime Minister also learned how this project stands and that it is a path not happy, not leading to the goal of building a power plant. Just stick the flag. Another problem is the possibility of financing. "On the one hand, this option involves suppliers to complete the project and its price, but also eliminates some candidates. Commercial contractors that are not going to support the state - we've already said that there are so-called state contractors here, we know that in short -- that's what I'm so happy to read here -- there are state contractors here, de facto linked to state budgets, that's the Russian and Chinese company, then there are ordinary commercial entities; Can such unbalanced entities compete at all? "Commercial suppliers, which will not support a state that may also take into account other than commercial interests' - much about how they are not only taken into account through these projects, but conquered certain countries, how this plays a role in foreign policy - this possibility may not be available to them and may put them at a disadvantage or eliminate them entirely from the state-supported applicants." So once again we come to the fact that we, in the process proposed by the government, do not get to greater competition between suppliers, we do not get to the target. This means achieving the lowest possible delivery price, then, for example, when delivering energy. But with that retreat, the state is actually threatening to achieve these goals. "In the tender documentation is the only one who is required to have clearance pursuant to Act 412/2005 Coll., on classified information, companies that will provide physical protection of the premises." So those who provide physical protection on the premises will have to have a background check. "There will certainly be a number of subcontractors who, by the nature of their access to key parts of the nuclear power plant and important information, should also be examined." I believe that even this fundamental comment cannot be ignored. How is it possible that clearance under the Secret Information Act will be provided by companies that will de facto carry out physical security of the premises, and how is it that the State has not taken into account that such clearances are to be provided by key suppliers and subcontractors of often very sensitive components such as management systems and the like? I don't understand. I don't understand. This is certainly not an approach that guarantees the security of the Czech state. "We recommend considering whether to require clearance from other designated subcontractors and suppliers. The provisions on sensitive activities and safety competence of Act No 412/2005 can also be inspired in this regard. [[by]] [[11.00 hours]] "The procurement documents should also include the fact that under the first verification contract the government may have security requirements which the investor is obliged to take into account at any time during the project, preparation and construction of a new nuclear source.' So we're treated that the government may have these demands, in my opinion it should have, but it doesn't. I don't understand why he doesn't declare them from the start, and he doesn't. How is it that these safety requirements are required, how is it possible that they are required from the security of objects, but not from those involved in supply and sub-supply of often very sensitive and key technologies? How is this possible, I don't understand, I don't understand. And it is certainly not a defense of the state's security interests by the government, if they do not do so. "It is a question whether, for the elimination of identified security risks, the demand for delivery by companies registered in the EU, NATO is sufficient for selected technological parts. Taking care of such a company is not a complicated problem. Rather, it should work with who is the ultimate owner" - to start a company, any company in the territory of the Member States of the European Union, NATO really is not a problem, that in itself is not a guarantee, which is why this approach is absolutely insufficient in this area to defend the security interests of the Czech Republic - or who is the producer of the technology. We therefore propose to amend or refine the diction in this respect in the procurement documents." This, too, is a very serious reservation. Again, we demand that this be guaranteed that it has been progressed, that other suppliers, subcontractors are required, and actually those checks, so that we know that it will not only have to be the security of the building, but especially those key contractors, subcontractors who will receive key and sensitive information. "We also give consideration in the case of formulas which refer to persons controlling suppliers or subcontractors, not to replace the formulation of a person controlling formulas or not to extend the wording in the sense of a person able to enforce on the decision-making of suppliers or subcontractors. In clause 24.4 (b), we consider it correct to replace the supplier with the word subcontractor." Ladies and gentlemen, I could go on like this. However, what I have read to you here is so serious, proving that there are really many errors in the procurement documents concerning the security interests of the state that the state has set itself. They're not projected. We were thinking 17-5, not the rest. There are comments on the error procedure under Act No. 29 (a), the Public Procurement Act. We thought that this procedure could be challenged by the ÚOHS, by the European Commission, by the courts. We thought that to exclude during or at the end is a great risk, not only a risk for applicants, but especially for the Czech state. By this procedure, the Czech State would expose itself to arbitration, other sanctions. We thought the cyber security requirements weren't even met. I could go on like this. I call on you here, Mr Vice Prime Minister - there are a lot of reservations, there is a serious suspicion that the security interests of the state will not be fulfilled, that the demands that you and, above all, I did not talk about something that we want to do as an opposition, I did not talk about anything, I did not say a single sentence and the only request that we, as a democratic opposition, would like to ask you to do - I would just ask you and ask you to meet the security requirements that the State itself has adopted in its resolutions. It's nothing extra, it's nothing from the opposition. Just please do what you're committed to. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I beg you very much to introduce us to the Chamber of Deputies with all the documents so that you call a government committee to reunite with the Party Chairs, because the procedure is not in order. I mean, just what I said here, when the procurement documents are changing over time, at a time when the state entities are assessing it, and many other completely specific reservations. What I read is not something I would write, it is a document prepared by experts of key security institutions, signed by the Vice-President of the Czech Government, your colleague. For me, it is incomprehensible that you do not deal with this with greater commitment and activity. And so once again, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I would like to call on you not to gamble with our security interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Jaroslav Holík, then Mr Jan Lipavský, will now respond with factual comments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u6	Hello. Mr President, allow me to thank you for a two-hour speech that no one, except for me, seems to have listened to, colleague Langšádlová. At the outset, the colleague suggested that this would be the safety of our country. I don't know, but we had a black Krieg here a week ago when a number of Western countries - Sweden, Germany, Austria - were almost out of power and our nuclear power plants helped them. [[Blackout?]] Texas is experiencing a similar situation now. I mean, we're losing some applicants under the safety code, I remember, yes, there was something similar in the past. I would like to call on: Let us give space to the competition, let the best man win, let him win, who will give the largest space for the involvement of Czech companies. Remember that our republic or our engineering has enough experts, and in the secondary field we are the world's top. And as far as security is concerned. Czech nuclear power plants buy uranium on the world market, so not that we are dependent on anyone. Currently, we have six blocks of Voronezh type working with us, working without any problems. The only problem was with Temelin when we were buying fuel from Westinghouse. So let's not, I don't see any security in this. And I'd like to ask, what are we going to do with the six blocks of security? Should we blow them up? Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mad at me, I think we really need to give space to the best supplier. [[President: I'm sorry, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u7	Next, Mr Jan Lipavský will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mrs Langšádlová's speech. It follows to me that the Vice Prime Minister has lost political support for the core, as he has repeatedly mentioned, and has clearly failed to handle security issues, because otherwise we would not be standing here today. Please note that this is an extraordinary meeting, particularly convened. And while there has been a meeting, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, with the political party chairmen, there are no conclusions about the meeting and it is not clear how you plan to proceed. I believe that you will be performing today, because during the last hearing, this was not the case, and that at least you will try to outline how to proceed in some way here. [[11.10 hours]] Otherwise, Mrs Langšádlová said a very important question about how much our sovereignty, how much our security costs, geopolitical security. Let us repeat this question, let us ask ourselves this question. And I'm gonna use the rest of my time. Mr Holík here spoke of the fact that we are buying uranium on the world stock exchanges - that is absolutely nonsense, that is not so. There are two companies that can supply fuel to nuclear power plants that can produce them, maybe more, but in principle the Czech Republic uses them, or CEZ uses them, two companies. One of them is Tvel, that belongs to the Russian system, the other is Westinghouse, that's the Američan. It is not true that there was only a problem with Westinghouse, there was also a problem with Russian fuel, but it was technical problems that were solved during deliveries. Of course, it's about how some of the substances that are used are mixed in there. But the advantage of nuclear fuel is that you can stock it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u9	Sorry, time's up, Mr. Ambassador. [[Mr Lipavský: Thank you.]] There will still be a factual remark from Mr Jan Zahradník, and then the President Vojtěch Filip, President Vítězslav - Vlastimil Válek, is in fact signed up, and I apologize in this order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Mrs. Langšádlová was talking about security. She also meant security in terms of the participation of Russian or Chinese companies in the tender. I would like to mention the other meaning of the word security, and that is energy security. We must realise that our countries must be energy-sufficient and safe. Let us remember that there is a plan to walk away from coal, or close all coal power plants. The coal commission proposed the term 2038, but it is known that there are some oppositions in the government against this proposal, there are some ministers who would like to enforce the coal end in our country in 2033, ČSSD flirting with the Green Party, but unfortunately also some colleagues of Minister Havlíček of the ANO movement. So if that were to happen, it would be completely irresponsible and gambling with our energy security. Of course, renewable resources will not save us. It is possible to model a situation that would have occurred in 2034, i.e. after closing coal, had anticipated renewable resources that the OZ Chamber wants to propose. Our consumption would be satisfied for two days, for example, in November, if conditions similar to those of November last year, even in November 2034 after coal was closed. Renewables are not as clean as they think, their production and their disposal are burdened with a large carbon footprint. Core: I was talking here last time about support from the Netherlands, we can hope for support from Sweden, but also Poland wants to build new nuclear resources. There we should turn, apply for help in the fight against the European Commission, for nuclear energy to be seen as pure energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u11	Yes, time, thank you for keeping me. Chairman Vojtěch Filip, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech I would like to remind you of Section 95 of our Rules of Procedure. The third reading of the bill can be started at least 14 days after delivery and so on and a debate is held at third reading in which only corrections to legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in writing or printing, adjustments which logically result from the proposed amendments or, where appropriate, a proposal to repeat second reading can be proposed. And I could go on. Why am I reading this? Because what we're experiencing here is typical obstruction. Obstruction is part of every parliamentary work, and each of the Rules of Procedure somehow remembers it. Our legislative process usually lasts six months. This is the time to discuss the law in the first reading, in the second, in the third reading, to send it to the Senate, or to return it and give it to the President to sign. Absolutely - Ideally, it takes 120 days to add up all the deadlines that the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and the President have. This bill, which is why I am responding in this way, has been here since 11 August last year, so that is a lie, I repeat, it is a lie that there would be little time to discuss it and that no one would look into it. The Organizing Committee ordered him to the Chamber of Deputies, the Guarantee Committee appointed the Economic Committee, and we gave a deadline for discussion at first reading for 30 days. It was long exceeded and in November last year the Security Committee also discussed this bill. The second reading was 20. 11. and even there was shortened the period between second and third reading by seven days to seven days. On 1 December, the guarantee committee discussed the conclusions of the second reading and prepared this law for the third reading. We are simply in a situation where obstruction is applied to this law, although - and I thank my colleague Zahradník, that he has mentioned here our dispute over whether we will build new resources and begin to address our energy security without coal and with another source. So the deadline that we thought we could handle in 120 days, and we have therefore cut as the Chamber of Deputies the deadlines between first and second reading and between second and third reading has long been exceeded. The law's been here almost 200 days, so it's not true that there's not enough time. It is not true that there is not enough time for this, that it is not discussed and that experts cannot comment on it. Therefore, I have no choice but to proceed according to § 59 para. 1 and 2 and propose to the Chamber of Deputies that everyone who performs here should have the right to perform at the latest twice in the third reading, for a maximum of 10 minutes. This is my procedural proposal, which I rely on in particular on § 59 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u13	Yes, there has been a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote. I will just wait a moment, because all Members have the opportunity to come to this unexpected vote in the hall according to our agreement. I've heard the withdrawal request, I've checked you all out, I'm asking you to re-enlist with your voting cards. [[A request for a performance.]] A counterproposal? You can counter-propose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not comment on the speech of Vice-President Filip...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u15	No, you can't, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u16	I'll do that later in the show. I would like to give the counter-proposal for a procedure to be twice 20 minutes, and I think it really is not appropriate for Members to be given the right to comment on such a serious issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u17	Yes, first of all, we will vote if no one objects to the counter-proposal, twice 20 minutes, to restrict the performance. And if that doesn't work, we'll vote on the original proposal. There's another suggestion, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So to make things a little more complicated, I'm making a proposal for two or five minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u19	Mr Kubíček's proposal has been made for two or five minutes, all these proposals are voteable. I propose that we vote first on Mr Kubíček's last counter-proposal, then on the counter-proposal - wait, that is twice 5 minutes, then twice 20 minutes and then twice 10 minutes. [[11.20 hours]] Does anyone object to this procedure? No, then we'll vote. So the first proposal, the limitation to two performances of five minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number four. 85 Members registered, for 56, against 24. We have accepted the motion. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, I am afraid that in this ordinary hearing of the law, when we are not acting in an emergency or in an accelerated manner, we cannot reduce to five minutes speaking time. So I guess I object to your...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u21	I think it is possible, and the Chamber of Deputies voted for it. I can't imagine why that wouldn't be possible when we decided to do it. I'm not saying my opinion right now, but as chairman, I have to defend the House's decision and the rules of the game. The Member or the President of the Vlastimil Válek Club shall be applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u22	I am in a difficult situation because I have been in the advisory body of President Drábová for a long time, which I greatly appreciate. I teach at the Faculty of Nuclear Physics. I was prepared to do everything we could to have a serious conversation. The situation is unclear, I have to consult the club and other opposition partners. [[Rush in the hall.]] That's why I'm taking a break by 12:00. Thank you for your kindness and kindness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-084-01-001-001.u23	Yes, of course, this request must be complied with, which means that I am declaring a break for the meeting of the TOP 09 MEP. And since the break goes beyond the time we had approved for the 84th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I remind you that the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 12.00.
