ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 961/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft law will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, before I briefly mention the basic parameters of the law, let me say that this law really brings a breakthrough in ensuring systemic care for the smallest children. We are particularly concerned with the choice of parents to choose their parental strategy and to reconcile family and working life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. If you have anything to do, please go to the foyer. One more time, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u4	We will actually have a network of childcare services within three years, which is what we most miss in the Czech Republic, we are second in this category from the back of the EU, guaranteed by the state, quality and especially financially and locally available care in the Czech Republic, also in Moravia and Silesia are missing. At the same time, it must be said that the current functioning of the children's groups has worked very well, so we will take over this quality basis and use it to improve the whole system. In the wider long term, children's groups are an example of how European money is to be used. My goal is to set conditions for the next programming period so that the maximum amount of money is used to really help people... [[The performer waits to calm down in the hall]] ... especially to working families. Exactly as was the case with children's groups, and we plan to do so with the support of the nursery. It is the nursery and social services that represent the most tangible aid to people from European money. It is necessary to ensure that European money and its use are accompanied by an absolute minimum of administration and that it is not written so-called. projects for projects. This, too, is one of the reasons why I am seeking to use European money as well as other funding for day care. Now very briefly on what the amendment brings. The nursery should be for children from six months to three years, respectively. until August after her third birthday. This is where the follow-up to the school law and the guarantee of a place in kindergartens is to take place. In the nursery there will be one caring person for six children, up to eight children in the largest nursery. Where at least one child is under one year old, the capacity will be limited to four children and one caring person. We also improve quality by introducing a quality standard, this will be controlled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and by compulsory continuing training of carers, which will take eight hours a year, once every two years a first aid course for young children, so that there is really ongoing professional training. Caregivers will have to have a new medical minimum that reflects the needs of the smallest children. The professional qualifications of a nanny for children in a nursery will also be established, which will focus on the development and health of the child within three years. At the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we have already submitted a proposal for a qualification and evaluation standard, and the Ministry of Education is now creating a new professional qualification and we are also preparing, and this is important, funding opportunities, which means the reimbursement of this newly created retraining. [[14.40 hours]] Last but not least, in the amendment, we also revise the penalty mechanism so that parents are protected to the maximum. We are particularly concerned with well-established contracts for the provision of, compliance with, and compliance with, quality standards. The amendment envisages effective from 1 July this year and new funding will be provided from 1 January next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u5	[[He knows the doorbell.]] I assure you, Madam Secretary, it can be much worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u6	Yes, yes, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u7	Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u8	All the facilities that have been created since the summer of next year will be subject to new rules. The existing children's groups will have a three-year transition period, i.e. new conditions will apply to them from 1 September 2024. This represents enough time to adapt to the new situation, whether it is the age of children, the name of the facilities or the qualifications of carers. At the same time, we will provide all necessary support for this time at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs through methodological support within the framework of the project with this amendment of the law. From 1. 9. 2024 there will be a clear and accessible pre-school care system; A nursery for the smallest with a smooth transition to kindergarten no later than September of the year when the child is at least three years old. As far as finances are concerned, today children's groups are financed from European money by around 9,800 a month per place - it is within the range of 9,100 to 9,900 crowns. But today, according to the current rules, total subsidies may fall according to fullness and illness. I'm afraid that's really true. That is why we want to set the monthly normalization per child in this stable funding and the level of normality will be determined annually by the government. This means that the amounts are not part of the amendment. But the basic principle will no longer be a real attendance, as is the case today, but contracts with parents. Today, the amount of the allowance depends on how sick the child is. This is unfair to us and we do not want to punish parents or children's groups for being sick. Newly we also introduce a dietary allowance following the model of private kindergartens ten crowns a day per child. Overall, the system should cost about CZK 1.4 billion per year at the current capacity, which is 16,000 children. As I mentioned at the outset, I will endeavour to negotiate money from the European Union. At this point, everything is on track. But it's not about competition projects. Whoever knows the system knows what a horror movie it is. But the way we want it is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will be the beneficiary and will further redistribute the funds as provided for in this law, if approved, that is to all who will meet the conditions but without competition of individual projects. This will ensure security and stability. The most frequent fees for a children's group today are about CZK 3,200. It is almost 6,000 crowns in Prague and I consider it very expensive. There are often fees for children's groups of 10, sometimes even 15,000 crowns. In that case, there is no way we can talk about the availability of care. We do not want luxury or elite kindergartens, but really affordable care for working families with children. That is why we want to put in place a ceiling on parental contributions so that the service is actually available. And I stress that the ceiling will be set by the government. It is not moving, as is still in the memory of some Members, the ceiling of 1/3 minimum wages. No, there is no indicator in this amendment, but of both amounts, i.e. the State's contribution and the parents' contribution will be decided by the government. And both will be assessed together so that the founders of the children's group can finance and care is available to parents. That's really crucial. Both amounts, the State's contribution and the maximum contribution from parents will be determined by the Government. And the goal is to finance the establishment and availability of working families with children. Madam, honourable Members, I appreciate your support in discussing this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 961/1. I will ask the Committee's rapporteur to take the floor. As Mrs Pastuchová is excused, she is ill, so Mrs Lenka Dražilová will take the role. We're at second reading, no need to vote. Please report on the committee's deliberations and justify any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u10	Hello, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to read the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 66th meeting held on 6 January 2021 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, and some other laws, House printing 961. "After the justification of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Jana Pastuchová and after the debate by the Social Policy Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic - first of all - recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the Government Bill amending Act No. 247/2014 Coll., on the provision of child care services in a children's group, as amended, and some other laws, House press 961, as amended by these adopted amendments.' Now, Mr President, I do not know if I should read the amendments because they are really embedded in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u11	It's not necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u12	Okay, so that was one. "And secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Assembly of Deputies, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u13	I thank you and open a general debate where we have six entries at the moment. First Mrs Jarošová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u14	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to comment on the Children's Care Act in Children's Groups. The SPD movement supports the main objectives and objectives of this law, which aims to reinstate the nursery into the system of care for the smallest pre-school children. In our view, care for the youngest and pre-school children must have a systemic character and must be primarily organised and financed by the State, as this area is closely linked to the overall support of our working families and positive demographic developments, which is an essential public interest and priority of the SPD movement. At the same time, we see the limits and shortcomings of the government bill. For example, the State must not leave all the weight of establishing and operating future nursery and nursery classes in kindergartens only in municipalities. Many of them need and will need strong support from the regions and governments. The main interest of the SPD movement is to ensure that children have equal access to pre-school facilities and care at their place of residence throughout the country. We therefore consider it necessary to ensure, through this law, the availability of nursery and children in small municipalities to thousands of inhabitants, where, for example, there are no classical kindergartens and where the current children's groups are the only type of pre-school facility, by being entitled to visit them until they begin their compulsory schooling. In this respect, representatives of the SPD are co-submitors of the relevant amendment to this law. The interests of parents and children must come first and the new law must not allow the possibility and risk of harming them and worsening their situation against the current situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová will be next, Mr Juchelka will be ready. Before the honourable Member comes, I will read one apology. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný apologizes for the whole day for working reasons. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Children's Group Act, which was adopted seven years ago. The reasons for its acceptance were as follows. This law was intended to partially and temporarily help address insufficient capacity in nursery schools in and around large cities. It was also intended to allow pre-school facilities to be in small municipalities where the municipality could not afford to set up a kindergarten, either that it had no money for such an investment, or that it would not finance operations, or that it also had a small number of children. The Children's Group Act was also identified as an alternative for parents, mostly mothers who wanted or had to return to work for financial reasons, for example for students. The important thing was that children's groups were established in companies and ministries. They also represented an alternative to kindergarten schools, because the smaller team, adaptation and preparation of children to kindergarten school, found there in children's groups instead of children, for whom the great collective was inappropriate. Most of us agree that children's groups have certainly fulfilled this role, these reasons for which the law was adopted. And I am so glad that today finally gets to second reading, because not only child group service providers but also parents with young children are waiting for this law. I am also glad that we have consulted this amendment across the political spectrum with individual Members and Members, and I hope that we will reach a compromise that will be in favour of both providers and parents with young children. At first reading, given that it was a time pass, I did not, in agreement with the Minister and at her request, give some reasons and some of the pitfalls of this law. So let me repeat them and present them today. The first is a change of name from children's groups to a nursery. Of course, it will mean an administrative burden, some financial costs. But as it was said from the Minister's mouth, even there could be some partial bonification, let's say, if this new name had passed. The second challenge is the qualifications that are needed for carers. Unfortunately, teachers from kindergartens, social workers, and only nurses or doctors fall out of the bill. What does that mean? That 80 percent of current caregivers will have to take a new exam, although they have already passed the exam - the name of this exam is "nurse for children until they begin schooling" - and have performed the position of carer in children's groups. It will not only bring large financial costs. The exam is worth CZK 5,000, preparatory courses around CZK 10,000, and this represents a financial burden both for children's groups and for future and current carers who could have passed the exam a month ago and will have to perform it again. Here I see as a partial solution the promise of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs again that both the courses and the exams will be covered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and that would solve partly one problem. But at the same time, I find it pointless that 80 percent of those who passed such a test will have to do it again. This will be discussed more by Mrs Adamová, with whom we tabled an amendment. However, I think that these two issues are not exactly the main problem that concerns children's groups. The first and very serious pitfalls of this law are that of the parents. On the one hand, it is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum that it wants to create a system that will be financially accessible to all parents and, at the same time, to ensure sustainable funding. And this is also related to the second pitfall, and that is new funding, because the availability for parents and sustainable funding, as the law would have expected, virtually. How much is being talked about, so it is certainly not possible to achieve these two objectives. If we look at the funding of the nursery, it is clear that money from the European Union ends and the principle that the nursery should be financed from the state budget and from the parents' contribution. If we say that we want to create a system similar to that of funding in kindergarten schools, let's look at the comparison between kindergarten schools and nursery school funding. The funding of kindergarten schools has three pillars. The first pillar is the so-called standard for wages and salaries, which is CZK 5 000, which is from the state budget. The second pillar is money for other operating costs, such as water, electricity, small repairs, and these costs are paid by the municipality. But at the same time, she gets a contribution from the budgetary determination of taxes to one place in kindergarten, and that's 9 per cent of the total amount per pupil of the budgetary determination of taxes. The third pillar of the funding of kindergarten schools is the so-called kindergarten, which is CZK 500 and above, and that remains the kindergarten. Now let's take a look at the nursery. Cribs in the first pillar are similar to kindergarten schools. According to the standard, they get money in simple terms for wages and salaries. And as I have recorded the amount that would be considered, it is CZK 7,500, and this is because care for children less than in kindergarten is more expensive. The second pillar, however, - these are the other operating costs - is completely falling out. The amendment to the Children's Group Act doesn't count on it. It does not count on a contribution from the state budget, and therefore, if we are talking about the ceiling - and the third pillar of the funding of the nursery, which is the contribution from parents - we are going to have a huge hole here. Once again, we ask ourselves whether availability for parents and sustainable funding go hand in hand. It is for this reason that we are proposing an amendment, which will include so-called other operating costs in the contribution from the State, which is therefore water, sewerage, rent of buildings and the like. This amount will be determined by the government, as provided for in the law. With this amendment, we will release our hands to the government so that it can increase the amount that it expects to pay today, from CZK 7,500 to higher, so that it can be covered by the operation of children's groups, i.e. by cribs. [[15.00 hours]] The second amendment - the initiative came from mayors and mayors from smaller municipalities. These were the municipalities that set up a children's group, rather small municipalities, because they could not afford a kindergarten, investments were unavailable for them, traffic would not tighten and they had a small number of children, and yet they wanted to have preschool facilities with them in the village. They wanted to provide services for young families, because, as we know, rural depopulation is a fact. Another reason was that children from their village did not get to the nearest kindergarten in another village. That is why we propose that children's groups can continue to function in such a municipality until schooling begins. There are not many villages, there are about thirty, children's groups that set up municipalities. At the same time, such facilities, respectively the municipality, would receive a contribution from the state budget, i.e. from the State, and would also be maintained by pre-school facilities in these very small municipalities for the reasons I said. The question was how to choose the border, what small municipalities are. We in the original proposal, which you may have seen in the system, suggested that it would apply to municipalities into thousands of inhabitants, but from the Ministry of Finance came a valid complaint that you could move to the village of two people, the population will rise above a thousand and a functioning and subsidized service from the state in short and well will have to end in the village. I will not discuss exactly the tables on which we were based here, I will possibly present this to the Committee on Social Policy, but we have identified and chosen a different method, and we have limited it by referring to the municipalities of the first type, which could therefore have maintained a children's group, namely a nursery, until the beginning of schooling, but with the fact that they do not establish and have no kindergarten in their territory. I hope that these two proposals will come to your understanding, because I think that, as we have consulted, they have the support of most of you and that it will help to make the law as good as it has been for children's groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Madame. I will give the floor to Mr Juchelek and Mr Čižinský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u18	Hello. I therefore have three amendments, two of which are technical, and the other one is the one that has resonated here in the Chamber of Deputies for several times, and that is the abolition of ceiling payments for parents. The first amendment concerns the replacement of number 3 by number 10, precisely for the time when data are to be stored electronically for the necessary de facto control on the contribution that children's groups will receive. For the purpose of proving the availability of capacity space through electronic log-in or electronic application, I replace it so that contracts concluded by a children's group with parents can only be replaced by an honest declaration from the provider. This is also within the European Union and the European Commission. The second amendment, which I amend there, I will move a month from June 25th to May 25th and October 25th to September 25th, to the payment of advances so that the provider does not incur a greater delay in securing funds for the operation of the nursery from the state contribution, thereby ensuring the continuity of the service provided for the youngest children and maintaining the certainty of parents who need to effectively reconcile their family and working life. And the third amendment concerns, as Mrs Kovářová also mentioned here, the ceiling of payments for parents. Since the nursery works on a non-profit-making principle and in different regions of our Republic the costs of the operation of children's groups may vary, I suggest removing the ceiling of the amount that the parent can pay at the cost of the capacity occupied. I will then sign up for all three amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. And I ask Mr Čižinský for a word, Mr Bauer will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. In order to meet the objective of this law, there is indeed a need to adopt amendments, otherwise we will take a great risk. I would therefore like to read several amendments by my colleague, Pavla Golasowská. It is Amendment 7200, which removes the ceiling of the allowance for parents and at the same time extends the period that will be recognised by the nanny's qualifications for children. House documents 7820 and 7821 modify the age restrictions for placing children in the nursery. And House Document 7804 allows the parent to benefit from a tax discount for placing the child not only in a child care facility operated in business, but also in other ways, especially not in a nonprofit way through registered institutions and associations. I would also like to mention and justify three of my amendments. House document 7817, where I propose age restrictions for placing children in nursery for four years of age. It is a kind of compromise between what the Ministry promotes and what I think would be best, that is to leave it without restrictions. It is also House document 7833, it is an amendment to the amendment by Mrs Kovářová, who would extend this abolition of the age limit for small municipalities to all municipalities, because even larger municipalities are dealing with ad hoc situations where they are unable to provide for child care, and this amendment would give them the flexibility they need. And House document 7824 repeals disproportionately high lighting requirements regarding small children's groups. This is indeed a very important amendment, because if we approve it badly, we will really abolish those children's groups because they will not be able to meet those requirements. Hygiene is only able to control requirements under the decree - and what about requirements that children's groups will not be able to meet? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, too. Mr Bauer is next and Mrs Richterová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u22	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to repeat briefly here at second reading the opinion of the Citizen's Democratic Party MEP and, at the same time, expressed my sadness that unfortunately, and unfortunately, the discussion of the children's group law is going exactly as we predicted, as I had even predicted. [[15.10 hours]] The ODS did not agree with the government proposal from the very beginning. It is also true to say that we were the only ones who made a motion for rejection. We considered it a mistake to allow this bill to continue in the legislative process. We have not seen and see no reason to interfere with the setting of children's groups according to the original law, which, in our view and in my opinion, is functional. He established rules according to which children's groups functioned completely without problems and to the satisfaction of parents and children. In our opinion, all the government had to do was to continue funding them after European funds could not be used. This was the main task of this government and the Minister. That is why we wanted to return this proposal to the government and clearly set the limits to stop sticking our noses in things that work, and to resolve only the urgent financing problem. Unfortunately, we did not receive your support for this in the vote. And so today we have a law on the table that the Social Policy Committee has recommended to approve in the submitted text, and on which many amendments, which are partly overlapped or conflicted, have to be seen by all of you. I do not want to throw down the work of their authors, my colleagues in the Committee on Social Policy, but also the others, but we all know that this does not contribute at all to the purity and clarity of the legislative process and the predictability of the final text. Of course, we are prepared to support some changes that will at least partially restore their original character to children's groups. But I really cannot rejoice at the fact that the upper age limit of children in the nursery could be shifted from three to four years, when older children could still be in the children's groups. For many families, this means that they will no longer be able to send their children of different ages to one place, but they will have to deal with the transfer of an older child to another facility. It's just one little example for all of us. We simply think that no matter how cosmetic interventions can be regulated by the law, it will still mean the elimination of one of the alternatives to the kindergarten that parents liked in the Czech Republic, and this alternative is now taken from them by the state or trying to take from them. For these reasons, we will not participate in the competition for the best amendment with one well-founded exception, and that is the question of setting the maximum amount of remuneration with which the Government proposal comes and which the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Jana Maláčová, is trying to pass on as measures to help families. The opposite is true. Children's groups are by their very nature non-profit groups. This follows from the law today. The setting of limits will achieve a single one, namely that children's groups will shut down in large cities, because under new conditions they will not use their operating costs. Therefore, and for this reason, I have taken the liberty of making an amendment, which is registered under number 7224 in the system, and I will sign up for this amendment in the context of a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mrs Richterová, who is enrolled in the debate, and Mr Růžička will be prepared. Can you please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. With regard to this amendment of the Act, which was originally called the Child Services Act in the children's group and which is to be renamed, according to the Minister's will, to provide care in the nursery, which I do not agree with, this law has to do with how kindergartens, professional qualifications work and how the financing of the operating costs of care facilities works in our country. A number of things have already been discussed by the previous speakers, but I still find it important to summarize how connected it is and how important it is. The operation of kindergartens is one of the big arguments for lawmakers to change the current functional system. And the point is that our current kindergartens lack caregivers for younger children. There's so-called missing. babysitters, people who would give extra attention to two-year-olds. Why? 'Cause they got caught up in funding. And it means that where there is a place in kindergartens, they open it to children under three years of age, they welcome them to fill their capacity, and they handle it mostly. But once the capacity is filled, it is not possible to manage in kindergartens as they are today, not only those two-year-olds, but also those three-year-olds who still need much more individual support. Why am I stressing this? Because children's groups are a way, a tool, in that system, to provide the care for children who need a greater number of carers. This means that in children's groups there are very strict limits on how many adults care about how many children. And now for the change. When a child who has special needs today may be difficult to tolerate changes or, as at the end of a diagnosis, is needed, so when it is evaluated together, most of the time the teacher in the children's groups is dealing with it, the child does not go to kindergarten, but stays in the children's group for longer while it suits him. And there are children who need it even after completing not only third birthdays, but also fourth birthdays, just children aren't from one form, each is different. And today, we have a system that allows us to take the difference into account. It's probably no secret that it's because the participation, the contribution of parents in children's groups is bigger, so parents want kindergarten anyway, and when possible, they like to put their children in kindergartens, they're just cheaper. And we'll get to the funding, in a minute. But at the same time, when the baby is really special in some way, it often stays in the children's group today, if it's used to there and it's good there, longer. A similar situation is logistics. When you have an older and younger sibling and maybe the younger one is a two-year-old and you need to drive a four-year-old and a two-year-old into one place, it's also convenient for you to leave higher fees for both parents and the four-year-old in the same child group. Losing time and losing the habit of these siblings is much more unpleasant to you than losing money. This outlines the different life situations that the proposal submitted by the Ministry and is negotiated with the government party YES does not take into account. So what many of these amendments propose, not only to my colleagues but also to my colleagues, is to change the age limit, so that parents have the choice in these situations of life, so that they have the chance to decide for themselves what is more appropriate for their children, so that children have the chance to proceed individually as is appropriate for them. And there will be an objection. And unfortunately, the Minister of Education is not here to listen to her and to answer that question. It will be, but it is unjust. Teachers in kindergarten are often more in charge of children, and those contributions from the state to children in kindergarten are smaller. But - and we should be clear here and that's why I'm talking to the justification here - yet when they have a very difficult situation in kindergarten today to ensure sufficient care for those little children, those who are not yet completely independent and need extra attention, when the situation is not good there today, it is not an argument to narrow down the support of the children's groups that work because there was enough money at the beginning. [[15.20 hours]] So if the Minister of Education were here, I'd ask him two questions. If he fights for extra support in kindergartens, extra consideration is given to the fact that care for three-year-olds is on average significantly more demanding than care for children maybe five-year-olds. That's an incredible difference in independence. And that, in short, the state's standard for caring for those children of three and four years should take into account the difficulty of making smaller groups worthwhile for kindergartens, for them to be led by the Ministry's methodological guidelines, and thus for the children to be given the quality that then leads to a successful functioning in society. Because a good kindergarten can do so much. A good kindergarten is really great help for parents and eventually it often turns out to be for society as well. But such a promise of funding just doesn't come from the Minister of Education here, because he's not here, there won't be a statement because, unfortunately, preschools are not a priority for the Ministry of Education. Nor will there be any comment as to whether the Ministry of Education will register children's groups that will want and meet the requirements and want to register as a kindergarten. This is another consequence of the proposal, the amendment, that most likely a number of children's groups face the uncertainty that they have now faced over the past few months, but have been facing for years, will say that they would rather go into the kindergarten system. And where I'm wondering if the Ministry of Education is going to restrict the access to the network because it turns out that wherever those places of care are available, they're going to take over. And once they're available and there are smaller groups, people put their two-year-olds in kindergarten regardless of the region. So here it was the second thing that I was interested in, I'm obviously going to have to send it to the minister in writing. However, it is again a matter where, unfortunately, the amendment introduces an unfortunate change, a change that is not for the benefit, but restricts choice. Limiting the choice for parents is one thing, but it also restricts the ability to provide child care services flexibly in smaller municipalities. This has already been discussed by Mrs Kovářová, I will just stress that this also reduces the flexibility of corporate children's groups. I'm gonna tell you again that you have a four-year-old and a two-year-old child. When you have an employer who is enlightened, he set up a children's group that de facto meets the parameters, meets the demands that are placed on the kindergarten, so today you have a slightly larger contribution, and so you can provide the quality care. You don't have enough children for one caring person, one teacher. And what happens now? Two things. Either the employers decide the children's group at their business, at their firm, or it's at the Academy of Sciences, at a lot of ministries, or even for soldiers, when they move across the Republic, so are flexible children's groups also solutions. When kindergartens sign up for kids in the spring and you just have to start in September, when you're moving in, like, with a job, then how are you supposed to do it? It's all being handled by children's groups today, overcoming care, such an emergency. And the employer, according to the proposal submitted by the Minister, will have two options. So it will either change, become a kindergarten, and it will receive a significantly lower contribution to those children today, and it will have to significantly reduce the quality of the services provided. He won't just have enough money to pay enough carers as they used to in the children's group, unfortunately. And the second thing that can happen is that it will remain a children's group, it will rely on the Minister's words that there will be sufficient state contribution. Yeah, but with the fourth birthday blow, the baby becomes unfit, he must not continue to do what was originally supposed to be a flexible tool, permeable, allowing, in fact, to adapt to the needs of parents and children, and the child will have to be taken somewhere else by the parent. So in a situation of two or three siblings, it's completely stupid. And again, those children's groups around the world act as a complementary tool, but that's why they're diverse. It's not supposed to be the only system option, but it's also not supposed to be an option that's this hard to limit. That is why there are so many amendments, and that is why I am arguing here, so that we all realise that it is simply not a small thing to limit such unnecessary conditions for the care of young children. And to the financial arguments, one general one. Once care for young children is sufficiently available, the employment of parents of young children increases, and it is solely due to the fact that the parents of young children are employed, the money will be returned to the state. So it's not a debate at all about what we have and what we don't have. This is just an example of public policy where it's a win-win, where it's a win-win. So one more time. The government coalition is proposing to put an age on the line without being justified without saying why the system today does not work. He suits, suits children, suits parents, suits those founders, and the only person who may not be satisfied is the Ministry of Education. And that's something I really can't accept. Next thing. As far as parental contributions are concerned, it is perfectly okay to try to ensure the highest possible national contributions, since, in turn, care for young children is to be made available to all social groups and to show how much society values parenting and parents. But there is no way to jeopardize the existence of many children's groups by actually abolishing the freedom to provide them in larger cities, where they are simply more expensive rents and often harder to get qualified staff, so you need to pay slightly higher wages. And that, unfortunately, is a threat to the way the contributions are designed. I understand that there will be an effort to negotiate as much as possible. But again, the question I'm asking myself, which I'd like the Secretary here to answer, is how she's going to guarantee us, and what objective she's going to have in terms of what the state contribution and roughly parental contribution should be to the children's group. And once again, the ministry has a lot of research on the costs of running children's groups, it has research that takes into account the very differences in both personnel costs and other operating costs and then investment costs, all of this has to be counted into. And the investments, that's another thing. It is often said that kindergartens come out with little, but in fact, in kindergartens, investment costs are very often not included in the costs, they are argued only by the salaries and basic operations. This is just to say that this debate shows again that it is not linked and shown; that here in the children's groups we support something that in our flexibility, in the fact that it can quickly arise and quickly disappear, reduces the total investment costs that the state otherwise spends in this case on the care of young children. I will now present those amendments that we often make with colleagues. [[15.30 hours]] It's draft number 7261 regarding the name of the nursery. I suggest we leave the original name to the children's group. Why? Because it is a name experienced, it is a name whose change would bring unnecessary costs for both the founder and the state. I have evidence that it costs about 50 grand per child group to transform purely those names, those names. And as for the title here, yes, there are some children's groups that have left in their names something like cribs, etc. Let them have it, of course, but let it be their choice. For proboha's sake, why do we have to Communistly dictate this? So I really don't understand why you don't leave it where they want children's groups, where they have it like a nursery. The original title of the Child Services Act in the children's group is perfectly correct and, by the way, it is descriptive. It just makes it clear what's going on. Another amendment - number 7262. That's the age of children. As I have explained in detail here, I consider it completely unfounded that the Ministry is introducing the age limit. I would suggest leaving the possibility of regular child care in the children's group until compulsory schooling. I will also support the amendment to compromise on compulsory pre-school education, but frankly I do not understand at all why to limit it by the third year of age. The submitted proposal envisages that at three years of age, the child goes to kindergarten. But, in fact, the argument then refers to the obligation of municipalities to have sufficient capacity for kindergartens, but that is not reality. And again. How, Madam Secretary, do you deal with the fact that municipalities simply cannot live up to their responsibilities anywhere? There are simply municipalities where it is not worth building a kindergarten. Sometimes there's a group, sometimes it's not, and that's why they're ideal for the children's groups. This, in turn, is being followed by some amendments and I hope that they will receive support. At that age, I say again, the practicality of bringing children into the facility is an argument why not put a fixed age limit. I've already explained that the child allowance in kindergarten is still considerably lower, so parents will do well to calculate whether they want to put the child in kindergarten or continue to be in the children's group. But if it's really hard for them to drive him somewhere else to kindergarten, then why not let them take care of the children's group? From the point of view of the state budget, only the amount of one child's subsidy should be relevant, not whether the subsidies go to a children's group or to a kindergarten. The proposal that I tried to talk about at the various previous meetings was, let's just let MŠMT and MPSV agree that caring for two- and three-year-olds is more expensive, and they will simply give a higher contribution equal to all these children - no matter in which facility they are this age. I don't know that this Ministry of Education has moved on and would have sought to do so. It should be in his interest. Once again, money invested in the care of young children returns to society. It is one of the basic tools that the state has to make a positive contribution to a good chance for a good start in children from a different disadvantaged environment and at the same time increase the support of parents. By the way, the income of parents, the income of families with children is lower not only than the income of childless families, but also lower per capita than the income of senior households. On that again, I want to show that this really is a fundamental issue of public policy - to provide for the care of young children. And I'm interested in how the Ministry deals with the fact that the introduction of that age limit limits the real availability and functionality of parents. As far as other proposals are concerned, under the number 7265 we have uploaded the cancellation of parental contributions. Why? Because there are just big cities where, unfortunately, that's the only way to keep a certain offer. I also wish we had such high national contributions that the ceiling could be maintained, but unfortunately, I am not sure that this will succeed in doing so to this government, giving it such a priority, and that is why I feel safer to cancel the ceiling. Let me stress again, it has already been said here, it is non-profit organizations that are very closely controlled. There's no way to make any money in any way. Everything's going back into operation, it's strictly controlled on the principle of nonprofit of those children's groups. I'm just afraid that savings will go to the detriment of quality unnecessarily, and it won't be about everyone. In many places, they are struggling with the austerity of finance, and they can do it, but in the biggest cities, it's a real threat. The numbers, how much rents, how much wages are currently worth in larger cities, clearly show this. So without any guarantees that there will be sufficient state contribution, it is not possible to introduce the ceiling. The next thing is Amendment 7266. He deals with both the abolition of the contribution from parents and government regulations. It proposes abolishing the contribution from parents of children who visit a nursery that is not established by the State, self-governing bodies and controlled persons by them, and for others the maximum amount would be the government's regulation. In human terms, for municipalities or other municipalities established by the children's group, the limit would be, for others, not - in the spirit of the state service being somehow more regulated. I think that's justified. It has the catch that these communities established by children's groups are not enough. I am aware of that, but it seems fair to me to say that this is also an opportunity to do so. Finally, Amendment 7245 is tabled. It's about vaccination. In fact, once again, it is guided by efforts to ease the situation in the field for operators and eliminate unnecessary bureaucracy for children's groups. It's actually an opportunity to leave this agenda in the hands of doctors. It is an amendment that proposes to delete the obligation to present evidence of compulsory vaccination directly to the child group, but to actually address it with recommendations in a medical opinion that it recommends or does not recommend the adoption of the child. Why is that? Because today is actually the duty to keep records of a particular child's vaccination, while doctors have the same record. And it makes sense for us to just have one agenda run in one place, there is one clear responsibility, and for doctors to have the opportunity, even after the amendment law that has passed, where the individual state of the child is actually being assessed, and they have the responsibility to decide on the suitability of vaccination given the condition of the child, so that it simply remains up to the doctor and on that opinion: I recommend - I do not recommend admission, and the registration of the vaccination carried out is, moreover, constantly updated in the case of small children. There's still some. So again, once this obligation applies to children's groups for children around the year and a half, two years where the vaccinations are taking place, it's gonna be a terrible mess if the child is allowed or not accepted if he hasn't been vaccinated yet. And it could just be that he had a cold, next time he had a sibling cold, and it was risky to inoculate him that he might get sick, and in the finals, he just went half a year late against some general plan, and it could mean no admission to the children's group. So this amendment would, in our opinion, address this. At the same time, it is important for us to also resolve the pressure that exists on doctors to quickly inoculate young children for the purpose of visiting devices, and it is really necessary to take into account the individual state of the children. So that's Amendment 7245. [[15.40 hours]] And then Amendment 7395. This concerns purely the abolition of hepatitis B vaccination requirements. There's been a consensus in this House once that this is something we don't need, which we can really leave out. Except that it was together with another thing, so it was rejected then in the legislative process. But, overall, there has already been a technical discussion here that children who are not vaccinated against hepatitis B are not at risk for the school team, it is a disease that is transmitted - I stress - either by blood or sexual intercourse, so as in kindergarten children, these two things need not be dealt with. It's just extraordinary that we have this obligation. And there are still cases of parents who used pentavacel to vaccinate their children, where hepatitis B was missing, and they have a problem with admission to the facility. That would be how this Amendment 7395 would be dealt with. And then there is the possibility described in Amendment 7264 - to allow children's groups to use funds in a way that corresponds to the individual needs of individual organisations, but there I am merely expressing my support for this amendment, just as I am expressing my support for proposal 7209, which relates to the promotion of actually qualifications, professional competence, in such a way as to take into account reality, in order to take account of the fact that today in children's groups, for example, people who are qualified as a teacher at a kindergarten or as a primary school teacher or as an assistant teacher often work for example, and I find it good not to force these people to do other qualifications. This will represent more, I suppose, a colleague of the lead promoter. I just want to stress that this proposal does not take into account - in this draft by the Ministry and the coalition, but also by KSČM and Mrs Aulická - it does not take into account that it is really incredibly difficult to do those retraining courses for all children's groups throughout the country. Unfortunately, it happened here that, actually, if I read the situation correctly, my colleague Aulická and my colleague Pastuchová, who unfortunately has a covid and can not be here today, they have advocated the requalification of everyone but the paramedics for the care of smaller children. And there's not so much that these people couldn't do it, but the point is that you're going to have to organize for those thousands of workers in the children's groups actually over a short period of time the training for the overactivity, so they've already done it, even the medical courses, but again, I don't mind that they're actually going to go back to training in some medical aspects of care, that's okay. But it really doesn't seem necessary to me that, even after they've already had to go through, when they're working in the children's groups, the exam, the qualification level of the babysitter in the children's group, in order to get an eight-hour training, which would have been O.K. again, they'd have to add the completion of the qualification to the next exam, the nanny in the nursery, which is another eight hours, which is more eligible for examiner staff and other absences at work. And when it counts throughout the Republic, I think that what makes sense is to strengthen the continuous education of those people who have the qualifications of a educator for a kindergarten, a educator for a first degree or an assistant teacher, that's totally okay, but it doesn't make sense to me all these people in a short period of time to force them to take another course just to have the paper. Education is, but the certification that's going to be administratively and staffically demanding is what I'm up against here. That was quite a comment. In part, I think that this is a really good solution to Amendment 7209, and as I think you've all seen, I care very much about this law. I think that the children's groups have proven themselves to be a good part, as a flexible support for parents, children and ultimately a functional part of the whole society, and I would like them to retain this flexibility and freedom. This will allow certain amendments, which is why I strongly appeal here to give them the attention they deserve. Perhaps it is not that it does not make any sense because opposition parties may present it. There's a point. Please follow the Children's Group Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u25	Well, have a good afternoon. Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Pavel Růžička, will be prepared. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Mr President, I will do my best, in any case I am still enrolled in the classic debate, if I say so. I would only like to respond by means of you to the colleague who spoke before me. I must say that I am very sorry that the concept of this is actually being seduced now, or at all the personnel, the change that is proposed, is more or less being blamed on me and my colleague Pastuchová. I just might point out that it might not be appropriate to say a diagnosis of our colleagues and colleagues here, that is one thing. And as for the education, when we talked about the law in the narrower group, it is true for us that we wanted there to be always one or two people in the children's groups who would really have the health education, or some quality course that would be certified, because it's work with children. We're having fun today that it's from one year to the next, this bill that actually goes from six months to the next, although, of course, we can honestly say that it's only a few children that are six months old, more or less it's usually from two to three years old or four, but in any case, we perceive that this care should always be primarily qualified and quality, and that's why we wanted this staff there in the concept of at least two people who would ensure that. The fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came up with this complex change was more or less not our demands. That's why I'd just like to say that real things are really going in here, just the way they really are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u27	Now Mrs Olga Richterová will also respond to the factual remark. Before that, I don't have any more applications for a factual remark. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u28	I apologize to Mrs Pastuchová, absent, and thank you for your warning. Thank you for that. That was my fault. About that - I'm really sorry, I guess I didn't realize it - about the substance, it's about the fact that there's just a cover-up between what's a new module and what's a new qualification. So I would ask the Minister to explain the need, because I really, again say I didn't contradict the education, whether it's one day or two days, that would still be possible, but as far as the exam is concerned, it's three days, and it's also a work absence that will just cause outages in providing care. So once again, I'm asking the secretary if the exam would just be the module - and again, it's okay that it's supposed to be with a certified provider, absolutely fine, but I don't think it's unnecessarily built like the whole new qualification. And I apologize once again to the conclusion, it really was a mistake, and I'm sorry, miss missus absent. If the secretary answers, I'd be very happy. I don't think it's a trifle, it's just going to cover thousands of hours, the final exam would cost 5,000 crowns a day for about one participant. They're also state costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u29	Now, with priority right, President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, Mr Pavel Růžička will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u30	Good afternoon, I'll try to be brief and factual. I have to say that on this story, which Minister Maláčová here described as a great proposal by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will just come and make a cool move on the issue of children's groups and so on, so in practice it means a year and a half insecurity here. A year and a half of the fact that people who are involved in children's groups started to run them, they did the cover of blind spots on a map that was unable to cover the state, so they did it, including companies, institutions, and here comes the proposal by the Minister, who simply brought about a huge degree of uncertainty. These people spend a huge amount of time, trying to contact us by the legislator, looking for support to take these steps, which would lead to dramatic restrictions on children's groups in those factual parameters, would lead to an increase in the costs that parents pay for their children's pre-school attendance today, rather than simply saying: let's go to a system that works well, let's give him evolution, let's make it better, let's just make all the good things that are there that bring benefits to families, parents, but also to companies, institutions, so here we go the way that we just--- we bomb it, we create a period of uncertainty. People put a lot of energy into it, they call us, and we explain to them that we're just going to slow it down here in second, third reading, we're going to straighten it out. So I'm sorry that this whole debate wasn't at the beginning, it wasn't more rational, and that the MPSV had this emergency that was announced in dozens, hundreds of people who dealt with the issue, that you could have forgiven the whole thing. I believe the sněmovna here will see reason. We, as KDU-ČSL, have here proposals that clearly aim to preserve, hold, support children's groups, support parents, families with children, so that the system, which has been set up here for years, so that quality care is available, so that it also works here, so that these experiments, with which the Minister comes, do not repeat themselves. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u31	So now two factual points. First Mr Marek Výborný and then Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be prepared. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Vice-President, Madam Secretary, I would still like to respond to the long contribution by you to Mrs Richterová. I'd like to thank her, because I think the things here have been quite clear. At the same time, before the third reading, please take a close look at the number of amendments from KDU-ČSL by my colleague Pavla Golasowská, as my colleague Jan Čižinský has already mentioned. We're standing here in a situation where if we want to keep the children's groups and their funding, we just can't go the way that would seem rational, and the law simply doesn't. But unfortunately, as he was written by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, so from my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, that is typical and classic social engineering. Nothing else. I don't understand why there shouldn't be a free choice for those parents. Why do we want to somehow eliminate children's groups here, whether through funding or age limits? Why is there a completely absurd system where mommy, when she's going to be at home as a babysitter to take care of the smallest children, and if she has her own, she doesn't get a public contribution, whereas the rest of them do? There are so many discriminatory things that attack families, parents who actually destroy the system that arose here after 2014 within the children's groups. And if you look at the dozens of statements made by children's groups, working children's groups, they have two concerns. One of the fact that the law, if it were adopted without the amendments, will cause the children's groups to be liquidated, and I'm not talking about the completely senseless renaming to a nursery. Yeah, we're going back deep, deep back. But it's just a concept. Of course, there are some costs involved and so on, but it's just a concept. But what is a problem is that it will have an impact on the care of the children as such and on the possibility of actually finding an institution, a facility that would have that preschool... [[Time.]] [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you. I'm just gonna finish the last sentence... [[Mr. Congressman, time, please.]] ...that would finish the preschool education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u33	Mr. Ambassador, time. I do not want anyone - you know that I leave one sentence, two sentences, but then other Members could protest. I am a benevolence alone. So, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková, then Mrs Věra Kovářová, in fact, and then Minister Maláčová reports with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u34	Hello, Mr President, colleagues, Madam Secretary. I'm sure we can agree that we all care about children, families with children, so that families can choose their own way of taking care of children, how to combine caring for children with solving their career paths. But I have to respond to my colleague, Jurečka, to the statement that this is the way a hole is patched up. Well, the hole was created in the '90s, and it was pushed especially by KDU-ČSL, but also by other right-wing parties, when they simply canceled the nursery, without compensation. In 2014, children's groups were created as patching up the hole, as a solution that was simply necessary for mothers and children to have child care provided and to reconcile their career careers with family care. Today's bill that we are discussing is the tightening up, the systemic implementation of this whole thing, the reconciliation of family and working life and, above all, the care of those young children. But I'm sure Minister Maláčová will ask for that. I really just wanted to turn against doing something amateur or social engineering. We do what our children and our families need to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u35	So now Mrs Gajdůškovášková's speech has brought down a number of factual points. I'll just read it because it won't work out on the screen so you can get ready. So, as the first Mrs Věra Kovářová, then Mrs Jana Černochová, Member Olga Richterová and Member Jan Čižinský, still factual points. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u36	I don't want to go back to the past, I want to look into the future. I just need to remind you why children's groups were formed. Yes, reconciliation of family and working life was one reason. But it was also because of the lack of capacity of kindergarten schools and the inability to set up a kindergarten in that very small village. As for that age, I might want to stand up for Secretary Maláčová here, because I think it wasn't the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that would absolutely insist that there must be children there only within three years in the nursery, but that it was the Ministry of Education. And here I would like to point out that if the age is as limited as it is, and the Ministry of Education does not essentially allow an increase in this age, then we must make it clear that the Ministry of Education must give a significant boost to the construction of kindergarten schools so that they are available to all, for all parents. Otherwise, there will be a group of parents who will have nowhere to put their child. So much for defending the Minister, but I think that Minister Plaga should clearly say that the Ministry of Education has already put billions in kindergarten schools - yes, that is true, but billions are still missing. And I would like to know his opinion on how the Ministry of Education will support the construction of new kindergartens, so that a place is available for everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u37	Now, Mrs Jana Černochová will speak and Mrs Olga Richterová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must say that I have such a little déjà vu, because I was here with my colleague Gajdůšková, through you, some year and a half ago, maybe two years ago, when I strongly opposed the fact that the nursery was cancelled and that it was the people's fault. I've been in municipal politics for 23 years, I've been mayor of Prague 2 for years and we even have two nurserys. We set them up at the other address. We also have a children's group below them to be variable so that, just as my colleague Richterová said, parents could choose. So I strongly object to Mrs Gajdůškovášková's constant claim that the nursery is being disturbed without compensation. It's not true. We never canceled the nursery, we run it, we pay it, we have two nurserys, and we never wanted to disturb them. [[16.00 hours]] The fact that legislation was changing must have been in a different regime than some - I don't know if it was '98, '99 - that's another thing. But we just found a way to keep running them. 'Cause who am I to dictate to someone here whether to put kids in day care or not? No, I'm a municipal politician who's supposed to make sure that parents have more options, that they have different alternatives, because if someone really wants to work, they can put the baby in the nursery. And I would like to assure my colleague Gajdůškovášková by means of you that we even have a happy day care operation even at a time when we sometimes had a coalition with KDU-ČSL in the past. So please do not take KDU-ČSL or ODS into your mouth at all times. We run, we hold, and we think that's the right way. [[Time warning.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u39	Mrs Olga Richterová will now appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will be ready and then Mrs Hana Aulická will be ready. Madam, please, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u40	I want to respond to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's words on so-called social engineering. I think it's good to realize that everything we do around children's groups, about basically everything we accept here, we do, somehow interfere with society. And with the whole speech to the children's groups, I tried to explain how we could intervene in a way as little as possible, giving as much freedom as possible to what is simply desirable. So parents can choose whether they want to take care of the baby or whether they want to stay home clean for longer. To give them this freedom of choice. I consider it completely irresponsible, if that's what it was meant, to say that it can just try to close some children's groups, because because of how the new parameters will be set, they won't be operational. That's why I also asked about the position of the Ministry of Education, and whether he would register really without any obstructions for those who would meet the conditions in that kindergarten register. And once again, what we approve here simply interferes with society, affects its functioning. That is why we need to realise that if we do not approve of the amendment removing the age-trend, we will cause - you know what, colleagues? That the couple of parents who are taking their two kids to a children's group today, two and four years old, then they're going to drive one somewhere else and the other somewhere else. There's a possibility that the facilities will be created next to each other, or that everything will be registered as a kindergarten, but it's not at all certain. And what I want to have here after this debate is to make sure that we don't interfere with those parents' lives in such an unpleasant way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u41	Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear and prepare himself - we are still in factual remarks - Mrs Hana Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to reject Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's efforts here to bring in some ideological contradiction. I think that we are all aware of this here and we all have the same opinion that parents are responsible for raising, caring and training children and that parents are supposed to have choices. And the choice is that we're going to prepare those capacities. We don't want to force anyone to do anything, but we don't want to force anyone by not being the capacity. And - I'm terribly sorry, but I think my colleague has already left - but we're here discussing a law that is simply absolute chaos. Instead of the Minister of Education sitting here, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, they put together what makes sense, there's something here that we don't know what it's gonna look like. Let me give you an example. There's no way to judge the lighting in those little children's groups. If under the decree, we'll cut the little children's groups off. At this point, the children's groups are failing because the aid is clearly insufficient. They don't have anything to pay wages and rent from. What do people who have little money need? They need to work. And by putting those children's groups at risk here, we're endangering the incomes of those people in distress, they're gonna need to work, they're gonna have to take care of their kids at home, because those children's groups are gonna die. It's a process we can't control here. But there should be all three ministers here and together to present a solution that will allow all children's groups to survive, to actually build enough capacity so that there is not a disaster that will be enhanced by the fact that many parents will want to delay their children because of the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u43	Mrs Hana Aulická, then Mrs Věra Kovářová, then Mrs Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, Mr President. To my previous speaker. Don't be mad at me, but this is a demagogy and it's already a campaign. None of the sides sitting here want the children's groups to be canceled. On the contrary, we think that the amendments that we have been communicating here - for example, Mrs Kovářová, who introduced this - we will also vote in favour because we think it has a head and a heel. And now we're just doing an election campaign. Don't be mad at me, but that's just how I see it. And I think these people are waiting for us to adopt some kind of functional solution, and not to throw around who wants to deal with what and who doesn't do anything for it. And a colleague from ODS. Well, whether you like it or not, I understand that the nursery has been preserved somewhere. We also have three nurserys in Most, we're proud of it. But you can't deny that in the '90s, the nursery was simply destroyed and disturbed. And all of a sudden, because the function or the payment of parents changed, suddenly the parents found that when they needed to go to work, because they wouldn't take any more funding for the baby, suddenly the kids had nowhere to put, because kindergarten schools just took from three years of age and higher, and they hadn't even had the capacity to do it since then. We did not like children's groups in the form they were adopted in 2014. We wanted a different solution, we wanted a much better qualification requirements and other things that the state would just guarantee because they are the smallest children. And don't be mad at me, the fact that we're actually dealing with the fact that we're putting up that age, that's exactly what I think is right. Not to mention, we're allowing those operators and the founders to actually set up the Jeselian classes or the children's groups at the kindergartens. And it's the argument that Mrs. Richterová said here, that's why these kids are actually going to pass fluently into that kindergarten, and at the same time they're still going to be in the same subject, or in the same facility, and it doesn't have to happen that parents are going to be moving their children somewhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u45	She will now speak to Mrs Věra Kovářová and then to Minister Jana Maláčová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u46	I would still respond to the question of where to go with them. If, then, the Ministry of Education, which basically prevented the age limit from increasing in children's groups, has an overview of where they will go, which kindergarten, and if they have a place at some normal distance from home, children who will not be able to continue to visit the children's group, i.e. a nursery. And I think that the Ministry of Education should make it clear why, in some cases, it is not possible to really increase that age even for a transitional period until there is sufficient capacity in kindergarten schools. It is true that it is very regionally different. In Prague, in large cities, in the vicinity of large cities there is a huge overpressure, there are children's groups working there, there are small private kindergartens working there and they are all filled, you will not find a vacancy there. Then there are smaller municipalities, where the mayor basically goes around, as someone told me, with a gift basket, so that the children have applied since they were two years old to finance the kindergarten. So if anyone is talking about the whole Czech Republic, then we have to realize that the differences are huge. That is why I would like to hear from the Ministry of Education - if perhaps the Minister could do something about it - about how the place at the kindergarten will be provided for these children and how the Ministry of Education will support the construction of kindergartens where there is insufficient capacity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u47	Now, Minister Jana Maláčová. You applied with priority rights, so I'll give you priority rights, and you're not limited to two minutes. I'm sure you have a lot on your mind, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. I am generally very pleased that the proposal for children's groups, or the nursery, is so passionate, but I would ask you, honourable Members, not to confuse it with the fifth over the ninth, because as I am watching the debate, it is really happening. Nobody here wants to destroy children's groups. I would remind you that unlike most of you, I stood at the birth of a children's group, I had my own child in a children's group, and it helped me reconcile work and family. On the contrary, I want to take and develop the good from the children's groups and improve it so that we have this quality service for all families, because today - and I appeal especially to Mr Čižinský and Mrs Richterová - today children's groups are elite kindergartens. It's an elite kindergarten where there's an average of five six thousand. This is something an ordinary working family cannot afford, not all of them have a Member's salary, and five to six thousand, especially if you have two children, so that's a deadly amount. So we're the good that worked, we're taking it and developing it, we're introducing state funding, we're increasing the quality of the service, and we're limiting the parents' contribution to make it available to every working family, not just to the upper middle class. And one more thing. I have mentioned here about ten times in various introductory words, we have managed to obtain from the National Recovery Plan - and it will still have to be consecrated, but we have a consensus on this - three to five billion crowns for investments in the construction of nursery. This means huge investments for municipalities so that they can build a nursery for each kindergarten. This means that the question that families are going to deliver children on different facilities is not correct because of the age cropping, because we expect the municipalities to seize these investments - and we are talking about three, maybe even five billion crowns, and they will build a nursery at every kindergarten. This means that children under the age of three will be in a nursery and from the age of three they will be in a kindergarten. It's gonna be covered, it's gonna be a high-quality service available, and everyone's gonna be happy. That's the target. We don't want elite kindergartens. I'm just reminding you that over the past seven years, the children's groups have helped, they've actually pulled the thorn out of our heels, but in the last seven years, they've cost us eight billion, and each fourth child's group costs more than CZK 5,000 for fees. In Prague, an average of CZK 6,000. Even a friend recently asked me why he doesn't have a second child in a children's group - why don't you have a second child in a children's group? You know what he told me? If there's 10,000 fees, you do the math, two kids, 20,000. Like who can afford it? Even if we give a state contribution or a contribution from European funds of 9,800 per child. That means no one wants to take them out. What's missing from my parents' contributions is worth it. But we also have to make sure the children's groups are saved. So they don't pay overpriced rents so they don't pay too much. Overpriced managers and stuff. We want an affordable service for working families with children, which will cost normal amounts, as well as in kindergartens, and not a fortune. This isn't supposed to be a luxury thing for the upper middle class. It's supposed to be support for working families, because it pays off to the state, and because it raises birth rates, because it makes families happier and they don't get divorced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u49	So now two factual points. So Mrs Olga Richterová will be the first to speak and Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your response. Because I've been approached, I'll still respond. Madam Secretary said: take it and develop it. And here's my question. Then why are you putting that ceiling on your age? I say it again, like I said during the speech, that I understand the effort to get as much public contribution as possible to cover as much of those costs as possible by the state. I also explained that it would come back on taxes. It is budgetaryly neutral when other countries do so, how they are paid to care for young children. But - when you said good to take and develop, I consider it perfectly logical to adjust the funding so that it is sustainable, simply because it is beneficial for society as a whole and good for those families to put in the higher state contribution. Again, I was saying that I just miss the reason that you, Madam Secretary, advocated to keep existing sufficiently widely covered children's groups in large cities where the costs are higher, but I don't understand why you're introducing a ceiling of that age. And I don't understand it because it's unwarranted that it's not just being told what it's gonna do to those families and those people. That's what I don't understand. Officially, it will look structured, it looks like a box, but it doesn't make the practical normal sense for me. That's my objection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u51	So now, with a factual remark, Mr Jan Čižinský. [[This is Secretary Maláčová.]] And de facto, huh? And Minister Jana Maláčová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. Actually, I'd like to ask for some data. I would like to ask for data on the availability of kindergartens and care for children under the age of three. As far as I know, this data is not available. It would certainly be a good idea for them to be available before the third reading, so that we know where the capacity is missing. I am indeed in favour of the greatest possible capacity, the most affordable capacity. So please don't give me any credit, or anyone here who hasn't said it, that we would be against the availability, that someone here would be defending any high costs for parents, really, that's not what I'm defending. But when I hear that there's a nursery next to every kindergarten, I have to say, unfortunately, it's naive. Just in the big cities next to kindergarten, there's not gonna be any kindergarten, because it's just not technically possible. So, in addition to the analysis where the capacity is lacking, I would like to have how the money will be distributed, how, how they will be sent to which areas, so that we really know if it will work. I believe that without this analysis and without knowing how the money to build up the capacities of the nursery and the children's groups will be sent, it is not possible to approve the law responsibly. And if anyone is saying that I am being overly shy here, I would ask either a colleague of Mrs Aulická Jírovcová or a minister, through Mr President, to tell me what the hygienist will judge when he comes there. What he'll judge. I'm not freaking out here for nothing. Because no one can come here and say "I know what he will judge," but unfortunately it is likely that he will judge compliance with the decree, which will mean that we will lose the capacity. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u53	So now, Minister Jana Maláčová, on a point of fact. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Why split up in three years. It's not in three years, that's what you have to say. Until August after her third birthday. This is supposed to be the new age for nursery and kindergarten since 2024. And the reason is simple. Within three years children should be in nursery and from three years of age in kindergartens, because this is an internationally recognized system that from three years of age children should be in the educational system, because it is very good for the future of children and for equalizing social inequalities when children from three years of age are already in an educational institution where they prepare for school life. So that's why the clearly understandable system. It's not a novelty, it's a thing that works in Germany, Holland, France, in all Scandinavian countries, where we saw it. I think these are the countries that set an example for us, and we're going that way. Within three years of a nursery, quality, intensive care, six children for a caring person, if there is a child under one year of age, a maximum of four children for one caring person. From the age of three, a kindergarten where children are educated and prepared for school life, if I say so myself. As for Mr Čižinský's question. Ambassador, you were sitting with my colleagues last week. All information you request is available on the website of the Ministry of Education, respectively. You got them from us. So I can send them again, I can read them here, I didn't do it because I wanted to shorten the time of the performance here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u55	So now two factual points. Once again, Mrs Olga Richterová, and Mr Jan Čižinský will be prepared. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u56	I'm sorry, I can't do that! Madam Secretary, you argue here again with labels, but in practice they educate children's groups, only they must not call it that. They have to pretend that they only provide so-called. education, but I think it's because parents have higher contributions, higher participation, so they do what it looks like, and there's just a lot of education going on there as in kindergartens. So it seems important to me not to make an argument here again with the labels, what looks terribly well painted on paper, but to think that the practical aspects prevail that in practice you don't often know what kindergarten is and what is a children's group in that day-to-day traffic, in the normal functioning of a party of children with those teachers, other than the fact that there are more staff than the fact that there is enough finance, so those little children have enough educators to each other. And if I can still quote my good friend, my kindergarten teacher, it's because there's not enough staff, not enough educators, they often can't do teaching, education, and often it just slides down to babysitting. And that's just because there's sometimes lack of staff. So I just want to point out that I think it's a mistake to say that this is the difference between kindergarten and children's groups. In those children's groups I know, education is normal, and those people are qualified for it. And I don't think labels are supposed to be what determines the whole system. I'm asking for a little penetration. I don't think the penetration would have been used in mass anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u57	Mr Jan Čižinský will now make a point of fact and Mrs Hana Aulická will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u58	I didn't really do it for a while. I confirm that we have dealt with the secretary and her deputy. But I have to say, when it's presented here that everything has been explained to me, and I'm completely overreacting here, it's completely the opposite. On the basis of the very information, I have written two other amendments, because I have simply found that this is even more serious than I thought. And if that's not the case, then the Minister normally come here and say, yes, in those children's groups or nursery into twelve children, I know exactly what the health inspector will judge in the lighting, because we have such an agreement, it's completely unnecessary what you're proposing, I'm sure it won't be according to the decree - well, it's completely fine. But of course you can't say it here because you don't know. That's the situation. So I don't understand why it's like everything's being answered, everything's going to work, everything's going to be the best when a lot of the proposed measures are some kind of compromise between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They don't even know what's going to happen from the Ministry of Health. So why don't we say yes, it's just a compromise. But why is this place always defending itself with the same words? If we want quality care available, the age limit really doesn't make any sense. If we want to keep the numbers, it should be said that the lighting will not be assessed according to the decree, etc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u59	Now for the last de facto so far, Mrs Hana Aulická, Mr Pavel Růžička will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to, but I had to. By your means, Mr President, to Mrs Richterová. I don't understand what you don't understand. I feel like we're throwing pears and apples together here, and that's about the age of the kids. Because we're actually saying that in children's groups, the law that is now in force is taking away the right to education from children over three years of age. I know they're children's groups, whether you like it or not, where they really have educators, where they work with them the way they should. On the other hand, it is not legislative. And the fact that some children's groups work like that in kindergarten, although they're to be appreciated, they're of good quality, I'm not saying no, on the other hand, it's just not covered by legislation, which means that there are children over three years old who are entitled to the education that would be available at that kindergarten, so they don't get it. And that's just a simple fact, and I don't think we can argue with any of us. And I would like to say that it is precisely because there is an exception from Mrs Kovářová that she would have made it possible for those small municipalities, where they do not have established kindergarten schools, so we think that this exception would make sense. Anyway, on the other hand, really children's groups were originally created because there was a hole for those little kids. And I have to agree with the Minister here that this is supposed to be a six-month-old care, but from one year to three years, and then really children should go into the education system, i.e. the kindergarten system. Nobody's stopping children's groups, they've got three years to transform, and part of it was kindergarten, and part of it was a children's group or a nursery, whatever it's called. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u61	So now he will perform - even factually before I could say it, so well, Mr Jan Čižinský. In the last second, you squeezed. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u62	Really just practically. It sounds like no one's defending the children's group. But that's just not true! There are technical very strict conditions that need to be met. And it just doesn't come out of every apartment, it just doesn't! That means, it's impossible to say: no one's stopping it from transforming! That's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u63	Now a point of fact, Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u64	Another example for you, colleagues and colleagues, to imagine practically - an example of what is hindering is the location on the ground floor. In fact, the number of children is not taken into account there, which would be logical. Because like the risk factor in a fire location on the ground floor, and it needs to be addressed in order to escape if anything happens. But there are other limits when you're a children's group and when you're a kindergarten. And instead of being done for the number of people, it's this given the nature of the device. So it's really, really been a lot of work, it's really not as simple as it's going to be. In turn, it is especially the problem of large cities, especially Prague and Brno, where there are simply not so many suitable objects available. As if the problem of operating, what I know very personally from Prague, is that they are looking for hot areas that are hardly suitable and accessible. And by changing the legislation that's gonna turn it into that kindergarten operation, because those kids' groups here really, really, really often meet those personnel qualifications, so they can't get space again. So we're trapped in this trap that we have some very rigid kindergarten regulations on something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u65	I will now request the speech of Mr Pavel Růžička and Mrs Markéta Pekarová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u66	Mr President, Madam Minister, fellow Members, I would like to comment on my amendment under House press 7604. To point 1. With a view to ensuring the safety of children, it is crucial that fire protection is in order not only for areas where children are primarily present but also for the entire facility in which the child care service is to be provided or provided in the nursery. This is particularly the case, e.g. about permanently free escape routes, the possibility of carrying out safe fire intervention and, of course, functionality, operation of fire safety devices. I'm sure you all know that an intervention in an object where there are small children or seniors is one of the most complex. The narrowing of the application of the fire protection requirement to the premises in which the child care service is to be provided or provided in the nursery is misleading due to the general binding nature of the Fire Protection Act and for the addressees of the standard. The position of the Fire Protection Act and the obligations imposed by it cannot be forgotten and therefore the words "to the premises in which the child care service is to be cancelled or provided in the nursery" are proposed and thus eliminate the contradiction that would occur when applying these standards. [[16.30 hours]] To point 2. This is only a legislative technical amendment to the introductory phrase of the amendment point with regard to the insertion of footnote 20. To point three. The law amendment introduces the institution of the nursery, originally a children's group. From the point of view of fire protection, special rules linked to this institute cannot be found. This is due to the fact that, for example, in some cases, state fire surveillance cannot be carried out and no building law proceedings are conducted. It is therefore necessary that, where it is to be an official document, its requirements should be defined in law in terms of scope or content, respectively, in order to interpret the evidence on the basis of § 16 (1) (a) and (b). Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (b) the proposal required by the addressees of this standard. Technical conditions of fire protection will need to be evaluated in the document primarily by the person who was granted an authorisation for fire safety of buildings. I'm sure we all want to put our children in facilities that are safe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová will now appear and prepare Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u68	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I think this debate has been going on long enough for us to know that there are a number of mines in this bill that need to be removed. It started, the genesis here in this law is because we need to finance the long-term, sustainable services of children's groups, we need them not to disappear as an offer to parents to combine family and professional life and a whole series of other effects that they meet in the coming years, so that's why this amendment came about, at least at the beginning. Unfortunately, this godly purpose, as it has sometimes been, has turned into some form of such, say, changes that have little in common with the goal itself. That is what we here from the right, we hear from the left, and we Members want to correct with our amendments. In short, so that we don't pour out the baby with the bathtub, that in order to solve one problem, we don't make other problems. And now I don't even want to quantify them, because there's a lot of them. That's all. That's all this debate is about, because we're all here, or at least the vast majority of us realize that we need this service, whether it's called one way or another, so we just need it, we need it, they need it, they need it, their parents need it. And it is simply necessary to try to be financed, so that they are available, financially and regionally. The amendments that I, together with some of my colleagues Kovářová, Richterová proposing are intended to address precisely the fact that we do not pour out the baby with the bathtub, which means that we should focus on as an age limit, which has been said here by many colleagues and colleagues many times, so I will not repeat it too much, but also the qualification of staff. They respond to the requirements of practice. They respond to the fact that services are simply still quality and available. And that's it. That's all we're looking at, no more target. For us, it is important that this service continues with the extent to which we have it, that it should develop further, that groups should grow more and more, and that it is an opportunity for parents to address their particular needs when they have a child at a certain age. Finally, I would also support a number of amendments tabled here by colleagues and colleagues from other parties. I think that amount points to the error of a whole series of assumptions that are in the proposal coming from the government. So I also want to encourage us not to think about changing the title, or at least give the freedom to continue using the name that has been being used here for years, people have started connecting it with the service, and now we should go back somewhere. I've already told the Minister, when this whole debate about this proposal was going on before it was even filed in the House, and I consider this to be just some kind of effort that I'm not comfortable with at all, and in my nature, it just feels like it's pointless for the Secretary here to just make a memorial that she can say is just here: I've introduced a nursery. In fact, it's a renaming, and it's actually a complicating situation for all those who already provide it. So I think that in the background, this attempt to make a monument should be sober with her eyes just from the point of view of practice that it doesn't do so much good, unlike how much use it will bring and how much bad it will do. I think that if we all agree that there are those goals here, so that those children's groups, to the extent that they are, or even larger, are available and of a quality for the care of young children, we can move forward boldly, because we still have a fairly large number of them. So I beg you to support sensible amendments, which are a number of, so that we simply improve the system rather than go back a few steps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u69	Madam Hana Aulická will now appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Now I will be short, because I have to say that in the previous discussion I have already said the gros, actually, because my colleagues and colleagues have provoked me to do so. Anyway, I would like to say that we support this novel on children's groups under the KSČM. We are happy for some of the adjustments that have taken place in the previous negotiations before it came to the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. But we do not resist, as I have already said, any amendments that are simply tabled here and which we think have a head and a heel. However, I would like to point out how some colleagues here have also responded to other ministries, such as the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education, that they are right, but I do not think that the Gros is playing here today by the Ministry of Health. I think the Gros is playing the Ministry of Education on this issue right now. I do not want to argue at all what the discussion in the government between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education is like. In any case, the possibility to make the conditions for setting up a kindergarten in general, as they are set up today and as they are legislatively given, as well as when we were discussing this amendment, when we were actually saying that there might be a so-called transformation in children's groups into that part of the children's group or the nursery, and that part of the kindergarten under the Education Act, so we were also talking about the conditions, we were talking about the need to think about what parameters are given there today and if there is no need to work with them. The second thing is that we do not see the efforts of the Ministry of Education, even if they have prepared the documentation, they have prepared the requirements, but above all, by the Minister, we do not see among the requirements, for example, that new parameters are possible and new limits for payment for food, because the kindergarten schools are simply in those numbers for a long time. And of course, we all know that prices are constantly rising. And even to enable the development of kindergartens in cooperation, whether they are children's groups or a nursery, we see this as an excellent alternative, further alignment and prevention of children coming to objects or places that would be unknown to them, on the contrary, matching would result in a much better system setting. And what I would also like to stress is why Mrs Pastuchová and I wanted the person with the medical education to be there. We perceive the situation. We're realists. We know what the situation is that the lack of health care professionals or nurses, or children at all, is a huge deficiency in the Czech Republic in health care itself, which means that we certainly did not want to go the way that we would tell anyone that there were nurses, but we just wanted certain certified quality education. But at the same time, if it were possible for a children's group or for a nursery, whatever the medical staff passes through here, it would be possible to develop even for that kindergarten to open up the possibility of receiving children who have some major health problems and have to have some special diet, or they will be given medications and so on, and more or less the work with them now in kindergarten is not possible because there is simply no harmonised possibility of medical personnel and who could actually provide these matters. We saw this as a great alternative and further development of this area, because unfortunately, the children and those parents are constantly growing. So we will definitely support the children's groups for us at third reading, we will support some amendments, and I think we will probably be getting closer to the other proposals by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u71	Mr Jan Čižinský has already made a statement, so he has withdrawn the application. I have now only two factual points, so first Mr Jan Bauer and then Mrs Olga Richterová. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u72	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I will only respond briefly to all previous speakers. I am from the beginning, it may be half or three quarters of a year, claiming that children's groups have found their place in the Czech Republic, that we should leave them alone, that there is no need to come up with any new legislation. This is how I interpreted it not only to the present minister, but to all my colleagues when we sat on round tables. I don't think it's just me. In 2017, the government thought so. And, of course, Minister Jana Maláčová knows this government resolution well, and I will repeat it here for the form of several times. The Government then adopted its resolution No. 654 on the concept of family policy of 18 September 2017 where, inter alia, point No. 8 agreed: "After the end of the funding of children's groups from the European Social Fund, the Ministry has the task of ensuring long-term financing of children's groups and nursery facilities from national sources'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u73	Now, on the point of fact, so far, the last application in the general debate as such, Mrs Olga Richterová. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u74	Thank you for the floor. If I am not mistaken, the Minister has not responded to my question, and now, in fact, Mrs Aulická has brought it up again, as is exactly the case with the new qualification. I will repeat my question again because I completely understood the requirement of some quality supplement - I don't know - the first aid course, just the health-oriented education, and I think there was talk of eight or sixteen hours in an additional education module. Only then, I suppose, as I understand from my colleague Aulická's speech, the Ministry has made it a new certification. But the joke is that the quality of education in the module would, of course, be guaranteed by a certified entity. I know children's groups where education does it anyway, there's a pediatrician, a pediatrician, that's how it works. But what I think just happened is that the certification is added to this module, and that's what's going to add the 5,000 crowns per day to the trial for the person who's going to add the personnel costs, and it's not necessarily necessary, nor was it necessary, if I understood correctly, the condition of your coalition partners, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u75	Now two more factual points. First, Mr Aleš Juchelka and then Minister Jana Maláčová. Ambassador, please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u76	Thank you very much. I may have misunderstood. I would just have a question through you to the Aulická, when she said that sick children would come into those children's groups, which is why the medical staff. 'Cause for them, maybe we've got some day staff. Just an example of what kind of children should be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u77	He will now speak on the factual comment of Minister Jana Maláčová, so far the last application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u78	Thank you. I'll just recap. We're looking for a system that's available to families. The new nursery, and the children's groups can transform into them within three years, will be especially for children under three years of age. From the age of three, these children should be transferred to kindergarten. We want to invest up to CZK 5 billion from the European National Recovery Plan so that municipalities can build a nursery. And it's also important that no children's groups lose on that contribution from the state, which means they don't go bankrupt. As far as Mrs Richterová's question is concerned, there is a confusion between compulsory continuing training provided by the law and the replacement of a change in the qualification assumption. What's important is that whoever has a nanny's professional qualifications now only finishes the superstructure, that means the selected modules. Whoever, for example, is a teacher or a social worker, will pass the exam with all the modules. It's up to him to take the whole course, or he'll go straight to rehearsal. That'll be the choice. The aim is to have regular continuous education for carers and we promise ourselves that we will also improve the quality of the care in the nursery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u79	One more point in fact, Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u80	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary. That's new. You said the guy who took the babysitter class in the babysitter group would only finish the selected modules. And that's exactly what I want to make sure that it's probably the two days of education, the so-called selected medical module, and that there won't be a test, the certification, the nanny in the nursery. That's the next day and more money and more work for a lot of people. That's the module. We agree on that, so it's arranged and probably reasonable. But my question is for the rehearsal, if that module will be followed by the certification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u81	One more de facto - Mr Čižinský. Please, you have the floor. [[Mr Čižinský asks the President whether he can speak in the general debate.]] Yes, you can. You're the only one, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u82	I'm just gonna say a few more words. In a few weeks, entries into kindergartens and primary schools will begin and it can be assumed that parents will have a greater tendency to delay their children, and it can be assumed that capacity in children's groups, kindergartens, etc. will not be sufficient. If we pass a law here that doesn't give a clear perspective to children's groups, unfortunately, those children's groups will have a tendency at this point in time to end this activity, because if it's just a little bit mushy and they're not sure what's waiting for them, then the solution for many of them who are now bleeding financially, and the help they're getting, unfortunately, isn't enough, it's only half help, it's gonna make them let go. I'm actually a little surprised that there is no synergy between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, and that actually someone is able to go into that risk that he will be responsible for what happens in September, that there will just be no places and children will not get into kindergarten and children's groups. I'm surprised. And so I want to ask if it's possible for a very simple map to be created before the third reading, how it's being processed by the Ministry, where the capacity is most needed. So if it's possible to make it before the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u83	I don't have any more applications. I'll look around the O.R. again. I am therefore ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Minister Jana Maláčová is not interested, Ms Lenka Dražilová is also not interested. I am opening a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Věra Kovářová will be the first to speak and Mr Aleš Juchelka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u84	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up to my amendments, which I propose together with my colleagues. Detailed reasoning was given in the general debate. The first amendment is under House document 7822, which I submit together with Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Lucie Šafránková. It concerns that municipalities of the first type, if they do not have a nursery school established in their territory, may have a children's group, i.e. a nursery, up to the age of six, up to preschool. The second amendment is brought under House document 7823 and I submit it together with Mrs Olga Richterová and Mrs Lucie Šafránková. It concerns that the contribution from the State will include not only so-called. a standard for wages and salaries, but also other operating costs, so that these facilities can be financed. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u85	Mr Aleš Juchelka will now appear and Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. After the debate, I am signing up in a detailed debate on Amendments 7832, 7834 and 7835, which I mentioned in the general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u87	Yes. Mr Jan Čižinský, Mr Jan Bauer will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. I subscribe to the amendments by my colleague Golasowská 7200, 7820, 78221 and 7804 and then to my 7817, 7833, 7824. And I'll just ask one more sentence. I think I'd really ask the Minister to respond somehow to the call for the data, the numbers where the capacity is most needed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u89	Mr Jan Bauer will now appear and prepare Mrs Olga Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u90	Mr President, this is what I want to apply to my amendment, which I spoke about in the context of the general debate. It's listed under number 7224 in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u91	So I will now ask Mrs Olga Richterová to speak and Mr Pavel Růžička will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u92	Thank you for the floor. I therefore subscribe to Amendment 7261; then 7262, this is the age, we are presenting Mrs Kovářová with her colleague; 7245, my colleague Třešňák and I present; 7395, repealing the vaccination requirement for hepatitis B, we present not only with colleague Třešňák, but also with colleague Vlastimil Válek. And then I'm still applying so we can make the third reading, the 7265 and 7266 numbers, and we'll see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u93	So now Mr Pavel Růžička will come forward and prepare Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u94	I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is being held in Houses of Document 7604. I justified it in the general debate and it concerns fire protection in the premises where the nursery is operated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u95	I'm the last one to sign up for Mrs Markéta Pekarová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u96	The amendments, which are under the numbers 7209 and 7383, which we are presenting with colleagues Kovářová and Richterová, have already been proposed by my colleague, but I hereby stress that these amendments are from our common pen. And I'm still applying to the 7208 proposal, which concerns the age limit, and it's a simple justification, it's keeping the current state ahead of this amendment because it has proven itself in recent years, when this law is here in the Czech Republic, as functional and for many families it is simply a choice between whether the child will go to kindergarten, kindergarten or children's group, or what we will call it, whether a nursery or a children's group is now one, so it is simply essential for many reasons that have been repeatedly heard here. Therefore, this amendment as an alternative to the other variants that we have here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-001-001.u97	That was the last application. I'll see if anyone else checks in. I don't see anyone, so I'm ending the debate in detail. I wonder if the rapporteur, Madam Secretary, is interested in the final words. You don't. And I see that I don't have any proposals for a vote here either, so I'm ending the second reading of this proposal. Let's start with another point. Mrs Dražilová remains seated properly. This is about
