ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u1	54. Government bill amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll. on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended /German press 870/ - first reading I welcome the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, who has arrived at the hearing of this law and will present it under the authority of the Government. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: a long-awaited law that includes a number of important acts that will await us in the coming months and years. The first is the market and efficient setting of tools and measures with appropriate forms of operating aid, extremely expected to meet the European Union's renewable energy targets, and this is up to 2030. That is why I am very pleased that we managed to get this on the table relatively quickly at the beginning of this year and, of course, we must already follow the new European legislation, which includes the European Parliament, Council and so on. The objectives for the Czech Republic have already been approved by the government, and in the national energy and climate plan in the proposed draft law, some of the measures that can be used to meet these objectives are mentioned. These measures are logically designed to eliminate other operating aid costs, which is important to say, and, on the contrary, to take utmost account of the situation on the energy market. This is, for example, the setting of the amount of aid competing with the auction performance primarily for medium and larger resources, with an output above 1 MW, or the use of a market-oriented green hourly bonus, on the contrary, for smaller sources and the non-use of aid in the form of purchase prices for new sources. We are also introducing support for biomass as one of the measures for delivery in the transport sector, which is crucial. New forms of support for their maintenance in operation are proposed for already operated energy-efficient production plants, after the end of the entitlement to the aid at the same time. [[17.10 hours]] The bill does not automatically generate any claims, it is important to say, for financing, the activation of the individual measures will be decided annually by the government, by its regulation according to the current situation. As I said, it is important to point out that the amendment to the Act is only one measure to ensure the objectives of renewable sources by 2030. I'm sure you remember the discussion that was there. We are going from 14, 15 per cent to 22 per cent, which is the most of the Visegrad Four countries. Another measure is to meet the requirements for the energy performance of buildings - a key topic - their gradual tightening. Without this, we will not move further and will not meet our objectives, which will support the further development and use of renewable resources in buildings. We also consider it essential to try to maximize the use of possible investment subsidies, or less operation, more investment. We mean support from all subsidy programmes, which will be adapted to set new targets for specific and individual areas of renewable resources. The second objective of the draft law is to introduce measures to ensure the proportionality of the aid granted, which, in turn, fulfil the obligations of our country as set out in the European Commission's decisions, whereby operational support for energy generated by the use of renewable resources and other supported energy sources is considered compatible with the internal market of the European Union. For the record, our country has already negotiated and, in total, has obtained seven decisions from the European Commission, where the requirements and commitments of these decisions are reflected in this proposal. The amendment defines the system for verifying the possible provision of excessive operating support for supported energy sources, so-called overcompensation verification of the aid granted, which will include several levels. The first is the so-called sectoral verification, in the case of producers receiving operating aid above de minimis. The second level is the application of automatic measures referred to in the Act to eliminate the risk of overcompensation of the aid granted. The third level is the individual verification of specific producers by SEI, State Energy Inspection. The assurance or finding shall be assessed by an economic profitability parameter, the so-called IRR or internal yield percentage, for a specific production plant. If the legal limit of that parameter is exceeded, this would mean that the production plant, the producer, draws on an excessive amount of aid and would apply measures that would eliminate this excessive aid, of course, to the future. Due to changes in the Act on Supported Energy Resources, an energy law, such as the change in the scope of the MIT, the market operator or various changes in the definitions of terms, etc., was also regulated. I would like to stress that the bill introduces completely new institutes. This is the whole area in the verification of the adequacy of the operating aid provided, the tools to ensure proportionality or the setting of the amount of the aid through the declaration of the auctions at the level of the aid. These issues have not yet appeared in our energy legislation. I'm looking forward to a discussion and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Pavel Pustějovskýějovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u4	Thank you for the floor. Minister, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, colleagues, the proposal for an amendment on supported energy sources introduces instruments and measures for the Government in the field of renewable energy sources. It does not represent any direct rights to finance, it gives the government the opportunity to react to the current situation each year by regulations issued. The government will be able to activate the instruments to meet the new targets by 2030, and these are due to the new legislation of the European Union. The national regulatory plan will be the national energy and climate plan. In particular, it is for example the setting of the amount of aid from auctions, intended primarily for medium and larger resources, or the use of a green hourly bonus for smaller resources. Biomethane support is also introduced. Another area is the measures and mechanisms for verifying the adequacy of support for renewable energy sources, as the Minister has said before me. The proposed changes are reflected in the Energy Act, where the scope of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, energy market operators will change, the definition of terms and related adjustments to other provisions of the Energy Act. I recommend setting up a guarantee committee for the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u5	Thank you, and I am opening a general debate for which I do not have applications at the moment. Mr. Mr. Třešňák is reporting from the scene. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u6	Thank you for the floor, good evening. Only briefly, briefly to the first reading. The Ministry of Industry and Trade introduced this novel in 2018, it was, I believe, for the first time in the government, it got to the House on May 20, 2020, so it has been lying around for almost three quarters of a year. We have already proposed a firm inclusion of this amendment in September 2020. Both the Minister and the rapporteur have summed up the most fundamental changes regarding the competence of the Ministry and individual state institutions, but let me mention that the promotion of renewable resources still has great emotions in our country, especially in the context of recent history, which has brought about solar barons, many cases and many criminal notifications. It is the historically ill-considered support, the high support for photovoltaics that cost us, perhaps even from the Minister's mouth, up to 46 billion a year, partly from public budgets, partly from the citizens' wallets in our energy accounts, that undermined the entire confidence in the most dynamically emerging industries that we have here in the energy sector. Of course, the question is whether the whole sector, which should be dealt with under ideal conditions only with the free market without any subsidies, should support some subsidies. It should be recalled, however, that we also have a lot of dirty fossil resources as part of the energy network, and we are trying to limit them in the future - we have actually invented the punishment before, or if you want negative motivation, in the form of an emission allowance. Then, on the other hand, we often invent various compensatory mechanisms or tax reliefs to mitigate the effects of rising emission allowances prices on energy prices and thus the impact on end consumers. So the whole sector is really deformed and it is a question of how to straighten the environment and not sprain it, because if the conditions today were a little better, it would lead us to consider whether such a law is needed, because theoretically it should not be necessary at all. But that really is more of a philosophical debate. However, now that carbon neutrality and climate targets are needed in general, there is probably no way to do so without such energy. That is why we want to continue to support the discussion of this law in committees and we expect many amendments to be made here. Of course, we welcome, for example, the concept of auction mechanisms, which is also tested abroad, and most of all, mentioned here by the Minister, the internal yield percentage, the so-called IRR, the individual productions and individual renewable sources will probably be discussed, where we hope that technological neutrality will be as high as possible and that individual resources will not be favoured more than the other ones. However, allow me to recall another important issue - and I spoke about it when I tried to include this point on the programme earlier - and this is the heating industry, because the heat plants in the Czech Republic supply up to two fifths of the population and a number of industrial enterprises, and at present their operation is burdened with the cost of emission allowances, which is the negative impact on prices for end consumers. I expect this, too, to be another topic that will be dealt with in committees and in the framework of some amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u7	Thank you. I do not have any more applications for the debate at the moment, so if no one else is reporting from the point of view, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final words from the rapporteur or... It doesn't look like it, so there have been no proposals for a return or rejection, so we will now deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. I did not see any other proposals, nor do I see any other proposals, so I will call my colleagues to the hall and we will vote... Colleagues are coming. [[17.20 hours]] We will therefore vote on the commandment of this press to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote number 220. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. There are 85 Members and Members registered in the 220 vote, for 78, against no one. I note that we have ordered this proposal to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee has also proposed to order this bill to the Constitutional and Legal Committee as the next committee. Does anyone else have suggestions for any other? Mr. Mr. Třešňák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u8	I propose that we discuss the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-27-ps2017-079-05-022-054.u9	So budget and the Environment Committee. So we have three proposals for other committees. First of all, it is constitutionally-legal, second in budget, third in committee on the environment. If there are no other proposals, then we will be voting them gradually. I am opening the vote number 221 and I am asking who is in favour of the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee as the next committee? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 221, 87 Members and Members are registered, for 27, against one. This proposal has not been adopted. Next up, the Committee on Budgets was proposed. I am opening the vote and asking who is next to the Committee on Budgets for the commandment? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 222 87 Members and Members are registered, for 27, against this time no one. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The third was proposed by the Environment Committee as the next Committee. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the Environment Committee's commandments? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 223, 87 Members and Members are registered, for this time 29, against 1. Nor has this proposal been adopted. I therefore say that we have not ordered a proposal to any other committee. This, of course, does not prevent committees from discussing their own will. The proposals for adjusting the time limits did not fall, so we ended the discussion of this proposal at first reading. Thank you, draftsman, thank you, rapporteur. Let's move on. Next is point number
