ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-001-006.u1	6. Proposal for the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee On this point, you received the resolution of the Election Commission No 6 of 8 November 2021. I will ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, for the opening word for the resolution tabled and, at the same time, I ask him to present to us the individual candidates who will rise at the reading of his name. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-001-006.u2	Thank you for the word. I wish you, colleagues, on the second day of the sitting, a good morning. As we have agreed, at ten o'clock we will now begin another logical step in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is the establishment of a mandate and an immune committee, which, if we decide and agree to establish it, will meet and assess the validity of our mandates, so that the House can then do more, I can say constitutional steps, i.e. the election of its leadership, chairman, Vice-Presidents of committees, committees and so on. In this context, I would like to inform you that the electoral commission sat at its second meeting two days ago, Monday, 8 November, at 6 p.m. Among other points, we specifically discussed the proposals of the parliamentary clubs on the members of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies. We have adopted resolution number 6 on the committee, which you have before you and which we will vote on as the House. Furthermore, I note that the mandate and immune committee is set up in the same way - according to the principle of proportional representation - as any other committee of the Chamber of Deputies, and I give the information that we, as the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, decided by our resolution number 2 on Monday, 8 November that the mandate and immune committee will be set up in the number of 16 members. We will now proceed as we did on Monday when I presented the members of the electoral committee. So I will first introduce you to the individual members of the mandate and immunity committee - or those proposed - in alphabetical order and ask you to always stand up and introduce yourself to each member, each member or member. So in alphabetical order: Marek Benda designed the coalition of SPOLU - he is reporting for duty in the queue, in line, Josef Cogan for Pirates and Mayors, Mr Aleš Dufek, proposed by the coalition of SPOLU, Milan Feranec for movement YES, Romana Fischerová for movement YES, Pavel Kašník, proposed by the Soprano, Mr Michael Kohajda, also for the SPOLU, followed by Mrs Taťán Malá, proposed by the movement YES, Ladislav Okleštěk, movement YES, Eliška Olšáková for Pirates and Mayors, František Petrtýl for movement ANO, Lucie Potůčková, proposed for Pirates and starosta, Radek Rozvoral za SPD, Pavel Staněk for coalition SPOLU, Pavel Svoboda also proposed SPOLU - good day - and Mrs Helena Válková, proposed for the ANO movement. So much basic information. And I will now ask you, through Mr President, the entire Chamber of Deputies, to adopt a resolution where the Chamber of Deputies agrees to set up a mandate and an immune committee in its composition, in accordance with the motion for a resolution that has been distributed to you on the bench. It is therefore the resolution of the electoral commission number 6 of 8 November.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-001-006.u3	Thank you. It's a point like everyone else, so I'm opening up a debate. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. The President of the Election Commission, if he wants to make another statement, but he has already delivered a resolution to us. We can therefore proceed to the vote. Mrs Decroix votes with replacement card number 11. Who agrees with the establishment of the mandate and immunity committee of the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the resolution tabled? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 189, for 189, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have set up a mandate and an immune committee, and I conclude the discussion of this point. In order for the mandate and immunity committee to meet at its setting-up meeting, I am entrusting this committee to Member Helena Válková, until the elected chairman of the committee has been confirmed by the House. I would like to inform you that the Committee will elect its chairman at the setting-up meeting. I would also like to remind you that the mandate and immunity committee examines whether individual Members have been elected in a valid manner and presents its findings to the Chamber of Deputies. In this context, I draw attention to the difference between the choice of committee chair and the Chamber of Deputies. In the event of the forthcoming election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, the committee shall organise the election. This means that the proposals of the candidates are not submitted to the House Election Commission but directly to the constituent meeting of this committee. According to my information, it takes at least 90 minutes for the setting-up meeting, and there is some general consensus in order for the mandate and immune committee to carry out all the necessary actions to interrupt until one hour. Can you all confirm that? So we'd connect it to lunch break, there won't be another break after that. I'm interrupting the meeting now, and I'll meet you at 1:00. Thank you. At the same time, I am calling a meeting of the mandate and immunity committee within ten minutes of the meeting's interruption, meeting room number J114, in House One, where the mandate and immune committee are now expected to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-10-ps2021-001-02-001-006.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Members of the Government, it is 1:00 a.m., we will continue the adjourned negotiations. Before I open item number 7, I have an organizational announcement. I know that several colleagues have drawn attention to the fact that only one version of the motion for a resolution has been distributed on paragraph 17; one was only in the female lineage. Now you have both versions in front of you. This proposal is given in such a way as to set a limit, and I would merely say a delay in time for you to receive both versions of the resolution. The Organizational Department is more of apologizing for this oversight or a misunderstanding. I have an additional apology here. Minister Robert Plaga apologizes today for working reasons. I'll ask all of you to take your seats. I'm gonna ask for peace. I'm initiating the adjourned negotiations and we'll continue with a point called
