ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u1	328. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended /house print 532/ - third reading I ask that the Vice-President take the position of the rapporteur's desk... Oh, he's not here. Is Secretary Schillerová here? Mr. Faltýnek, with priority rights. [[There's a noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u2	I'm so sorry, but I'd like to ask the secretary to be in the building by my communication with her, so I'm gonna ask for a two-minute break. I'm sorry. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u3	Let's continue at 9.33. [[The hearing is suspended from 9.31 to 9.33.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 9.33 a.m., we will continue. I have now received information that the Governor of the Czech National Bank is on his way, within 10 minutes he is here. I would take advantage of this space and vote immediately that the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the presence of the Governor in discussing this press. I've called in colleagues from the lobby again. We all know what we are voting on - whether the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the governor's presence at the third reading of this press. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote 217 entered 94, for 83. The motion was accepted. Thank you. The last technical communication - the rapporteur for this press is Mr Jiří Dolejš, who is currently ill. We wish him an early recovery. Miloslava Vostrá will take over his role as chairman of the Budget Committee. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 532/3, which was delivered on 21 January 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 532/4. I ask the plaintiff if she is interested in speaking before the third reading. It's not like that. So I am opening up a general debate. Mr Černohorský is reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u4	With priority rights at the moment. I was going to ask that if we approved Mr. Rusnok's presence at this point, we might be able to wait for him. You said he'd be here in about 10 minutes, if I heard correctly, so I'm gonna ask for a 10-minute break so that the governor can arrive, so that the debate that the colleagues log into can be heard and discussed with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u5	The governor has just entered the O.R. Don't you want to rethink the proposal? [[Yes.]] So let's keep going. I opened the debate at third reading. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the debate. Mr Ferjenčík is reporting from his post. I'll ask for peace in the hall again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this press is one of the most important laws that we will adopt during this parliamentary term. Unfortunately, the attention paid to him does not correspond entirely to its meaning. This is indeed a law that will have far-reaching effects on the functioning of the Czech National Bank, and it will have very significant impacts on how monetary policy will work here in the future, and it is certainly not just a law that gives the Czech National Bank some powers in the area of the mortgage market. This is a significant part of the law, but it is certainly not a decisive part of the law. Much more important is the extension of the Czech National Bank's powers by new, so-called unconventional monetary policy instruments, which will expand the possibilities of so-called quantitative easing, because this law extends the powers of the Czech National Bank in a number of areas, for example giving it the opportunity to buy corporate bonds directly on the Czech market. We believe that these instruments can be given in the time of the great crisis that we are experiencing, but we do not consider it happy that in times of the great crisis, these instruments will be approved as a permanent instrument that will transform the functioning of the Czech National Bank in the long term. In fact, a similar text is now approved, but limited in time. And we believe that this time limitation is a good instrument that allows legislation to be evaluated and then, if necessary, to address the real effects of the CNB's new instruments on their functioning. We don't think that without any more analysis to put forward such a forceful change and enforce it with the fact that it's actually disguised by a second major change, through a debate on mortgages, so we really don't consider it happy. [[9.40 hours]] As I mentioned, perhaps the most problematic part of this law from our point of view is the new option of the CNB to buy corporate bonds and shares. Indeed, this power is very strong and we fear that, given the small Czech market and the real intervention of the national bank there can be very, very significant. This means that the CNB's interventions can very strongly disadvantage the segment primarily of medium-sized and smaller Czech companies, which, in contrast to the large ones that they achieve, negotiate a purchase with the Czech National Bank with reference to, say, a crisis situation or other reasons, there is also a risk of political influence, the Czech National Bank has invested in some Chinese securities, where it is not entirely clear whether there was any other meaning of the transaction than any expression of political sympathy, so for these reasons we think that the power is not permanently happy. We have held a number of negotiations on the compromise form of this proposal. Unfortunately, the Minister of Finance has not yet reflected in any of our amendments, so far it seems that the government wants to push through to the strength of the text that is proposed, and we do not see it as happy at all. We have proposed extending the transparency of those operations that the Czech National Bank will carry out following the model of the European Central Bank, we have proposed a time limitation and we believe that this really big change deserves much more attention. Then there is the second part of the law, the one occupying most of the public debate, and that is the question of limits for standard indicators for the provision of mortgages. Here you have to look at what the basic problem is. The basic problem is that the prices of flats are rising in the Czech Republic. This is indeed a fundamental problem and it needs to be addressed. The solution must certainly be at the level of a number of partial measures. Unfortunately, here we only meet with some segmental solution, one aspect is solved and unfortunately, other aspects are dealt with very limitedly. Unfortunately, concern has been confirmed that, for example, the abolition of the property acquisition tax will increase property prices, as transaction costs are falling at resale, so this has unilaterally benefited speculative purchases. And unfortunately, property prices continue to rise even in a situation where we have a crisis where household incomes stagnate. Yet there is massive growth. This is due, among other things, to very low interest rates, which means that they are more affordable mortgages, but that leads to people reaching a larger loan and ultimately paying more for the property. So even though people could profit from the low interest rates, it doesn't happen in the finals because prices are rising sharply. We agree with the instrument of limitation, the so-called LTV, that is to say the loan-to-value, the ratio between the loan and the part of the property price covered by this loan. We think it's meaningful because it protects the debtor. The mechanism is quite simple. The point is that when there was some decline in property prices, in our country it happened for example in 2008, when property prices fell by about 20 percent, so when such a decline occurs and at the same time often the decline is accompanied by the economic crisis, it means that people are losing their jobs and it is more difficult for them to pay back the mortgage, so in such a situation, when it is like 80 percent LTV, one has the confidence that one will be able to repay the loan at least from the sale of the property he borrowed, which means that he will not be in danger of selling the property and will still be indebted in such a way that it will be able to repay it for a very long time. For these reasons, we consider this indicator quite rational and do not want to exclude it from the law. However, other indicators are significantly more problematic from our point of view and we support their release. We believe that the current situation, when the CNB only recommends these indicators, is sufficient. The main argument used by the national bank is that current legislation does not allow foreign mortgage providers to be regulated, who would operate on our market and would not be banking institutions regulated on the Czech market. However, on the other hand, when we look at it, Czech consumers are relatively conservative and certainly do not appear likely that this type of entity would gain any significant stake in the real estate market, let alone if it used any shark techniques, that it actually gives dumped mortgage prices or something like that. We simply believe that this problem, which the national bank draws attention to, is more virtual than real, similarly the idea that mortgages will be sold over the Internet. We simply believe that this is very unlikely, especially for institutions that are not regulated within the banking market in the Czech Republic. Therefore, we consider the limits of DTI and DSTI redundant. There will then be a number of specific cases, such as students at doctoral studies who have scholarships, or businessmen with flat-rate tax and flat-rate taxes, and a number of other specific groups that have real income for some reason higher than some basic income or which will be applicable under that law. We would like to see the CNB's methodology on this matter in advance. Indeed, we do not consider these two instruments to be too happy. Another important area is the extension of the advantage for young people up to 36 years of age, even if the debtor is a person over 36 years of age. What's going on? It turns out, or statistically, that people are gradually making more and more over the years. Therefore, it is appropriate to have less stringent criteria for younger people than for older people as regards income limits for the loan. For 36 years, there is a line that can be quite low in a number of life situations. There are people who, as I mentioned, maybe study doctoral studies at university and are going to enter a job at a later age, and they will be very strongly discriminated against. It is assumed that after a few years they will receive a significantly higher wage, but at the beginning of their careers they have a low wage, so they may not have to reach the mortgage after that, even though from the point of view of scoring the bank would simply receive the loan. So we support the extension of this exception, as well as the increase in the criterion or the increase in the threshold for a less stringent criterion over 40 years, by analogy with the State Investment Support Fund. [[9.50 hours]] And then the very important proposal we are making is the inclusion of the Czech National Bank among the mandatory entities in terms of the Act on the Register of Contracts. Of course, we're talking about contracts that involve, like, IT contracts and stuff like that, we're not talking about things covered by bank secrets. We believe that it is appropriate to strengthen the transparency of the Czech National Bank, that there is simply no reason for there to be an exception, just as this House has managed to cancel this exception with ČEZ and other state companies, so we consider that it is appropriate to cancel it with the Czech National Bank. We do not support the extension of the possibility of establishing our own legal entities. We consider the present solution sufficient. There is a risk that subordinate companies could be used for activities that are not part of authorised activities directly by the CNB, there is also negative experience from abroad. I will still join the debate and comment in more detail on some of the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mr Skopeček is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u8	Thank you. We are meeting over an endless novel that has been hanging here since the end of last term. It's a very serious amendment to the law. It is also evidence that we have organized a number of seminars in the House, which were also held by representatives of the Czech National Bank, for which I thank them, but I would like to point out that this is not really a technical amendment, it is a very serious amendment. In fact, I consider this to be one of the most important points in economic policy that we are discussing here in this parliamentary term. I will do so later, but in the first speech I would like to draw attention to the fact that the amendment brings about changes, significant changes, in two areas. The first area that the amendment changes is the Czech National Bank's instruments and this amendment brings or brings new non-traditional monetary policy instruments into the hands of the Czech National Bank. The second area, which the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act addresses, is the new powers of the Czech National Bank in the area of mortgage market, in the area of mortgage lending regulation. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, this law brings a brutal increase in the powers of the Czech National Bank, the highest in the history of the Czech National Bank. I want to submit that I greatly appreciate and recognise the Czech National Bank as an authority in the economic policy of the Czech Republic. I am also able to sign that, with some exceptions, the Czech National Bank contributed to the development and development of the Czech economy in the history of the Czech Republic, and I think that the Czech National Bank, apart from exceptions - for me it was perhaps too harsh to press the brakes and too restrictive policy in the second half of the 1990s, which, in my opinion, deepened unnecessarily the crisis, the second moment that I cannot agree with in the Czech National Bank's policy, was foreign exchange interventions that ended not very long ago - except for these exceptions, I really consider the Czech National Bank in the field of monetary policy and in the area of monitoring the stability of the financial market to be a very successful and respectable institution, and I want to stress this very strongly and aloud. However, I cannot agree with the new powers of the Czech National Bank in the new law that it sends to the Chamber of Deputies through the Ministry of Finance. As I said before, the law brings significant changes in two areas. One of them is non-traditional monetary policy instruments, and the other is mortgage regulation. Let me first stop at the new monetary policy instruments, which are intended to allow the new Czech National Bank to enter financial markets more easily and freely and more easily to buy government bonds, both government bonds and private securities. I consider both of these possibilities, which the Czech National Bank is to get into the wine newly, to be dangerous and bad. Regarding the possibility of the new central bank to buy government bonds more easily, in literature it is called monetization of government debt and the entire history of central banking for the last years it has been a completely forbidden, unacceptable practice in both theory and practice of central banks. Why was it so unacceptable and forbidden? Because the market interest rate on government bonds, which is set on the free market, was the last brake on government debt. Until the debt crisis that started after 2008 and caught up with a lot of Western economies that ran counter to some rules of stable, sound public finances, so their interest on government bonds went up and, of course, they de facto removed government bonds from the market and those overdebted governments were unable to offer government bonds at reasonable market interest, free financial market. So then they had to come running to the aid of central banks, which began to buy government bonds that were so toxic, so bad that standard investors in the financial market didn't want to buy them. Central banks thus bypassed the market and helped governments to bring the market interest rate to a non-market level, to a level that does not correspond to their debt levels, and de facto allowed these economies to continue indebting without delay. Do we really want to board the same train in the Czech Republic? Do we really want the Czech National Bank to help a government that is unable to manage and ensure the long-term sustainability of public finances? We want to give the central bank an instrument that will help the government, without doing anything with public finances, so that it can be sure that there will always be an uncle, the good uncle, the Czech National Bank, who will run to help, even if the public finances of the Czech Republic are bad enough that standard investors will not want to buy government bonds? I don't want this giant moral hazard. I am concerned about where the public finances of the Czech Republic under this government are going under this minister. I am concerned about this, I think that the huge work of the forthcoming Chamber of Deputies, the forthcoming governments will do something about public finances, and I do not want to allow us to put the government to sleep again in the coming years, any government to do nothing about public finances and rely on the worst of it, even if it is miserable, the Czech National Bank will come to buy government bonds and continue to go happily in debt. Indeed, the interest rate on government bonds is the last brake, the last indicator that can get the government to do something about unhealthy public finances. If we remove this last emergency brake and allow the government to buy bonds that will only be a piece of paper, we're rushing into something I don't want to conceive at all. I do not consider it the best idea to allow the Czech National Bank, in addition to buying government bonds, to purchase various private securities, shares, bonds. Nor do I think it is okay, and other countries' central banks have believed that printing money, that quantitative easing that is taking place through the purchase of private securities, will contribute to getting a whole range of Western economies out of the long stagnation that has come after 2008, and that it will help to free themselves from these countries' long-standing stagnation. However, when we look at these economies, not even negative interest rates, which are the result of massive quantitative easing, did not lead in these economies to some healthy robust economic growth or some sensible targeted inflation that individual central banks have as their main objective. Nor could they, in my opinion, because the problem not only of the Czech Republic but also of Western countries is not really the lack of cheap money on the market, which is sufficient without any quantitative easing taking place. [[10.00 hours]] However, when we look at these economies, not even negative interest rates, which are the result of massive quantitative easing, did not lead in these economies to some healthy robust economic growth or some sensible targeted inflation that individual central banks have as their main objective. Nor could they, in my opinion, because the problem not only of the Czech Republic but also of Western countries is not really the lack of cheap money on the market, which is sufficient without any quantitative easing taking place. Again, I ask: Do we really want the Czech National Bank to use non-traditional monetary policy instruments to print money so that we have negative interest rates? I do not want this, I do not consider it a beneficial economy, and I also think that the Czech Republic does not need anything like this, no such unconventional monetary policy instrument. The quantitative easing to which the Czech National Bank will get through this amendment is no risk-free thing. What is the risk when the Czech National Bank launches the quantitative easing that is written in this amendment to the CNB Act, which we are discussing today? Well, in economies, it has always happened that, at a time when central banks were massively discounting money, they were massively pumping money into the economy, sooner or later there was significant inflation in that economy. Do we want to give the Czech National Bank an instrument that can contribute to a very high rise in inflation in the finals, at a time when the Czech National Bank is unable to fulfil its long-term inflation target to guard even without these non-traditional instruments? I think that this is simply not necessary and that the Czech National Bank has the opposite problem today, namely that it is unable to reduce inflation to its target level, which it has as its main monetary policy objective in terms of inflation targeting. But it is not just a risk of high inflation that can come with quantitative release. By buying into the financial markets, by printing more money, the Czech National Bank will, of course, increase the size of the financial sector towards the real economy. In short, the balance sheets of the world's central banks, which have embarked on quantitative easing, are growing. The relative share of the financial sector in relation to the real economy is growing and this risk is simple. Any further crisis that emerges from the financial system will be much more devastating than the financial crisis that we experienced in 2008 because, in short, the financial system will be much larger in size towards the real economy than it was in 2008. My colleague Ferjenčík mentioned this, although this is a less serious argument in my opinion, but I still have to mention it: there is simply a very high risk of the central bank's ability to help certain interest groups, because in short, the central bank will have a tool to point to individual securities, to individual shares of private entities, and it will be able to say: I will not buy one, I will not buy it, this company, which is in trouble, I will not help this company. Any other president who will be elected, and without a doubt, a number of interest groups will be involved in his election campaign, so this president, if we realize that in the Czech Republic it is the head of state that appoints all the members of the central bank, including the governor, this president will be in a permanent conflict of interest, in terms of whether he would happen to appoint those bankers to the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, who will in the future meet the purchase or purchase of financial private securities of one or other interest group, which may have participated or did not participate in the financing of such a presidential campaign. If this law passes, I think we should think about adjusting the method of appointment of members of the Czech National Bank, because with the brutal increase in the powers of the Czech National Bank, which, if you approve it, will occur, I do not think that any president, any next president, should have the right as the only person in the constitutional system of the Czech Republic to appoint all members of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank. The second area that the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act regulates is the regulation of mortgages, albeit in the media and during discussions in the Chamber of Deputies on this law dominated this area by discussions and direct in the context of political discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies or at any other time, so I consider it of course an important part, but the non-traditional instruments are, in my opinion, much more serious. However, to regulate mortgages. The Czech National Bank wants to take on the role of risk management of individual commercial banks, which, of course, today, and certainly many of you have experienced this when applying for a mortgage loan, so, of course, today commercial banks that provide these mortgage loans are testing any mortgage applicant with regard to his income situation and ability to repay. And you, who have been through the mortgage application, well know that you already have to quite explicitly document the amount of your income, the amount of your property situation, whether you are indebted to other consumer credit, and so on. So today, without the Czech National Bank doing anything, commercial banks, of course, in their interest - because they want their clients to pay back their loans - are, of course, testing every mortgage applicant very closely in terms of their income, property or debt situation. At the same time, it should be noted that the Czech National Bank already has the so-called recommendations it uses in the direction of commercial banks, and these recommendations have been respected by commercial banks in the past. Thus, when the Czech National Bank recommended to commercial banks that they should not lend to 90 percent of the price of the purchased property, but only to 80, commercial banks - and the Governor will certainly confirm it - simply respected these recommendations in 99 percent. I think that such a significant increase in powers in the area of mortgage regulation is not in the Czech Republic, even in terms of the health of our financial sector. Indeed, we have our banking system within the European Union as one of the healthiest, most stable, and even one of the most profitable. When we look at the credit portfolio of Czech banks, it is very high quality and this portfolio is very healthy compared to a whole range of European economies. When we look and divide the loans granted into loans to business entities and mortgage loans, we find that mortgage loans are less dangerous, less risky products that Czech commercial banks provide than business loans. [[10.10 hours]] When we look at the ratio of loans that are repaid after some maturity, we are again moving on top of the Czech Republic when it comes to the ability of bank clients to pay off their liabilities. I do not understand why the Czech National Bank demands such strong powers and why it so strongly wants to intervene in the mortgage market when the mortgage market in the Czech Republic is healthy. And, as my colleague Ferjenčík said, his problem is not that the Czech National Bank regulates the mortgage market, but the problem related to the real estate market in the Czech Republic is that there is little construction in the Czech Republic, that due to this, real estate prices are high and its policy of very low interest rates the Czech National Bank motivates clients of commercial banks to commit to these expensive properties through mortgage loans. So the Czech National Bank wants to put out by these regulations what itself causes the relatively relaxed monetary policy that it has implemented in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, for both these reasons, I do not consider it appropriate to approve the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act. Don't let them tell you it's some technical standard that doesn't bring anything dramatic. It's not like that. This is one of the most important, most serious economic policy interventions that we will be discussing in this parliamentary term. And the fact that neither the Minister of Finance nor the Governor has said a word to begin with, I find it embarrassing, unacceptable and please make amends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u9	Hello. There's just one more thing. The speech before the third reading is intended primarily for the applicant's wish - the last option - to withdraw the proposal. He then developed a customary space to speak an introductory word, but this is not meant within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. I have three factual points here. Mr Ferjenčík is even twice logged in. Do you know why this happened? Because we checked you out, and you checked in again. We rebooted as a result of...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to join my colleague Skopeček's plea to the Governor and the Minister in two areas in particular. I wanted to ask if the governor could evaluate two things, as extended powers work now, within the time-limited mandate approved by the House, so I would like to see an evaluation of the law currently in force, which allows for the same, but is limited in time. Secondly, I would like to ask for an evaluation of the functioning of the Czech National Bank's recommendations on the mortgage market, which actually enable the national bank to do very similar things to this law, but nevertheless through recommendations and some informal communication with banks, or even formal, if there were mandatory reserves. However, I am interested in evaluating these two things, because this is very important for our final position on this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u11	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Munzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary. I would like to add my factual comment and respond to my colleague Jan Skopeček. Indeed, Mr President, we are at the third reading today, and today we will definitely decide whether or not to entrust these powers to the Czech National Bank. And I think it's appropriate to really talk about it in detail, notabene, when the first reading took place about a year ago. And I am not sure that all colleagues who, for example, do not pursue such economic areas, economic laws, whether they have sufficient information about what this bill will do, and then they will vote on it here. I also find it absolutely unbelievable that the Minister of Finance started the third reading by absolutely deafening silence, because no argument as to why we should accept it today, notabene, when the amendment to the CNB Act was adopted during the year, which gave the Czech National Bank temporary powers for quantitative easing. Today we do not know how the Czech National Bank has dealt with it. And these are all the questions that we should be discussing here. And what does a government representative do about it? Shut up! I would ask the Minister to speak and summarize the reasons why it is necessary to adopt this law today. And I would ask the Governor, now in the discussion - not until the end, now in the discussion - to speak, to answer the reservations and those questions raised by my colleagues here in the general debate. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u13	Thank you. Mr Member, of course I fully respect the debate, that is all right. I just wanted to point out that the speeches before the opening of the debate pursuant to § 86 para. 6 - the appellant may withdraw the law until the beginning of the debate in the third reading of the bill, then only with the consent of the House. That's why there's always a call for a performance. But otherwise, of course, the Minister may speak in the debate, as well as the Governor. With a factual remark, Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u14	Mr President, I agree with your interpretation. On the other hand, you will surely agree with me that, in such important and important laws, the petitioner has always spoken at the start of the discussion. I cannot imagine, for example, the Minister when discussing the state budget at third reading that she would not speak at the beginning and sum up arguments that lead to her wish to push and approve such a law through the Chamber of Deputies. The amendment to the CNB Act is a really strong, dramatic increase in the powers of the Czech National Bank. In my opinion, this is indeed the most fundamental law in the area of economic policy, which we will discuss during this parliamentary term, and here and from the Governor, and from the Minister of Silence. It's just weird and unacceptable given the seriousness of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u15	I've only taken the liberty of informing a little about the Rules of Procedure, otherwise, of course, I respect the opinions of others. It's true that it's settled, that someone's getting off at the beginning, which I don't agree with, but that's probably all I can do about it. Otherwise, he's a regular performer. Next for the debate is Mr Martínek. Mr Jakob will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law which to a large extent extends the powers of the Czech National Bank in several areas. First, the law extends the powers of the Czech National Bank to set the upper limit for selected mortgage credit indicators. These are indicators: LTV, loan-to-value, an indicator measuring the total amount of debt of the borrower in relation to consumer loans secured by the same residential property to the value of the collateral of the loan, DSTI - debit service-to-income, that is to say, an indicator measuring the expenditure of the borrower arising from the total amount of its debt to its income, and DTI - debit-to-income, that is, an indicator measuring the amount of the total debt of the borrower to its income. The CNB is empowered to issue measures governing the method and rules of these credit indicators. The CNB notes that in January 2019 it was possible to establish credit indicators in 20 of the 31 countries examined by European countries. All three credit indicators are provided by law only in Slovakia. LTV is stipulated by law in 16 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. DTI is set out in 3 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. The DSTI is set out in 7 out of 20 countries where the law allows it. This Czech National Bank statistics also show that in most countries where the possibility of legal regulation of credit indicators is used primarily by LTVs. If the LTV were to be determined on the values declared by the Czech National Bank by its recommendation, it should provide sufficient guarantees to the bank for possible compensation of damage if the debtor was unable to repay his property loan. The methods used by the CNB indicate that in mid-2018 the prices of flats were overvalued by around 10 percent in view of the development of economic fundamentals. [[10.20 hours]] We propose that the Czech National Bank publish the following information on transactions under newly acquired powers: the designation of the counterparty, unless the transaction is on a regulated market, a multilateral trading venue or a community exchange, the value of the trade and the indication of the subject of the transaction, in particular the designation of its issuer. Credit indicators based on applicants' income may not be an objective measure. It is not appropriate to take the current income as a berné coin for many further years of the duration of the mortgage loan. Banks could have difficulty determining the fulfilment of these credit indicators for example for fixed-term workers, business owners using flat-rate spending or flat-rate tax or income-based persons that the bank may not accept, such as scholarships and the like. In addition, taking current income as a coin for determining the client's credit in the coming years is similar to LTV divination from a crystal ball and the way to verify the ability to repay should be on a commercial bank. In many cases, Czech banks demonstrate the ability to adequately estimate the client's credit based on their own tests. For the above reasons, I propose an amendment which leaves the Czech National Bank an option to set LTVs by law and, at the same time, credit indicators based on the applicant's income, i.e. DTI and DSTI, to set them only in the form of recommendations that regulated banks generally comply with, because they are aware of the possibility of the Czech National Bank to regulate them in the context of capital adequacy and other measures. In order to protect consumers with regard to possible future offers of foreign entities, for which the CNB mainly wants this legal power, the LTV is sufficient from our point of view. Furthermore, the Government's draft law in Section 45b introduces relief for young applicants for credit in the form of reduced upper limits of credit indicators. In practice, when setting the upper limit of one or more indicators by the Czech National Bank, the upper limit of these indicators will be higher for applicants up to 36 years, in the case of LTV by 10 percentage points, DSTI by 5 percentage points and DTI by one year times net revenue. Where a loan is requested by more than one person, typically pairs, the requirement for the age criterion for applying this derogation shall be met by all applicants. Given the current housing situation in the Czech Republic, we propose to mitigate the requirement for the age criterion for more people. We propose that enough is enough that one of the persons applying for credit must comply with this age condition. In the event that there is at least one person under 36 years of age among the applicants, the assumption remains that the person is likely to increase income relatively more quickly than the older person's career, while the assumption of a longer career allowing a longer period of mortgage repayment remains valid. I therefore propose an amendment to prevent discriminatory situations where applicants, for example 37 and 30 years of age, would not, according to the original proposal, achieve lower conditions than two applicants of 35 years of age. Although I am glad that the Committee has already adopted an amendment to my amendment, which regulates the condition to meet only one of the applicants by applying to spouses or registered partners, on the other hand, I do not believe that it is necessary to narrow the condition in such a way. Therefore, proposal D2, SD 4433 is tabled, where I would like to ask you for his support. However, as part of the Ministry of Regional Development's plan, namely the State Investment Support Fund, which wants to make State loans more attractive to young people who need to finance housing, this age limit for granting lower criteria is increasing. An increase in the age limit from 36 to 40 years is approved. I quote from the Ministry of Regional Development's press release: "Our goal is for the new programme to be able to use as many families as possible to deal with the issue of its own housing. That is why we come under this programme with a significant release of requirements. The credit rate will again depend on the EU rate, but it will be reduced by 0.2 percentage points for each child under the age of 15, which the applicant continues to care for," says Minister for Regional Development Klára Dostálová. The age limit of applicants is shifted to 40 years, it is also possible to buy a cooperative share from the programme and there is an increase in the credit limit. It may ask for up to CZK 600,000, CZK 2 million and up to CZK 2.4 million to modernize the house. The programme shall be launched immediately after its entry into force, which is planned for 15 January 2021. In the specific part of the explanatory memorandum, the petitioner himself explains the determination of the age criterion of 36 years following the age conditions for granting the funds of the State Housing Development Fund, or the present State Investment Support Fund, in the form of a loan to support the construction of rental flats in the Czech Republic, mentioned by Government Decree No. 284/2011 Coll., as amended. Today's State Investment Support Fund offers a credit program for the acquisition or modernisation of homes for people under 40 years of child care up to 15 years of age. Who, according to the information on the State Investment Support Fund's website, can apply? Persons who live in a marriage or registered partnership in which at least one spouse or registered partner has not reached the date of application for a loan of 40 years of age or a person under 40 years of age who is permanently caring for a child who has not reached the date of application for a loan of 15 years of age. The applicant may not be the owner or co-owner of the dwelling at the time of the application for a loan for the acquisition of the dwelling. This condition does not apply to loans for modernisation or the tenant of a cooperative apartment. As well as his spouse or registered partner, he may not be the owner or co-owner of the dwelling or a member of the housing cooperative and at the same time the tenant of the cooperative apartment. For this reason, by analogy, we propose an increase in the age for entitlement to relief under Section 45b of the amendment to the Act for 40 years. If the petitioner wants conditions aligned with the State Investment Support Fund, then he should support both amendments that ensure this harmonisation. Specifically, it is D4, SD 5518, and D5, SD 5520. In Section 40, the explicit legislative incorporation of the Czech National Bank's ability to establish or participate in the legal person to support the performance of its tasks is added. This means that the Czech National Bank may not always be a 100% owner of such a legal entity. We regard the explicit legislative anchoring of the Czech National Bank's ability to establish a legal person to support the performance of its tasks or to take part in it as redundant. As the petitioner himself states in the detailed part of the explanatory memorandum, this event has so far been based on a generally defined authorisation to carry out investment activities, to safeguard the tasks of the central bank, as contained in the current version of Section 40. The Czech National Bank has already invested in Czech financial companies, s.r.o., SWIFT. We consider that the existing text of Section 40 is sufficient, so we propose that it be maintained. On the contrary, the adoption of the amendment of Section 40, as proposed by the Ministry, and the establishment of an explicit rule of authorisation of the Czech National Bank to establish or acquire a legal person in the Czech National Bank may lead to the possibility that subordinate companies could be used for activities which are not part of the authorised activities directly of the Czech National Bank. My next proposal sets out the obligation of the Czech National Bank to publish trades which it will carry out under its new jurisdiction. It is published immediately in a way that allows remote access, and if publication would jeopardise the activities of the Czech National Bank, it is possible to postpone part of the publication. The original government bill is designed to significantly extend the powers of the Czech National Bank in the new version of Section 32, especially in the field of transactions in the financial market. These powers are already available to the Czech National Bank, but within a limited time limit. Transparency is generally regarded as a means of increasing confidence in public institutions. In this case, transparency is a means of increasing the credibility and responsibility of the central bank. It is therefore proposed that the Czech National Bank should publish without undue delay information on how it implemented its newly acquired and further acquired powers. We propose that the Czech National Bank publish the following information on transactions under newly acquired powers: the designation of the counterparty, unless the transaction is on a regulated market, a multilateral trading venue or a community exchange, the value of the trade and the indication of the subject of the transaction, in particular the designation of its issuer. [[10.30 hours]] It is unimaginable that the Czech National Bank would not publicly inform about its decisions regarding conventional monetary policy, namely interest rates. Therefore, there should also be public information as to what business the Czech National Bank is carrying out on the financial market. Since the financial crisis in 2008, the European Central Bank has been carrying out non-standard operations on the money and capital markets. As of June 2017, information on quantitative easing programmes has been published at the level of detail within which the issuer's name, the ISIN number and other information on purchased bonds are listed. The information is published and updated every week. For example, yesterday, I visited the European Central Bank's website, and it is clear from the published information that, at the end of the last week, the ECB holds these assets worth less than EUR 262 billion under the Business Securities Trading Programme. It is also possible to click on the list of corporate bonds held under the CSPP or PEPP programme at the end of last week. In this list, you will find information about the NCB, the international security identification number, the "ISIN," the name of the issuer of the security, the maturity date of the security and the coupon rate, i.e. the annual payment of the interest rate on the bonds. I will give an example from the current table on the ECB's website. As of 5 March, the Belgian Central Bank holds a security under the international identification number ISIN XS1024136282 issued by Heineken N. V. with a maturity of 30. 7. 2029 and coupon rate 3,5 %. In the list currently comprising more than 1,600 items, i.e. securities, each can browse through and compare individual parameters. Everything is updated and made available transparently every week. The citizen of the euro area has information about the European Central Bank's business before a citizen of the Czech Republic is guaranteed, who does not yet have such information, and if we do not approve it as part of the law, he may not have that information. I would therefore like to ask the Governor whether, within the current time-limited competence, purchases of such securities have already taken place and, if so, how the information is disclosed. Therefore, I would like to ask for the return of the bill to second reading, where we would be looking for agreement on an amendment that will ensure sufficient transparency in quantitative easing operations in line with the maintenance of banking secrecy. Similarly, I believe that we will find agreement on an amendment that would allow for a clear definition that the current operating contracts of the Czech National Bank will be part of the register of contracts, just as any other public institution must publish them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u17	Good morning, honourable Members. I noted the motion to return to second reading. Before we continue the debate, and this is a factual remark by Vojtěch Munzar, I state an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from the Minister of Agriculture, Miroslav Toman. Now Vojtěch Munzar with a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u18	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I will use this factual point. He has raised a very important question here by your colleague Martínek, which I have actually mentioned here, and other colleagues have mentioned how the Czech National Bank is actually using the new powers which are temporarily conferred on it by the press, which has been discussed here in the context of a legislative emergency. I think that the questions have been raised here, and I call again on both the Governor and the Minister to speak now in the debate and to sum up the reasons why this proposal has to be adopted today, the reasons why the government is now presenting it to us, why it will not wait for an evaluation of the previous amendment. And I would really ask you to do that, because we can have different opinions, we can have different views on the need for this amendment, the need for these powers, but, after all, the parliamentary debate is about the debate, it is not about silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Jakob will now appear, and Vojtěch Munzar will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little disappointed at this debate, which is one-sided, because here we are really discussing a very key amendment that will mark or affect - hopefully in the end positively - the economic balance and development of this country. So I'm joining my colleagues, and I'd really like the Minister, who is leaving now, to have this discussion with us. We are in the House, in Parliament, that is, the place where the debate is really to be held. At the same time, I would also like the Governor to inform us about how these measures have been implemented so far. I consider this absolutely crucial to our further decision-making. If this discussion does not take place here and it does not go well, then, of course, I join the proposal that has been made here, i.e. to return the discussion to second reading. As I said, we are discussing a really key amendment here. Colleagues have raised many fundamental issues, arguments and questions. I would also like to say that the amendment here is presented primarily because of the change in the implementation of monetary policy, particularly in the European Union and the euro area. As is our good Czech custom, we also add a lot of additional issues, and as has already been done here, these are mainly the powers of the Czech National Bank, especially in the mortgage and credit markets. I'm gonna try to say it a little bit different, probably not as well-founded words as colleagues. The amendment introduces a number of credit indicators, measures, restrictions on business and credit operations. What is the essence of a commercial bank? After all, this is a business entity that seeks some profit, and that profit is not primarily made out of fees, which is not so much anymore, and even in the ranks of ANO colleagues here there are people, and now I don't see Patrik Nacher, who fought against these nonsense charges, but the commercial bank is primarily making profit by assessing the risk for which he provides credit, and this puts the risk at the rate of interest. This is the fundamental principle, and this amendment increases the central bank's powers so much that commercial banks are severely limited in this, and actually the central bank then sets and evaluates the risks for commercial banks. What are commercial banks supposed to do with their risk separation, assess individual cases, determine the level of risk and determine the terms of the loan they provide or do not provide? There is no sense, if we were to approve these increased powers of the Czech National Bank, this basic principle of functioning of commercial banks is significantly limited and subdued, which I do not consider right for the market. [[10.40 hours]] I would also like to comment directly on the package of amendments, if I already have a word that concerns exceptions for selected indicators for loan applicants. I completely agree that the limitation that both applicants must be up to 36 years of age is restrictive when one of them is even a little older, so they can't reach the exception anymore, so I'm sure that makes a lot of sense to me. On the other hand, and with all due respect for the proposals that are made here, extending the exemption upwards as regards the age of applicants, I'm worried that the exception would become a rule and everything else, so those cases would be less than those exceptions, which in itself doesn't make sense. Anyway, given the seriousness of this amendment, I'm joining my colleagues, and I'm asking you very much to have this discussion, and I'm asking that the arguments fall here. I also like to be convinced that this is a good way to go. Notaben, the novel is needed, no doubt. The question is whether the powers set up to this extent are for the benefit of the matter, and therefore I would also be really interested in the experience to date, what it has to do, what these measures mean in the framework of the Czech National Bank's policy, so I would really like to know and consider it absolutely crucial for the decision-making of this amendment. So I'm really excited, and I'm hoping that this discussion will take place here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u21	That was Mr. Jan Jakob. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar, but before that, with priority rights, when I do not see the club president here, Vice-President of the Pirates Club, colleague of Černohorský. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We have spoken to our colleagues that we would like to give the Minister and the Governor time to prepare the answers, because they are not ready to do so yet. So I would ask for a 30-minute or 32-minute recess for a meeting of the MP's club, and in the meantime, the Governor and the Minister can prepare answers because other colleagues are not equipped with a priority right, and if they really respond in the final word, then they can't follow up on any further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u23	I see this as a recess at a meeting of the MP's club because I do not know, according to the Rules of Procedure, a recess to prepare ministers or the governor of a national bank, I cannot see it that way. So I can only put out a break for the Pirates MP's meeting until 11.15. Yes, did I get that right? Okay. So until 11:15 is a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Vice Prime Minister, I do not see another member of the government here, we will continue. A break has passed for a meeting of the Pirate Party Club and now Vojtěch Munzar gets the word in the order of entries. A colleague of Ferjenčík will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u25	Thank you again. Hello, everyone. I would, then, Mr President, prefer the Governor or the Minister if they want to respond to the debate and the questions as to whether they are interested in discussing with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u26	You're logged in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u27	Okay, well, let's see if there's any interest. Maybe I'll be a little bit longer because some of the things that have fallen here, maybe I'll repeat because we haven't received the answers to our questions yet, our reservations, our opinions. I really think that such a serious amendment, which will significantly strengthen the powers of the central bank, should not escape such attention from the petitioners and those concerned. We do indeed fear the risks and effects of this increase in powers and do not yet receive and have not received satisfactory answers. Unfortunately, thanks to the pandemic situation, which occupies media and naturally media attention as well as public attention, this point unfortunately escapes this media attention and public attention. It is also noteworthy that, in limiting the opportunity to meet, I lack very detailed expert discussions and round tables where this would be discussed. Before the first reading and around the first reading, when possible, such round tables took place, but since then we all have a little complicated life and I am very sorry because such an important amendment is really meant to be discussed. We will not hide that every crisis also leads to the fact that different state institutions are trying to gain additional powers, competences and the task of our Chamber of Deputies is really very sensitive to consider whether such competence is appropriate, and we should also be able to identify the risks that such an increase in powers entails. Unfortunately, I really, really miss this discussion here. I also lack an assessment of how the central bank is today dealing with the temporary possibility of quantitative easing that we adopted here in a legislative emergency, or a government majority adopted it in a legislative emergency and was there after very important and very possibly sometimes tense discussions agreed a compromise by the end of this year, and yet here we have this amendment, which actually wants to extend these competences in quotes forever. As I said, every crisis unfortunately leads to a permanent effort to increase the competence of state institutions, and the Czech National Bank wanted to expand its power and influence even before the crisis. Now, the crisis is suitable for some arguments, because it is always argued that it is for the good of society, but in reality, the use of powers is often different from fantasies and popular proclamations. Every authority has its perverted face. Unlike the government under Parliament's control, the central bank is independent and therefore the control by the public is very limited, or there is no call for action against its decision. I am not questioning anything, and it is good that we have a balance of individual powers here and that the central bank is independent, but it also means that we in the Chamber of Deputies should really weigh very sensitively several times, measure very much, weigh on a bowl of scales several times and assess several times from all sides any new competence, power and power that we entrust to the central bank and how much we may possibly narrow or loose its manoeuvrability, because we can really ask ourselves here an old and true question about who will guard the central bank. Therefore, allow me to repeat some of the thesis that I said here in previous discussions. During last year, an amendment was adopted on the Czech National Bank, which temporarily allowed the central bank so-called quantitative easing through the purchase of state bonds as well as private bonds, by the end of 2021. I would actually ask, like my colleagues, for several times now, the Governor, how the central bank has dealt with this authority, and intends to deal with it, because if this temporary option has not yet ended for the central bank, we should wait for an evaluation of how this competence has been generally handled. From my point of view, it is not necessary to adopt this as a permanent competence for the central bank today, a permanent possibility for the central bank, but to actually wait for that evaluation, and especially for that reason, and that is why we are all talking about it here and it is essential to point out that, even in an economic community, there is no clear consensus on the correctness and appropriateness of this power. Many economists, many experts, also draw attention to the considerable risks associated with this. These are the powers of choice, to decide which fund the central bank will save and which it will actually condemn to collapse, and we do not know the criteria by which the central bank will decide. We don't know them. There is a danger of maintaining a long-term zombie company, for example, and we are not sure that every other banking board will always make the right decisions. [[11.20 hours]] I remember here at last reading, for example, from my point of view, too long and too expensive intervention by the central bank against the koruna, which maintained artificially cheap work and maintained competitiveness, such as a low currency, which did not lead to pressure to increase productivity and pressure on higher added value. It maintained the Czech Republic's policy as a cheap assembly house. So, in this new power, will the Board always make the right decisions as we would have imagined? Another risk, mentioned by experts and mentioned by economists, quantitative easing is, for example, the risk of currency depreciation, thus depreciation of population savings and high inflation. So we are sure that at any point in time, the exercise of these powers will be in order and will not cause any other problems? I'm not asking that anyone can believe that the central bank will always do it exactly right, but we don't really have that certainty. Therefore, I would like to appeal to wait for the expiry of the amendment, which was adopted in a legislative emergency, and for the evaluation of the whole period, and only then to go back to that, to the possibility of quantitative easing, and to discuss this on the basis of knowledge gained with experience. It's really premature today. The second area I want to talk about is more medially interesting because it can really affect almost every one of our citizens, and these are new competences in the area of housing loans, precisely by setting binding mortgage credit indicators. The government, together with the central bank, is proposing a series of up to three indicators in the press, which is also very rare within the European Union. I would like to ask the Governor in this regard, I hope he will answer me, in which countries the central banks use all three credit indicators. Before the crisis came, we heard various warnings and concerns from central bank officials - I called it haunting here at second reading - that we are at risk of a mortgage bubble, that property prices are significantly overvalued over their real value and that the central bank must have competence to protect banks' financial stability against the mortgage bubble. It's always an old known tactic to argue so that public space gets spooked and that scared gives it new competence. The economic crisis has come much sooner than any of us imagined and planned, and it is far deeper than any of us could have imagined. I repeatedly see from public appearances that someone always gets out and points out the risk of a significant fall in prices for flats and houses. In fact, despite the fact that the crisis has been going on for a year, and although the Czech economy has experienced one of the deepest downturns in the history of the Czech Republic last year, the price of flats did not actually fall significantly, even because the crisis is a conservative investment on the one hand and also a certain stability for the lives of individual citizens. Because the problem in housing policy is particularly on the supply side, because it is insufficient. That's the reason for the high prices of flats. The problem is not on the side of excessive demand that the central bank wants to regulate. The second argument of the central bank for this proposal was financial stability, i.e. that we do not fall into the trap of a large number of outstanding mortgages. I want to ask the Governor another question, and that is the current share after that year of outstanding mortgages and some comparison with other states in the European Union. Because, according to the data available to me, the number of outstanding mortgages has not increased significantly, we are still around one percent. Yes, we can have fun last year that the moratorium helped. It certainly helps that commercial banks and individually argue payment with their clients. Thanks to the continued lockdown and the ongoing crisis, which increases financial problems on the part of citizens, this percentage may increase. But so far, it turns out there's no significant drop, and I hope it doesn't. But that is why I would like to ask the Governor in relation to this, what are the central bank's predictions, how he evaluates the current situation, and especially what is the current share of mortgage payments. This figure shows that it has not grown too much, and this has to be emphasized in this discussion that commercial banks themselves have been very conservative in providing mortgages and have not allowed any gambling with a mortgage bubble. It turns out that their own risk management works. [[11.30 hours]] So I'm wondering, Mr. Governor, why a recommendation isn't enough. Why the recommendations you made before the crisis, why the central bank's recommendation is not enough, why it must be a binding indicator and a binding matter. Nota bene in a situation when most banks really respect the recommendation, but the advantage of the recommendation is that, in individual cases, when assessing the individual situation of the applicant, its client, it may deviate from the recommendation if it allows them to manage the risks. In addition, the central bank is the bank's supervisory authority. This means that if a bank did not honor the recommendations and took too much risk that would threaten financial stability in some way, I assume that the central bank would recognize, evaluate and somehow proceed. As I was talking about the recommendations, let's look at the process of the central bank itself. At a time of economic growth, the central bank issued unprecedented recommendations, even in the course of the three indicators that, before the crisis, at a time of economic growth, significantly delayed the possibility of taking out a mortgage to middle-income people, and, as I said here, most banks honored that recommendation. At the time of the crisis, the central bank reduced the recommendation, released the so-called DTI indicator, debt ratio and net income ratio of the applicant, increased the mortgage value to 90 per cent and also increased the ratio of the total debt service to monthly income of applicants to 50 per cent. I hope I'm saying this right. I am very pleased that the central bank has taken steps to mitigate the recommendations, but what seems a little paradoxical to me is that the central bank has loosened its current, very restrictive recommendations in the crisis. I agree with the unwinding, thank you for the change in attitude, but I am actually pointing out a certain paradoxism of the situation. The proposal significantly strengthens the role of the central bank in the area of housing policy, and I would even venture to say that the government is moving decisions on the availability of housing to the central bank, because, of course, most citizens, if they want to buy their own housing, are taking a mortgage on it, and deciding whether they can or cannot, would in this case move to the central bank. I fear that if the central bank approached these powers very extensively, it would further complicate the availability of housing or increase its availability. The problem is that the central bank - the governor stressed this in past readings - so the problem is that the central bank will decide only from its point of view, i.e. taking into account the credit burden on the population and the financial sector. The governor here at first reading, and I'm going to repeat that because it's been over a year, he stressed that the central bank, central bankers, logically, cannot assess the lack of housing supply and the like. These are other factors that enter the availability of housing, that it is not the central bank's responsibility, but that is precisely the problem. Living from my point of view is a basis that cannot be decided by a single aspect in our country or, in particular, by a single aspect, and that is the credit burden of the population, but that is where the amendment is headed. If this amendment is adopted, it will decide on the availability of housing according to the central bank's financial decision-making. There are a lot of amendments that change the parameters of these competences, but if we only want to change the parameters of credit indicators, then we will actually agree to move the decision-making on housing availability largely to the central bank. Do we really want to say, colleagues, that we agree with this, but use it, central bank, just two out of three credit indicators or make more exceptions, perhaps for young people? I really believe that housing is such a basis for citizens' lives that we cannot let it be decided on by financial sector criteria in particular. Ownership housing is a form, and it shows today in crisis, some property security, because it is often more efficient for a citizen to invest in his own property, which he can sell in case of problems than to pay for lending a foreign property. Nevertheless, these competences are intended by central banks to regulate the demand for ownership of housing. But the need to live with it will not decrease, only demand will shift to the rental housing sector, where there is also a shortage of flats. So, as a result of this, the rent will grow, so the population's living costs will continue to rise and the room for citizens will be reduced, for example, to save up on the mortgage principal. And it may even happen that, when credit indicators are misdetermined and combined, many families will not reach a mortgage and will be held in the rental housing sector, although the mortgage payment would possibly be identical or lower than the rent. Even in this paradoxical situation, we can get into this situation if the credit indicators are wrong, and I stress that this will happen if the central bank is in charge, without our control, without the possibility of government intervention and without legislative power. The proposal to increase competences is a typical example of legislation where the scope for individual decisions of banks is narrowed down. The scope for the agreement is narrowed down by two independent entities, in this case banks and clients. I think that we should also allow commercial banks to assess each client's situation individually, assess its overall burden on debts, assess its financial situation, and that is what any commercial bank can do in its risk management. Our banking environment is very conservative, and as I have already said here, there are sufficient recommendations for them to follow in most cases as well, but there remains room for deviation according to some extraordinary individual cases. I also want to mention the discussed mitigation of indicators for people under 36 years of age. I am very pleased that the Committee on Budgets has adopted a proposal from fellow Martínek that only one of the applicants can meet this criterion, but I do not think that age is the only right criterion. Because what difference does it make when someone wants to secure their family and get property for housing at 35 years of age or 38 years of age? For example, it may be possible that someone inherited the land, and his financial situation allowed him to save up on the principal of the mortgage later. Why complicate things for him? If we were to talk about housing benefits, then maybe we should talk about the first mortgage. I don't think this is discussed enough either, which is why I'm joining the motion to return the amendment to second reading. Indeed, the only criterion - age - is not entirely true, although I understand the intention of helping young people in housing, we agree. And even in these cases, it plays a far more important role to assess the individual situation of a particular applicant than to try to get an applicant for a mortgage into certain directly ordered boxes. To worry about financial instability and the deterioration of the percentage of loans repaid, it must be said that in international comparison, the Czech Republic has achieved one of the best results in terms of payment morality within the European Union in the long term, which is merely a confirmation of a good assessment of risk and credit by commercial banks themselves. It is also, from my point of view, proof that banks are very prudent in assessing their clients and providing mortgages. [[11.40 hours]] As with quantitative easing, no one today knows how future central bank councils will decide on credit indicators and what will be important to them. So once again, there's a question for the future about who's gonna be guarding the central bank's independence. And I stress - I must stress this, even though I have already mentioned it - and I strongly point out one risk. In the event of the maximum use of these new competences, especially young families, but also a significant part of the middle class, may not reach the mortgage. And what does that do? Part of them will be looking for loans on a more expensive non-bank market, which will, of course, increase the risk of their insolvency. And as I said, when a large part moves into the rental housing sector, where there will be even more overpressure, and the rent price will increase, it may happen that, in the case of very strict setting of indicators, the rent can be more expensive than the cost of the mortgage itself. It's gonna be a moment that's gonna make people look for money where they can, and we can get into a dangerous spiral. What is worse for the financial stability of households and therefore the economy: to lay down rules by driving many people out of the banking market into the arms of various credit companies with much higher interest and a much greater risk to households themselves, because the acquisition of money will be more expensive and riskier for them, or will we allow commercial banks individually to assess their financial situation in order to obtain an affordable mortgage? So if we know that the banking sector works and the forms of recommendation are sufficient, please let us be conservative and let the assessment of the particular situation of a particular person on the bank that provides the mortgage. For this reason, I have tabled - and we will be voting on this today - an amendment which removes precisely the competence of credit indicators from the amendment proposal and thus retains the existing regulation that allows the central bank to make recommendations. Since the central bank is also a banking institution's supervisory authority, recommendations are honored as much as possible by the banking sector, which we could see before and in the crisis. It is only possible to derogate from the recommendation in individual cases after careful consideration of the risks. We can't really secure available housing by locating and complicating mortgage provision, not really. The housing situation is certainly not satisfactory, especially with regard to the availability and prices of flats. But the problem is not really on the demand side that the central bank wants to artificially push down - because that is how I interpret it wants these competencies - but it is on the supply side. There is a shortage of flats because the preparation of the construction of new flats is long. According to Doing Business, we're at 157th place. The expensive price is also based on all the different requirements for builders, all the different standards that have only increased in recent years and thus increased the cost of construction. More flats are really needed today, people don't start families at a later age, they live more single, there is more divorce rate, people migrate more - all of this is actually pushing demand up, but this demand doesn't decrease by regulating mortgages, it just really moves into the rental housing sector, where the rental price will also increase, which we can see, maybe in addition to some Prague specifics today, when flats that were originally rented through Airbnb got into the market, which is, from my point of view, a spike in the rental housing sector in Prague, but in other localities of the Czech Republic, we don't see any decline in rental housing prices. For this reason, I have tabled an amendment, for this reason I have spoken here. I believe that both the Governor's side and the Minister's side will be answered. Maybe he'll disprove some of my thesis, I'm ready for it. Please only so that we can actually discuss and not keep your speeches only to the end after the end of the debate, when we can no longer respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u28	I thank Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Now Mikuláš Ferjenčík, prepare Jan Řehounek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now comment on the amendments tabled to this press. I will begin with Amendment A1, which, if I am not mistaken, was submitted by colleague Tomáš Martínek, possibly by other colleagues from the Committee on Budgets. It is an amendment supported by the Committee on Budgets, supported by the pirát. What this is about: extending the youth relief so that only one of the applicants under 36 years of age will be sufficient to activate the relief for those who live in marriage or registered partnership. What's going on? it is a proposal that the income criteria for the provision of mortgages be more moderate in the case of younger applicants, even in the case of registered partnerships or marriages. The reason is simple. If there is a couple, they ask for a mortgage and it will be true that at least one of the people in that couple is the prospect of a future increase in income - which is the basic argument why limit income criteria for younger people - so in that case it is sufficient to be for one person, it is not necessary for both of them to do so. We believe that this proposal is perfectly logical, we just fear it is too narrow, but I will get to that later. For these reasons, we will certainly support this proposal. I am pleased that he has received the support of the Budget Committee, and I believe that he will also receive the support of the Chamber of Deputies. Now, proposal B1 of my colleague Munzar. This is a proposal that hides the complete abolition of the adjustment of credit indicators. This is where I get into some sort of disputation with my colleagues from ODS. We believe that this proposal is going too far. My colleague Munzar spoke of the fact that, although we have a major crisis here and while household incomes are stagnating, real estate prices are rising. However, this does not mean that it is a general principle. In 2008 and the follow-up crisis, we experienced a sharp fall in real estate prices by up to 20 percent in the Czech Republic, and a significant spike in real estate prices occurred in the Czech Republic as well. This is primarily related to the response of the banking sector to the crisis. At a time when interest rates were rising, which happened in 2008, if I am not mistaken, it obviously had an impact on the financing of state debt, but at that time the interest rates rose and real estate prices fell. On the contrary, in the current crisis, which is substantially different in nature, the interest rates of central banks have been reduced, the availability of finance on markets has increased sharply, and properties, as often safe port for investors, have become significantly more attractive, so real estate prices are rising sharply, although we have a major crisis here and household incomes are stagnating. [[11.50 hours]] However, the fact that this is exactly the case in this particular crisis does not mean that it will be the same in future crises that will undoubtedly come. We believe that the parameter loan-to-value, LTV, which limits the amount one can borrow against the value of the property it buys, is reasonable in itself and that both the historical experience of the Czech Republic and, for example, the example of Ireland, where it is a textbook example of the rupture of the real estate bubble, prove that it is appropriate to have this parameter, especially because of the protection of those debtors who, if they lose their jobs in the crisis, would have a problem to pay back. For this reason, we will not support Amendment B1; we believe that this is indeed part of the proposal by the Government and by the CNB, which makes sense, which is reasonable and is some compromise that we are prepared to accept. The next proposal is Amendment B2, also Mr Munzar, and there Mr Munzar proposes a reduction in the number of credit indicators from three to one, namely LTV. On the contrary, we agree with this proposal and support it. What's going on? This is the removal of DTI and DSTI parameters from the law, or debt-to-income and debt service-to-income, i.e. the cost of debt service against household income and the total amount of debt against annual household income. Indeed, we believe that these two indicators are already redundant, my colleague Martínek mentioned that in only one country in Europe, all three of these criteria are applied within the framework of mortgage market regulation, and we believe that they can be deleted and that banks really have more scope and incentive to evaluate the specific situation of individual clients. The situation really can be very specific, and I don't even dare to predict what all life situations could be with those applicants, and I don't think the legislator is even able to contain it and to invent one universal regulation according to our view will work too well. Just a specific example: typically it can be a self-employed person who has a flat-rate expense, and it will be difficult to determine how much the real income of the businessmen is. I've set an example here of the students on a doctoral scholarship and a number of other specific situations that may occur. In our opinion, banks really have enough apparatus and sufficient motivation to properly evaluate it. If we introduce the LTV criterion, which we agree with, then it will be possible to evaluate it, and if by any chance the person or the family were unable to repay the mortgage, in the worst case, they would just sell the property, pay off the part they owe from the real estate sale and start again in the rental apartment. We don't think that risk is actually significant enough to force us to regulate the entire market across the board with such strict parameters. So much for Amendment B2. I am now coming to Amendment B3, House Document No 4823, again the proposal of colleagues Munzar and colleagues Skopeček. This is about releasing the adjustment of the Czech National Bank's business and credit operations. This is a maintenance of the original version of the Act in the field of monetary instruments of CNB policy, which according to the petitioners are sufficient. We support this proposal, we believe that if it were really necessary to expand the powers of the central bank, this House will do so within a few days in a legislative emergency, as it did last year. We simply believe that the powers of the Czech National Bank have not been a problem to anyone for decades and that it has now been sufficient to radically extend its powers, especially with reference to the European Central Bank, which is supervised in a completely different way, where the Bank Board consists of the governors of euro area national banks, who are actually very independent, while with us the entire Bank Board is appointed by the President, we do not consider this massive extension of powers to be adequate. We believe that there are too many hypothetical reasons, too many 'what would have been if this had not been accepted', which we believe are simply manageable in the legislative emergency, which has already happened with a limited duration and there is no need to make it a stable part of the Czech National Bank's monetary instruments. For this reason, we will support Amendment B3. The next amendment is under number B4, House Document No 4822, the proposal again by colleagues Munzar and Skopeček, which is an extension of the volume exemption for mortgages from 5% to 10 percent. This is once again an amendment that we support as pirát. I have already mentioned this in Amendment B2, here the motivation is very similar, which means trying to cover the specific life stories. I have talked a lot about tradesmen with expense flats or flat-rate taxes where the Czech National Bank argues that banks will recognise bank movements as income proof, but these businesses can quite legally accept money in cash, so we do not see the reason to discriminate against these people in any way. Indeed, it is very difficult for those traders who have a flat-rate or flat-rate tax to determine how much their real income is, because what they have written in their tax return may not really correspond to the means that they have really available to pay off the property. For this reason, we support in particular the extension of the volume exemption for mortgages from 5 to 10 %. Indeed, we believe that businessmen are such a significant part of Czech workers that it is appropriate to take this into account in the wording of this law, and we believe that support could be found for this. Supposedly, the exception has already been lifted from 3% to 5%, which I welcome, but I still find it very little. There are between one and two million entrepreneurs in our country, so this is a very important group of people, and given that there are some five million workers in total and that the tradesmen make up a very significant part of the entire workforce, so we think that the 5 percent of the exceptions are not enough and it is appropriate to put the higher limit there, so we agree with the limit of 10 percent, which we believe will cover a wider range of limit cases. Therefore, as pirát, we will support proposal B4 by colleagues Munzar and Skopeček. [[12.00 hours]] I am coming to Amendment B5, with this proposal under House document 4821, again from Mr Munzar's workshop with Skopeček, concerning the extension of the youth relief so that only one of the applicants under 36 years of age will be sufficient to activate the relief, not all of them. You're probably wondering what the difference is from the design under the letter - now I'm sorry - A1, which covers something similar. The fundamental difference and, in our view, the reason why I consider the A1 proposal to be too narrow is that this time it concerns all applicants, not only those in registered partnerships or in marriage. Since about 50 percent of our children are born in unmarried unions, we do not really consider them happy if they are discriminated against in terms of access to mortgages. We just don't think it's right for 50 percent of families to discriminate and make their access to mortgages worse just because they don't have an official staff on their union. It's 50 percent of the families, and we think they should have the same conditions for asking for a mortgage as everyone else. For this reason, we will support this proposal. After all, I believe my colleague Martínek also presented him. I'll probably get to that in the next part when it comes down to it. We simply encourage the extension of youth relief so that one applicant under 36 years of age is actually sufficient. We don't think it makes sense to discriminate against unmarried couples. So it was the proposal of 5 colleagues Munzar and Skopeček, which we will definitely support as pirát. Furthermore, the C1 proposal is a proposal that I put forward. You will find it under the House document 7250. This proposal is quite essential from my point of view, and I would particularly ask the Governor here to actually engage in a debate with me, because I strongly disagree with the position given to me by officials, or representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, on the effects of this amendment. This proposal amends the Act on the Register of Contracts so that the Czech National Bank becomes a mandatory subject of the Act on the Register of Contracts. I really believe that this adjustment is quite appropriate, that there is no reason when state companies such as ČEZ or České dráhy publish contracts, when all authorities publish contracts, so that the Czech National Bank should be exempt from this obligation. Of course, I agree that some contracts should be exempted from this obligation, but this is, in our view, covered by the provisions in the Act on the Register of Contracts which exempt financial stability contracts from the scope of the Act on the Register of Contracts. Representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank argue that if a contract were to be concluded between the Czech National Bank as a creditor of the last instance and some private bank, that this contract would have to be published in the register of contracts and that it would lead to a rune on the bank, that is to say that clients in large numbers would ask for deposits, which could, of course, put the bank down. However, I absolutely cannot relate to this reasoning. The moment that publication of that contract could lead to a bank run, it may be quite obvious that such a contract concerns the financial stability of our banking system, because, of course, if a bank collapses due to the publication of that contract, financial stability is significantly disrupted. So I believe that this is more of a purposeful argument from the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank, who do not want the Czech National Bank to be subject to the Act on the Register of Contracts to be seen in the Czech National Bank's operating contracts. I do not think it is appropriate for the Czech National Bank to have any significant other position from other public institutions in terms of transparency. For this reason, I am very much asking for the support of this amendment. If the national bank and the Ministry of Finance really insist on their interpretation, please return to second reading so that we can actually propose an adjustment, although I believe that the current text is sufficient and that the justified exceptions are sufficiently covered there. Therefore, I am asking all of you to support Amendment C1 under the number of House document 7250. Another amendment tabled to this press is my proposal again. It concerns the abolition of the adjustment of monetary policy instruments as amended by the Act. This is an amendment under letter C2.1, House document 7251. This proposal is closely linked to the proposal B3, which I have already discussed. At the same time, this proposal corrects the B3 proposal in a legislative and technical manner while removing the monetary policy instruments that are newly added to the competence of the Czech National Bank. I have already talked about this several times, in any case I consider it such a crucial matter and such a fundamental new power that I will sum up the arguments once more. Indeed, we have had a valid law here for a year and several months, which temporarily extended the powers of the Czech National Bank. In our view, it is very appropriate to evaluate this law, to see to what extent the stock markets, sorry, to what extent new powers, for example in the field of stock or bond purchase, are being used by the Czech National Bank. See what new powers are needed for, what hypothetical scenarios cannot be covered by the regulation of laws, or in a legislative emergency. Without this evaluation, we really find it very unfortunate to approve this adjustment permanently. I would like to ask the Governor and the Minister once again to comment on this issue, which we have mentioned many times here in today's debate, on the extent to which the impact of these laws has really been assessed, on what new operations the CNB has been doing, which it has not previously done, why it is useful and why it is needed. Especially when these provisions are already approved in practice, it seems perfectly logical for us to actually verify that they are functioning as the legislator intended. So once again I appeal to this, please get off on this matter. [[12.10 hours]] The next amendment to which I will comment is the amendment under letter C and number 2.2. It's my proposal again. It is a proposal for a compromise solution that would allow, in my opinion, the consensus with the rest of the opposition, to move forward with this law. It is a proposal for a compromise that is designed to prolong the validity of the temporary adjustment in the Czech National Bank's financial markets for two years until the end of 2023. As I mentioned once before, we understand the attempt to expand the powers of the Czech National Bank in the crisis and to allow it some operations that would normally be non-standard, for example, in order not to increase interest on the repayment of government bonds. I remember when the issue of bonds took place in the spring of last year, so the Minister commended how the temporary law was adopted in an emergency, how it improved the opposition of the Ministry of Finance when selling government bonds, that we actually sold more of them than we planned, and at better interest than we were willing to accept, so it was a great success at the time. We believe that, perhaps in 2023, the crisis will be over and that there will be no need for one-off anti-crisis measures to extend permanently, but we are willing to offer a compromise, namely to extend the crisis solution by the end of 2023. There'll be plenty of room to evaluate it after the election. There will be sufficient room for a proper legislative process, at the same time it will reduce some uncertainty, and it will also enable what I have already talked about to evaluate the effects of the legislation adopted. Although we have doubts that this solution is correct, we are willing as a compromise to allow it to operate until the end of 2023, which is sufficient time for the possibility of negotiating legislation, as well as evaluating the current effects of the law, assessing how what works, or considering which institutes are needed, which are not. At the same time, it minimizes some uncertainty of markets and some nervousness of investors. So this is our solution to dealing with this law. We really think that this would be a solution that is functional in this House, and at the same time acceptable from our point of view to the Ministry of Finance and the Central Bank. I know, of course, that both the Governor and the Minister have a different opinion on this, but that is the responsibility of the majority in the Chamber of Deputies to take on this. For us, this is, in any case, a compromise proposal to deal with this law. The next amendment is under letter C and number 2.3. Mine again. It is a proposal which removes a legislative technical error in Amendment B3. I believe that this is only a legislative technical matter, so there is probably no need to look into it in more detail here. I have already made more extensive comments on the B3 proposal, so I will not delay. I am coming to the amendment under the designation D1, House document 4432 tabled by colleague Tomáš Martínek. This proposal is actually doing the same thing as the proposal by Mr Munzar and Mr Skopeček, which means reducing the number of credit indicators from three to one only. This is primarily about limiting the regulation of the mortgage market only to the loan-to-value, i.e. the ratio of debt to the property price. I've already made a bigger point here. In any event, the Committee on Budgets has agreed that draft B2 is probably more legislatively technically appropriate, for this reason it will be voted first. I am getting to Amendment D2. This proposal was tabled again by colleague Martínek. You will find it under House document number 4433. This proposal extends youth relief so that only one of the applicants under 36 years of age will be sufficient to activate the relief. This is a proposal identical to the proposal B5, which is probably not going to be voted on for this reason. I'm just going to mention that this is a proposal that we support, and it's about equalizing unmarried couples with married couples. Next up, I'm getting to design D3. That is the amendment under number 5517. This is a proposal to revoke the Czech National Bank's authorisation to establish a legal person to support the performance of its tasks. We believe that there is a risk of a weakening of supervision in this new power, for example, if a new legal entity has been established, which would need more participating owners. We believe that it is not entirely clear whether it would be covered by supervision rules such as those applicable to the Czech National Bank, so for precautionary reasons we recommend not to grant this competence to the Czech National Bank. Furthermore, there is Amendment D4 under House document 5518. Again, it is the proposal of fellow Martínek. He extends youth relief so that the age criterion will increase from 36 to 40 years. What's going on? The point is that younger people have a good perspective of increasing their income for the future, and usually at the beginning of their careers, there is faster growth in income than later. For these reasons, we consider the DTI and DSTI criteria to be too strict for this group of people, and we recommend moving the age criterion from 36 to 40 years so that even a wider group of younger workers can get into that exemption and have a better chance of obtaining a mortgage. Where did we get that 40-year line? This is the criterion that is identical with the State Investment Support Fund. Indeed, we believe that still people between the ages of 36 and 40 may be at that stage of their career, when their wages are rising rapidly and it is a shame to exclude them from the possibility of getting their own housing. This is the D4 proposal of my colleague Martínek, which you will find under number 5518. Of course, the pirates will support him. [[12.20 hours]] Furthermore, the proposal D5 under the number of House document 5520 by fellow Martínek. This is an extension of the youth relief so that only one of the applicants has the required age, which is at the same time increasing from 36 years to 40 years, will be sufficient to activate the relief. In other words, it is a compromise version of the previous proposal, which I was just talking about to apply only to married couples or registered partners, but it did not apply universally to all applicants - although we consider the broader version to be better, of course we are willing to accept the compromise. We know what the distribution of forces is here, that it depends on government MPs whether they will support this proposal. So D5 is a compromise version of D4. I beg you very much to support this proposal. There is also proposal D6, House document 7114 of my colleague Martínek, which introduces the obligation of the Czech National Bank to publish information on transactions pursuant to § 32 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b). What's going on? We believe that, at the same time, if there is a strong expansion of powers in the areas of share and bond trading, it is appropriate to increase the transparency of these trades dramatically. We have noticed that the European Central Bank is publishing a much wider scope of information than the Czech National Bank is about to publish. For these reasons, we have proposed to regulate this law in this direction. Transparency of these trades is really very important if those powers are so widespread. I therefore ask you to support this proposal by my colleague Martínek. The next proposal is under the designation E1, this is House document 5482. It's a proposal from my colleaguesRozvoral the Hrnčíř, and the Španěl. It is a proposal that extends youth relief so that only one of the applicants has the required age, which increases from 36 years to 40 years, will be sufficient to activate relief. It is therefore another version of the proposals that have been mentioned here in a number of cases. I think that these proposals are consensual within the opposition benches. I therefore appeal to the Government Members to support this adjustment as well. Of course, the pirates will support it. The last amendment F1 under House document number 5551 is mine. It is once again an attempt to launch adjustments to the Czech National Bank's business and credit operations, which is the same as the proposal B3, which is why I will no longer discuss it more closely, just to repeat that there are really no strong arguments for these new powers from our point of view. This means that I am very much asking for your support on the F1 proposal. So much for my opinion on the amendments tabled to this press. At the same time, I would now like to put forward a proposal to interrupt this press by 12.50 so that we can discuss paragraph 334, which, if I am not mistaken, is somewhat more consensual than this one. I see another one registered for the debate, so I'm making a motion to interrupt until 12.50. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u30	Yes, a procedural proposal has been made. I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. We will wait a little while for everyone to have a chance to come, and we will vote on the procedural proposal that has been made. I've heard the application for check-out. I checked you all out. Please log in with your voting cards again. We are ready for the vote. We are voting on the suspension of this point until 12.50, which is only when I recapitulate it is a bit of a special vote, because at 12.50 we have a fixed point of change in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll vote on it. I think we all understand what the outcome would be. Or if Mr Ferjenčík wants to modify this proposal, let us be more in line with the decisions already made by the Chamber of Deputies? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll modify the proposal to interrupt him by 9:00 tomorrow. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Sorry, until Friday, because it's the third reading. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u32	So it's Friday 9:00. Yes, that's voteable. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 218, 82 Members signed in for 26, against 47. The motion was not accepted. We continue to discuss this point. Some Members are now registered with factual remarks. First off, Mr Jan Jakob, then Mr Vojtěch Munzar, then President Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot of questions have been asked here in the debate, dozens of clear questions raised. And I've been expecting them to do the de facto thing, and it's clear to me that the Minister doesn't intend to discuss it with us. I guess she was speechless, which doesn't surprise me with her, I'm a little sorry about the governor, and I'm sorry about that in a human way. Therefore, Madam Minister, through Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also respond clearly and briefly to her clear statements in this debate. Here's what I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u35	Thank you. I would add the following to this. [[The MP has quieted again because of the constant noise in the hall.]] So much in brief. I think that, Madam Secretary, through the President, we are very understanding. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we are in Parliament, that is from the word parlare, that is to speak. You may have decided to rewrite the history of parliamentarism and to renegotiate your bill probably for its approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u36	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I want, through you, to respond to the performance of my colleague Ferjenčík. I do not have the space in two minutes to argue with everything he said, how he evaluated our amendments, yet I dare to mention one thing. He here at the beginning of his speech - and he argued with me - said that it is not the rule that the same value of flats remains in the crisis. I didn't say it like that, I was just proving that the problem isn't on the demand side, it's on the supply side. And that's why the price of the apartment is overvalued, or the price of flats, because the price of flats, of course, determines the market. And we can talk about how to proceed. I really do not think that the current situation, when the Czech National Bank can go in the form of recommendations, which are generally honoured by the banking sector, that this would be a significant problem, shows that, in the first place, banks honored it and, secondly, banks themselves were able to evaluate the situation of their clients individually. We can talk about this further, because, of course, when the economic crisis is over, our economy will need significant investments in the private sector, including housing construction, because - and individual studies show this, which say that one crown invested in the construction of new flats brings a total of three crowns into the economy. So it's actually binding demand by some binding indicators, and today we don't know how the central bank will use it in the future, ligating it by some central indicators doesn't seem right to me and ligating the demand that we also need, and we're going to need construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u38	Thank you. Before I give the floor to President Filip, only two information. Mr Jan Skopeček votes with replacement card number 17 and Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for work reasons for this afternoon's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. President Vojtěch Filip has the floor in a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I will propose, pursuant to Section 95a, that we continue to discuss third reading after 13:00 until 14:00, because I understand obstruction as part of parliamentary work, but I would like to draw the attention of colleagues who appear that some questions have been raised here at first reading, second reading, have been answered. I understand that some, although answered, do not yet have to perceive the content of the words that have been answered, but I do not think that we must be embarrassed in front of the entire nation by saying the same thing constantly as a circle.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u40	Thank you. There was a proposal that I can see as procedural. Of course, the fact that we have a lunch break from 1:00 to 14:30 is based on some political agreement within the Chamber of Deputies that we are holding, and I think it would be more appropriate to agree on a different policy procedure, but, of course, the proposal has been made, I will vote on it. The proposal is that we continue to discuss third readings today and after 13 o'clock, i.e. until 14 o'clock. Mr Marek Benda, with a comment on this vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u41	I would just ask the Vice-President very much to reconsider this proposal, because he is the Organizing Committee at one o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u42	Yes, that's right, it's an organizational committee, five minutes after the morning meeting. President Válek, also on this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u43	I totally understand. I'm just pointing out there's supposed to be a health committee at the time. Well, I hope it's cancelled... [[There are voices from the diaper.]] I'm not saying, I just want Professor Adámková to know, she's counting on it. Of course, the subject is complicated, I'm ready to help all those colleagues who have some activity at the time by taking an hour's break, it's the least I can do for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u44	Thank you. So now we will be voting on the proposal, as has been said, according to this proposal, to act after 13:00 until 14:00, the third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 219, 87 Members signed in for 53, against 29. The motion was accepted. And then we'll continue until 14 o'clock. It is now Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment, then President Válek's factual remark, and then Mr Munzar and Mr Skopeček's factual remarks, in that order. Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u45	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like, by your means, to respond briefly to my colleague Munzar, who spoke of the fact that real estate prices are falling not in all crises and that the problem of real estate prices needs to be addressed above all on the supply side. I understand this argument, however, I do believe that, in the case of the LTV parameter, the loan-to-value, or the loan amount against the property price, state regulation is adequate. It simply protects the debtor from losing his job and his ability to pay the mortgage at the same time and has to sell the property so that it does not threaten to fall into a debt trap at the same time. For this reason, I consider the parameter reasonable and as pirát we are ready to support it. I understand your arguments, but I really think it's time to protect those debtors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u46	Thank you. President Vlastimil Válek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u47	Thank you very much. It can be seen from this, and this, through Mr President, is my response to Mr Filip's technical remark on how problematic this is. You must realise that we are in half the composition, which may not be fully understood by the viewers, but it is for them and for you, as the President has spoken through the President, to those who are watching it, that there is always a different structure of Members in half. So those who were in the first may not be in the second and may not be in the third, which is why the questions are repeated. And if we don't get answers from them, then of course there's confusion. Take the fact that we don't have those who knew the answers today, and now there are two amendments against each other. You'd like to go about it, but it's hard for a doctor to want him to understand this complex issue. That is why I would very much appreciate it if experts and experts, and the Minister, from my point of view, is definitely a top expert, and I would no longer dare to say anything about the governor except that he is a top expert, and they spoke to me and helped me decide which of those changelings to lean towards. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u48	Thank you. Mr Vojtěch Munzar, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u49	Thank you. I know that we have already decided on the procedural proposal of Vice-President Filip. The House is, of course, a souvenir, but I respond to his words that accompanied that view. We have warned here several times that some questions should be answered. Some questions, you say, have been answered at first reading. Well, how could the question at first reading, Mr Vice-President, be answered, how did the Czech National Bank use the new competences that it temporarily has from the amendment of the law adopted in a legislative emergency when the first reading was discussed before the third law? Well, that's just not possible. So please don't tell me these questions have been answered. They haven't been answered. That's one. [[12.40 hours]] Two. I understand that you are in favour of this press, but there is simply no way in parliamentary democracy that opposition can be shut down by saying that we are building up. We have asked both the Governor and the Minister here several times to comment on this, because it is such a fundamental amendment that will really determine how the central bank will use its powers for several years in advance, and we really want to know the answers. And what you've really used against us here, I find it very unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u50	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, with a factual point, then Mr Tomáš Martínek, also a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u51	Thank you very much. I want, through you, to respond to Vice-President Filip. You know, for me, the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act is indeed a law of this term. I would like to say to you, Mr Vice-President, that I have organised two seminars in cooperation with the Vice-President of the Budget Committee Dolejš, where we have invited both representatives of the Czech National Bank and representatives of the Ministry, but we have even addressed a number of academics, professors of universities in economic policy or economics, and we have discussed the amendment to the Czech National Bank very carefully and in detail. We've spent a lot of time on this, and these college educators have spent a lot of time on it, and I really reserve that when we're discussing one of the most important laws of this election period, at a time when the Finance Minister and the Governor of the Czech National Bank who brought the law in here can't even once speak up and answer that the opposition should be accused of some obstruction. Mr Vice-President, make amends with the Minister, whom your Communist party supports in support of the coalition, tell her to perform, to discuss with us, and perhaps the discussion will be much worse. Whoever is here today is not the opposition that is debating in a matter of fact, but the Minister, who has not said a single word about the relevant questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u52	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek, a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u53	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to join my colleague Munzar here because there has been one single question from my speech, rather crucial to my decision, which has not yet simply been answered, whether the Czech National Bank has already exercised the powers that it temporarily has regarding the purchase of financial markets, new possibilities of quantitative easing, and if so, how it informs the public about them. If not, the guarantees the citizens have that they will be informed. Because here we really want to ensure that the Czech National Bank, when it already has this enormous power to calmly decide on hundreds of billions that can market in some way into companies that can belong to anyone, to dubious companies and so on, as the citizens of the Czech Republic, who are de facto guarantors of the Czech currency, the Czech National Bank, and so on, which they will be guaranteed to know that they will see what the Czech National Bank is doing with these operations, just as eurozone citizens see it in the case of the ECB, and they will be able to assess whether it is buying really good assets that are not purchased only on the basis of the fact that we need to save a friend who wants to get paid out of a company. We should ensure that, that is essential, because here we can really be dealing with an incredibly large amount of funds that citizens of the Czech Republic could lose, and I think none of us want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u54	Thank you. Mr Jan Skopeček, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u55	I have one more question for the governor this time. Before discussing this law, we voted in the Chamber of Deputies to be present at this point. I, of course, voted repeatedly, as in the past, for the governor to be here. I consider it polite, I will do it any other time, I consider it normal. But I want to ask the governor why he had the ambition to ask to be here when he hasn't answered any questions yet. If he is going to answer the conclusion, or is not going to speak at all, then I do not understand why we voted on his presence here when he has not yet responded to any initiative from Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u56	Thank you. Mr Jan Řehounek will now speak in the general debate. Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr. Jan Skopeček, will be ready, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u57	Mr President, Minister, Mr Governor, since it is 12.44 and I know that my speech will be longer than six minutes, when at 12.50 you would interrupt me on the basis of a fixed point, so I will rejoin the general debate after the end of that fixed point 12.50, because I would really like my contribution to be whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u58	Yes, I understand. However, if you spoke and I interrupted you, then, of course, after you returned to that point, you would continue your speech. I respect that decision of yours. President Bartošek with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u59	Thank you. I will follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Skopeček, by your means, because there have actually been a number of questions to both the Governor and the Minister. We want nothing more than to get an answer to the questions that have been asked here. In case you really go on a strategy that you are determined to remain silent and hope that somehow this will be paid off to the end and then the vote will be taken, then in the case of non-communication on your part, I just hope that as an opposition we will have to respond to this because we do not consider non-communication to be a solution or a way of dealing with the questions asked. So all I'm saying is, as the woods are called, it's coming out of the woods, and we're gonna have to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u60	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Well, actually, I'm lucky to be talking to my colleague Bartošek. Yes, as the woods are called, so the woods are echoing, so if we have classic parliamentary obstruction here, but classical parliamentary obstruction, don't be surprised that those who have to answer will answer in the final word. Maybe it's my profession, but it's always like someone in court has the final word and then the decision comes. And here's the debate, then the final word and then the vote. I understand your challenges, but since I've heard them so many times, I can't respond to them any other way than that I consider them an attempt to block this law. Please admit that you do not want it and that you do not have the strength to block it, only through parliamentary obstruction. Don't tell me it wasn't here or it wasn't. The press is number 532. We're almost at 1200, and you're saying there was little time and little discussion? It's a lie! A normal lie! And I'm convinced that we don't have to respond to the lie by saying the things that have been said here forever. Moreover, and I would like to say this, please, since 1995, since the adoption of the Rules of Procedure Act, there has been a clear agreement on how the debate is going at first reading, at second reading including general and detailed and at third reading. That you are having a different discussion from a third reading where you can put an amendment only legislatively technically or about a number, that is not the problem of the Rules of Procedure, that is your problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u62	Thank you. Now a factual remark from Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, then other colleagues with factual remarks are registered, but we will see what we can do before 12.50. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u63	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Filip, who here speaks of asking the same questions over and over again, but he just isn't right. This is a fundamental issue, and this is an evaluation of the functioning of new powers so far. We simply have a law that applies, which has significantly extended the CNB's powers, and we are interested in how the Czech National Bank uses these new powers, and unlike you, we do not all have priority rights here. So if Mr. Governor and Madam Secretary answer us in the final word, it's not a discussion. Because the discussion is when you can respond to the previous speaker. But the moment you can't react, there's no way to discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-002-328.u64	Thank you. Since it's 12:50 p.m., I'm interrupting this point right now. We will return to it after we discuss the point firmly placed on the basis of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies. It's a point number.
