ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u1	532. Information of the Government on conditions for entry into schools Now, according to normal custom, the Government's representative should take the floor and present her position. However, there is no government representative who is able to deliver an opinion, so I will now give the floor, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to the appellant, who is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who will also become rapporteur if she agrees. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u2	Thank you. I'd like to ask the House for peace first, would that be possible?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u3	Yes. I agree with you, and I also ask your colleagues to remain calm. We are already negotiating, please sit in your benches, interrupt your debates that are not related to the current point. Especially my colleagues in the right side of the hall, I would ask them to settle down and interrupt...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u4	Thank you. Well, hello. Thank you for the floor. I am this point... I've placed this point because I think - and I'm gonna ask for some peace, if I may ask again...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u5	I understand, and I will ask the House again for peace. We are already negotiating, we have several points which the House has decided to place at this time, and I think that there is a will to discuss them, so please don't complicate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u6	Thank you for... So let me imagine this point. These are the conditions for entering schools. I'm sure everyone like me has full e-mails of complaints, questions from parents, teachers, directors, pupils and so on and so on. That's why I placed this point. I'm very sorry for the boycotting from the YES side, who deliberately took a ten-minute break. But okay, by 1:30 p.m., we'll at least tell you what we wanted to say here in the House. I'm also sorry that Minister Plaga isn't here, who announced yesterday that he wouldn't come, that he might have something else to do or that he would be excused. In short, it is not here, which I consider complete contempt for the Chamber of Deputies. What is it that people don't like about school admission conditions? Well, they don't like that their kids have to be tested twice a week, they don't like that they have to wear drapes. If I take the logic of things, the child comes to school in the morning, is tested, has a negative result of an antigen test, which we still know isn't 100%. Tests are poor quality, and even these tests have not been certified. Parents don't even know what these tests are made of, what they contain, and so on. Okay, the baby comes to school, it's tested, it's negative. Now the question is, why does the child have to sit in that mask or the respirator all day or with the protection of his mouth? All day, even though the morning is negative? It doesn't make any sense. Consider that school education is until the end of June, there is no air conditioning in schools. Here's your air conditioning in the Chamber of Deputies. Schools are not air-conditioned, classrooms are not air-conditioned at any school. So, even in the heats, the heats in June, May, when it's nice, are we really gonna force the kids to sit in their cloaks all day? I don't think it's quite right. There are countries in Europe that have a completely different approach. In Belgium, for example, to give an example, they don't wear drapes at the first stage, they only have lunches in classrooms, increased hygiene measures, ventilation. This is one of many examples. We can ventilate in the Czech Republic, but we also have to test children in schools twice a week. Many parents don't even send their children to school, because if you want to test them or allow them to test at home, which some schools have allowed at this time, but they have sanctions, they are threatened, some have been dismissed. I'm talking about the Director of Semil, who I really appreciate. I also sent him my support because I don't understand why this man was removed from his post. If we take the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, there is Article 33 - everyone has the right to education. School attendance is compulsory for the period laid down by the law. Citizens have the right to free education in primary, secondary schools according to the skills of the citizen and the possibilities of society also in universities. In short, everyone has the right to education, and I think that children whose parents refuse to test children should also be allowed into schools. I've been through a case of a lady who told me that her baby isn't being run for high school entrance exams because she refuses to test her kid. Is that why he is not allowed to continue his education? A particular question, then, when we are promoting education for everyone in a democratic country, how is it that this child is not allowed to go to high school entrance exams? How is that possible? How is it possible that a parent in a democratic country cannot decide whether he wants to test his child and, under these conditions, send him to school or not, because some schools do not even allow distance teaching to those children whose parents want their child to not go to school under these conditions? It seems completely pointless to me, and for this reason I wanted to hear the Minister's position as well. I had a longer performance here, but I still want my colleague here, who we have a joint resolution with. One resolution that my colleague here will present to you is for unconditional admission to schools. If it went through, it'd be great. I think my parents would be thrilled and the world would be normal again. Then we have one more resolution, that's compromise. I would only introduce this resolution to you after my colleague's speech, because we are really pressed for time. So, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u7	Thank you, and now, with priority right, is the Member of the Rozvoral, then Mrs Majerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak briefly to this point on the conditions for the entry of children into schools. The SPD movement takes a clear position on this issue, which takes this form: all pupils and students must return to schools without any further conditions. I appeal to all Members present, to our government and to the Prime Minister of this Republic, Andrej Babiš. Open our children's schools again. It is shameful to open shops when measures are loosened up, but most schools remain closed. Compared to other European countries that also had to face and are still dealing with the consequences of the coronavirus pandemic, the Czech Republic has the longest closed schools. In the last year, schools have only been fully open for 10 weeks and, for example, universities have not opened at all. The teaching of children was carried out only on-line, which was not beneficial for most pupils. At this time, adequate practical instruction was not provided for pupils of all types of secondary schools and schools, which is very important for the performance of their future profession. The distance education at most universities did not contain the necessary quality, so the students completed two semesters, i.e. the entire academic year 2020 to 2021 by online teaching, including exams and credits. Colleges so strongly hope that the defenses of bachelor's and diploma thesis, which have been planned since May, and the subsequent final exams will take place in standard mode, only in compliance with sanitary measures. The absence of social contacts also adversely affects the psychics of children who are locked at home in computers in the circle of their closest and with their friends keep communication only in the form of computers and mobile phones. This was also a serious psychological burden for parents who had to stay home with their children. [[13.20 hours]] Moreover, this whole state of emergency, accompanied by hopelessness and helplessness, was negatively enhanced by the measures presented by individual ministers, who, based on the evaluation of the pandemic situation, have always established a further procedure that has changed several times in a short time. Within the Ministry of Education, we have also heard a number of such decisions from Minister Robert Plaga. At that time, how did the directors and operators of all types of educational establishments feel, who always tried to have everything ready to open the educational institutions, and eventually did not? Recently, the problem of ensuring the testing of pupils and other workers ensuring the operation of these institutions has been addressed, the results of the testing have pointed to the fact that schools are much less at risk than workplaces. I will mention the results of testing at schools involved in the pilot study. These were schools in Prague 6, 7 and 9 with PCR tests, where the number of infected children was around the promile of the total number. Pilot study results have confirmed that schools are safer with PCR tested, accurate results and saliva tests for children are comfortable. I'm gonna run more tests on kids in schools. Prague reported 15 positive tests from more than 35,000 tested pupils. Central Bohemia Region 23 positive tests from almost 57 000 tested pupils, Moravian-Silesian Region 15 positive tests from almost 35 000 tested pupils. All types of tests across the country on average revealed only promile infected children. Based on this data, our belief was that it was unnecessary for schools to close for more than six months. We therefore require that all pupils and students return to schools as soon as possible after the necessary preparation of schools for their full opening, without any further conditions, without drapes and testing children to perform only on a voluntary basis using non-invasive tests. Another point I have to make about the children's return to school. As a SPD movement, we also require the opening of all sports facilities for children, along with the opening of all schools. It is an indoor and outdoor sports area where it would be possible to sport children even in larger groups for compliance with the necessary hygiene. Kids deserve it after so long. Finally, I will repeat that I, like all Members of the SPD movement, demand the return of all children to schools and sports grounds. Now let me read for the SPD a resolution that reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Czech Government to ensure the return of all pupils and students to schools as quickly as possible and in a sports area without any further conditions." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u9	Thank you. Please refer the motion for a resolution to the rapporteur and also to the Presidents of the other clubs so that we can discuss the detailed debate more quickly afterwards. And now, please, Mrs Majerová, and another will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u10	Have a good noon. I don't have much time left, but I won't forgive myself for commenting, though I understand and respect some customaryness in the House. But so today, when it was supposed to be the opening of a retail store, which was boycotted by ANO representatives - I understand - have a legitimate right to do so - and then the point that Tricolore is the only one repeatedly proposing and will still propose, and that is the opening, unconditional opening of schools for children, colleagues with priority rights will retain for their exhibition under the SPD. I couldn't forgive myself for this. And now I'm getting to the point that I want to read to you here, because those are facts, no impressions. I have a feeling that I do not have a chance to finish this because our point has only been included for a limited period of time, but I will assign this resolution which is essential and which we want to adopt, and then I will go into the text itself and into the judgment, a completely groundbreaking judgment by the court of the potty in Germany on the basis of the largest, absolutely solid data and analyses concerning the infection of children and so on. So the resolution of the Tricolore, which I would like to vote on, is: "I. Cancel the requirement to carry out tests of students of Czech schools as a condition for presence at the presentation course. II. Cancel requirement to wear drapes or respirators in all areas of school facilities. III. Allow all pupils of Czech kindergarten, primary, secondary and university to immediately return to the presentation class. Everyone and no conditions." And now I'm gonna start with what I wanted to start with. Ladies and gentlemen, we, Members of the Tricolore, repeatedly appeal that the condition of a negative test twice a week and the condition of wearing a drape throughout the time of the child's presence in school is not only completely unnecessary, but seriously damaging the health of our children. Following the judgment of the District Court in Weimar, the statement I just gave - and here I am holding the sentence and I can give it to anyone at any time - is no longer merely a qualified opinion, but a clear, irreversible fact, confirmed by expert opinions of leading German doctors and epidemiologists. I hold here the German original - and the Czech translation - by profesor doktor Christof Kuhbandner, who is based on the judgment in Vienna. All of my following claims are proven in this opinion and the hard data that no one has with us is clearly demonstrated. If anyone has any doubts about this, I will be happy to provide him with the whole text so that he can verify it, either printed or in the form of an e-mail. If you want to continue to insist on the condition of tests and wearing masks for our children, then it is fair to tell their parents that there is absolutely no evidence from randomized controlled studies that masks or respirators prevent the spread of infection. The results of randomized tests warn against using cloth masks or respirators. So far, the only extensive randomized control study suggests that respirators may, on the contrary, increase the risk of infection. The increased risk of infection caused by maladministration in children outweighs the benefits which, according to randomised controlled studies, are low to non-existent. Infections are quite rare in schools. This is simply because extensive meta-analysis shows that children under 12 years of age in particular are less likely to become infected and spread virus, less often than adults. The likelihood of infection in a asymptomatic person, which is the secondary rate of infection, is shown to be 0.7 percent. In fact, many data confirm that there are almost no infected children or diseases in schools. The current figures from Austria are particularly interesting when it comes to wearing masks or respirators, because in primary schools breathing protection is not carried and at the same time three times a week rapid tests are being tested. For these reasons, it is relatively easy to estimate the number of infected pupils. In the week from 22 to 28 February - this is the latest available set of all data - only 0.08 percent of the rapid tests in primary schools were positive. The probability that an infected pupil without masks or respirators in schools would infect someone is so small and according to extensive contact monitoring studies is 0.5 percent - 100,000 primary school pupils would therefore have to wear a drape or respirator to prevent one single infection a day, 100,000 pupils per infection. [[13.30 hours]] In one week, more cases of children and adolescents with physical diseases associated with wearing masks and respirators have been reported than the total number of cases of children and adolescents with positive results of SARS-CoV-2 tests. At the same time, it should also be made clear that long-term wearing of a drape causes these serious and proven complications and risks in children: firstly, accumulation of viruses and bacteria on a drape or respirator, viruses, bacteria and fungi can accumulate on masks or respirators and be inhaled over and over again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u11	Madam, I'm going to have to interrupt you. Complete the sentence if necessary, please, and we will have to address another point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u12	I still have here because I have a complete, brief translation, so I'm going to finish it - and I'm going to read it here, because we're going to still propose that point - that I would like our resolution to be registered and voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u13	I understand that. I think the resolution has been registered. If we get to the vote, that's another question. But now I must interrupt you. Before I give another word, I note that Mrs Hyťhová is on the verdict, Mrs Majerová has been interrupted, and Mrs Nevludová and Mr Nacher are on the ground. Now I have to interrupt this point and we should get to another point, but I see that the Member of Rozvoral has called for priority rights, so I will give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would like to rely, through you, Mr President, on the previous speaker, with the fact that I have been exhibating here. It was not an exhibition, but only a speech by a Member under the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-23-ps2017-098-08-006-532.u15	Thank you and now, in line with how we have approved the programme, I am opening a point
