ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u1	199. Recognition of antibodies to COVID-19 I ask that the appellant take the floor on this point, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, who, if she agrees, will also become rapporteur on this point. Agreed. Please, plaintiff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u2	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to ask for peace. Unfortunately, he's not here at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u3	I'll try. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing with a fixed point and I note that, in addition to the introductory words, I have a number of applications with priority rights, respectively, with the opinions of Members' clubs. If you want to discuss another topic, please in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I am very glad to have the opportunity to speak on a very medialized topic here today, and that is precisely the recognition of antibodies against COVID-19. [[Noise doesn't stop.]] I'm really gonna ask for peace, 'cause that's really undignified, this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u5	My colleague, leave it to me. If you just shut up, I'll take care of it. [[Member: Okay.]] Shut up, please. Once again, don't make me name the individuals to the left to the right. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u6	Thank you very much. Let's do it again. I am glad that we have met here because citizens are interested in how it will be with the recognition of antibodies against COVID-19. As I said here on Tuesday, there is a big problem that our Czech Republic still does not recognise antibodies and, for example, neighbouring Austria recognizes antibodies, so the argument of the Minister of Health, who unfortunately is not here and apologizes for serious family reasons, which I understand is therefore inaccurate because there are countries that recognise this. Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, SARS-CoV-2 antibodies either exist or not. I believe we all agree that these antibodies exist. They can be created in the blood of each of us either naturally through the loss of the disease or through vaccination. Their quality and ability to protect the person concerned from the disease is completely comparable. To put it simply, the antibodies obtained following the disease are protected by the subject in exactly the same way as the antibodies obtained from the vaccination. Many experts even claim that the naturally acquired antibodies protect the subject even better than the antibodies from vaccination, but let us leave that aside now. In any case, at this point, there is no reason why people with antibodies created by underwent vaccination should in any way be favoured against people who have naturally formed antibodies after a disease. If we do so, we discriminate against these people. I'm afraid I can't find another word. If we continue to encourage these people to undergo vaccination, we can even endanger their health and life. This is confirmed not only by scientifically accepted conclusions, but also by a practical case from practice. In order not to tell me that I'm making up a theory, I'm going to give you one particular case from the media. This is the case of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš Vivien's teenage daughter, whom her doctor did not recommend to receive vaccination, precisely because of the high level of antibodies in her blood. This fact itself confirms two facts. First, that we can measure the value of antibodies in the blood, and second, that, in case of a higher level of antibodies in the blood, vaccination is a major threat to the health of such an individual. As I said before, a positive antibody test is sufficient in the neighbouring Austria to demonstrate the infectivity of a particular person. For a period of three months from the positive test, these persons shall be regarded as non-infectious. And I ask: What reasons lead us to believe that this approach is not possible in the Czech Republic, a few kilometers from Austria? I can only think of two. First of all, it's too expensive. Yes, it's expensive, but given the amount of money our government wasted through the window for overpriced purchases of tests and protective medical aids, it's basically a drop in the sea. Therefore, there is no rational reason at this time for non-payment of antibody tests if we are paying for a PCR test or vaccination. Second, the government of the Czech Republic has become an agent of pharmaceutical companies and forces citizens of the Czech Republic to undergo vaccinations, with the fact that it completely discriminates against people who already have antibodies after the disease they have suffered and at the same time threaten their health. However, neither of these reasons can be accepted. The first reason completely lacks logic and legal consequences for specific responsible persons in the case of the other person's validity I prefer not to imagine. From the above, it is evident that there is no rational or scientific reason not to recognise a test for antibodies after a disease of COVID-19, a demonstration of the infectivity of a specific person comparable to evidence of an underwent vaccination or a negative PCR test. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever raises their hand against my proposal today, you have it all on your desk - no one can say that I didn't give it to him, you have it all on your desk - says to all citizens of the Czech Republic who lose their covid and have enough antibodies in their body to protect them from further infection, right in your eyes, quote: "We are not interested in your health. In the interests of pharmaceutical companies, we will force you to inoculate, even if it can seriously affect your health." That's it, dear friends. When you decide how to vote, you should be aware of this, along with all the consequences that your decision may have for these citizens. [[10.10 hours]] Now I dare to read the resolution that everyone has on your desks. Motion for a resolution: "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government of the Czech Republic to issue all restrictive measures under Act No. The Coll., or pandemic law, recognised the presence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the blood as one of the criteria demonstrating the infectivity of the person concerned. A valid positive test for the existence of SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in the blood shall be considered as proof of the infectivity of the person concerned in the blood of the person concerned as fully comparable to a confirmation of the underwent vaccination or with a negative PCR test for the presence of SARS-CoV-2 in the blood of the person concerned. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic obliges the Government of the Czech Republic to issue all restrictive measures under Act No. 94/2021 Coll., or pandemic law, considered persons under 15 years of age to be persons with existing antibodies to SARS-CoV-2 in the blood." I have already given you enough assurance on the first resolution, and I would now like to explain to you the second resolution concerning persons under 15 years of age. So what is the justification, and what led me to this resolution? The immune system of adults and children, as we know, varies considerably. This is a notorious fact, but what is less known is the fact that the immune system of children fights viruses in a completely different way than the immune system of adults. In adults, antibodies are fighting against the virus that their immune system has developed during their lives by either encountering the virus or by developing these antibodies in the blood by vaccination. Since SARS-CoV-2 is a new virus and the immune system of the elderly has not yet met it, antibodies could not have been formed in their bodies. This is why this virus poses a significantly higher risk to people over 60 years of age, and I think we all agree on that. In children under 15 years of age, CTL cells, or cytotoxic lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, are the main element of the immune response. These cells can reliably identify and destroy viruses with which the child's organism has not yet encountered. For this reason, the SARS-CoV-2 virus also poses no risk to our children of major health complications, which we have also verified by testing. This fact is therefore the reason why we have found no significant number of children with SARS-CoV-2 in blood in schools during massive testing, which by the way our citizens have already cost several hundred million crowns, in the previous school year or in the beginning of this school year. A total of 111 positives per million children, of which, by the way, the false positives of the test are about 70 percent. Dear friends, let's stop lying in our pockets here, and let's finally face it, schools are simply not the source and focal point of the plague, as Mr. Flégr's alarmists screamed into the newspaper a few months ago. Covid doesn't threaten children, and children don't threaten our seniors, as I sometimes misread in the media. The really important message is the fact that if children undergo vaccination, a vaccine is injected into their bodies, which creates antibodies in their blood against the specific mutation of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Even if we look back on the fact that we now know that the current vaccine does not prevent the disease and transfer of the delta variant, which, of course, you can all read, we cannot ignore the fact that if children are infected with other, perhaps more dangerous mutations, their immune system will not fight against this new variant using a CTL cell, but with antibodies produced by the vaccine, which are highly likely to be completely ineffective in this fight. This fact, that is, an effort to inoculate persons under 15 years of age, or children, can thus very really pose a serious threat to our children's health, even in the coming months and years. If there are serious health problems and complications for our children, then it will only be because you, dear friends, have pushed them into vaccination. These conclusions are therefore based on the above. First, children under the age of 15 do not need any antibodies in their bodies to protect against serious COVID-19 disease, whether obtained by losing the disease or receiving vaccination. Two. Any campaign stimulating children or their parents to undergo vaccination is completely unnecessary, as it does not increase the protection of the so-called risk group, which I mentioned, for example, seniors, and at the same time is potentially dangerous to the health of our children. CTL cells contained in children under 15 years of age provide better protection against serious disease COVID-19 than antibodies that would be obtained by losing disease or vaccination. For this reason, it is entirely appropriate to treat all children under the age of 15 as persons who are equally protected against the virus, or perhaps even better and better than those with existing antibodies in the blood, either after a disease or vaccination. In the light of all these circumstances, which I have already mentioned here, the proposal is therefore fully justified by me and I present to you this resolution on the subsequent vote, on the basis of which each of you will be responsible for the future state of our children, including yours. That is the justification for my two resolutions, which, ladies and gentlemen, are all on your desks in all the members' clubs. I would just like to point out that in the past, both Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and President Miloš Zeman have spoken for the approval of antibodies. Everything you read in the media, and even though you are reading articles, suggests that we should really start thinking with our head and do something to bring common sense back here, because I feel like it's gone a little bit. Otherwise, I took it as evidence, it won't be visible, but it's a laboratory examination by an unnamed lady who was willing to send it to me. For your information, this lady had a coronavirus a year ago, she doesn't have a single dose of the vaccine, and her antibody parameters are: higher antibody levels - 197 has a number. I have it in black and white, I showed it to the minister on Tuesday - 197, a higher antibody value. I've got it right here, it's from the lab, madam, you can take a look at it yourself. [[Towards the ANO benches.]] So I'm gonna do it again. I think that the will to recognize antibodies - and I would like you not to twist your head, you can then comment on it - here it is. I think we all agree on it, and I would like to ask you to do so, because the Supreme Administrative Court has also dropped this, and I think that we are a country that should be governed by the courts, if we have them here, as the court decides, then we should probably follow it. And if the court said it was illegal and totally illegal for people with antibodies not to be recognized for the infectivity, then, dear friends, something is wrong! So that's about all I have to say at this point. I will be happy for any kind of debate, because believe it or not, the citizens of the Czech Republic will certainly look at this debate or look at it after the negotiations have ended. And by the fact that the Minister of Health is not here, and I apologize to him because he has apologized to me properly, so I would like to ask Mr Brabec on behalf of the Minister of the Environment if he could give us an opinion from the Ministry of Health and really justify enough, despite what I have said here, the arguments as to why the antibodies are not accepted. I think our citizens are interested. So, at this point, everything and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u7	Thank you, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová, for her opening words. Before we continue with the presentation of the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, who is responsible for the decision of the Czech Government by the resolution of 16 September this year, I will read the apology received by the President of the House, namely . Vojtěch Munzar, Mr. Apologizes for the whole day, and a colleague Radek Zlesák apologizes from 11 to 14 hours. Now, then, the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, under the authority of the Government on this matter. I'm opening the debate and you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. As has already been said, on behalf of Minister Vojtěch, who is truly excused for serious family reasons, I will give you the Minister's opinion, the opinion of the Ministry of Health, and I hope that it will be sufficient for you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Health does not question and never questioned the immunity against covid resulting from the disease suffered. It is merely that the laboratory methods used at the same time, which aspire to the assessment of immunity against covid, are not sufficiently standardised. Therefore, it is very debatable whether they can be used as a basis for deciding whether an individual is infected only on the basis that a certain level of antibodies has been measured, but there is no evidence that the covid disease has been experienced in the past. Knowledge of covid disease develops as well as the methods of diagnosis and treatment of this disease are specified. For clear diagnosis of covid disease in order to be internationally recognised, the need for an infectious agent, i.e. SARS-CoV-2 virus, either by PCR or antigen test applies. If this condition is not met, this is not a definitive evidence of disease. This also applies to the testing of the antibodies themselves, while mere antibody positivity says that the individual is highly likely to have encountered SARS-CoV-2 virus and has an immune response to it, but the diagnosis cannot be considered as confirmed within the meaning of the definition. Moreover, since we do not know when the disease occurred, we cannot predict how long the immune response will still be sufficient. So far, six months after the onset of the disease is considered a safe time from the loss of the disease, i.e. the time during which the individual is protected, although in most individuals the immunity to infection is likely to last longer. However, there are also people who have a weakened immune system, such as old people and people with impaired immunity as a result of illness or treatment of disease, in whom immunity disappears considerably earlier after infection. In addition, anticovid antibodies are only one of the immune response parameters against covid, and it is known that even people without proven antibodies can have immunity, especially children and young people. Moreover, we do not know the safe cut-off for antibodies, where it could be claimed that the individual is actually protected, and given the individual rate of antibody decline, we do not even know how long it will be protected. Various studies are known and it is good that antibody research is still ongoing, as it is still not clear how to standardise antibody testing to be applicable to routine clinical practice and to establish general antiepidemic measures. In addition, in a number of these antibody studies, it is a mixture of individuals who have experienced the disease and those who have had only random antibody positivity, in some and those who have been vaccinated. Therefore, the result of antibody testing alone without a clinical context may be misleading. For example, an unscathed individual with positive antibodies, but initiating oncological or immunosuppressive treatment may be a decision not to inoculate itself directly in life. The same applies to seniors. Moreover, there is already evidence that individuals who are not vaccinated against covid have a greater risk of disease and death if they have to undergo major surgery. It is clear that many of the cited studies are further successful steps to achieve standardization of antibody testing, but they are still missing, so in the international context the absolute corelate, the so-called protective threshold for antibody levels, has not yet been established. This threshold is called for the use of antibodies not only in the assessment of individual immunity but also in the evaluation of the effectiveness of vaccines. This is undoubtedly the main reason why so far the vast majority of countries have not allowed themselves to test antibodies, which are also often carried out in unaccredited laboratories and various methods, to equalise vaccination and proven disease plus six months. [[definition see above]] Moreover, the recognition of antibodies alone could make it appear in laymen that the optimal level of immunity can only be achieved by losing the disease, which could be misleading especially in elderly and immunocompromised individuals. In doing so, it is known that the highest level of immunity to virus variants is available by combination of infection and vaccination. The vaccination itself and the evidence of the infection itself are equivalent in the induction of an effective immune response, and in particular the protection against the severe course of the disease. However, we must take into account that the acquisition of natural immunization carries a high risk of death and that 20 to 50 percent of patients suffer from long-term and permanent consequences compared to vaccination, where the side effects of the vaccine are overwhelmingly transient and serious adverse reactions occur extremely rarely. [[1: 100 to 1: 50]] [[0,0016 %]] Therefore, in order to achieve optimal immunization, we should encourage vaccination in those who have experienced the disease and expect those who have been vaccinated to strengthen their immunity in addition to possible re-vaccination and possibly natural infections, which will not endanger them, as they are protected against severe progression. There are currently practical recommendations for the implementation and interpretation of serological testing of antibodies that reflect the state of knowledge in the field of investigation of antibodies against covid. This recommendation states that the indication of antibody testing against covid is only the following: differential diagnosis of covid and postcovid from the doctor's indication, reconvalescent plasma donor examination, seroprevalence studies, i.e. epidemiological studies, and research in particular for the purpose of determining the effectiveness of vaccines. It is not recommended to use antibodies for the evaluation of individual immunity investigated and for the decision on vaccination. Antibody recognition can be seen as an effort to accommodate a group of people who do not want to be vaccinated. It's their full right. However, please consider whether it is worth deciding politically on the recognition of antibodies at the price of the above-mentioned consequences, including an increase in death as a result of the covid. The Ministry of Health will certainly be the first to recognise this parameter as soon as it is standardized on an international scale and therefore the confirmation of protection against covid will be applicable in all states, in agreement with evidence-based medicine and based on good laboratory practice in accredited laboratories. The following can therefore be recommended at present: use antibodies within differential diagnostics from the indication of a physician who, even in the context of clinical image, is responsible for diagnostic conclusion and subsequent recommendations. If there are proven antibodies against covid without evidence of covid, it is recommended that the single dose vaccine - currently Janssen - be administered preferably. Further investigate antibodies in donors of reconvalescent plasma and support research in the role of antibodies in the determination of immunity against covid and effectiveness of covid vaccines. On 13 September 2021, a meeting took place at the Ministry of Health in the order of the second round table on the topic of the recognition of antibodies. The results of a seroprevalence study were presented where it was said that the best protection provided by the disease and vaccinations lost was already the first dose. After the sixth month after losing the covide, however, the likelihood that a person who has suffered from the disease can infect others, even though he himself is still protected, especially against the difficult course of the disease. There was a discussion as to whether or not to take the positiveness of antibodies to the equivalent of the disease suffered. At present, they agreed that, however, this still comes across the limit of the method of antibody testing itself, i.e. the value that would mean clear protection against the disease, and the investigation methods differ between individual laboratories in a fundamental quality and type of antibodies investigated. Without clinical examination, the result of antibodies cannot be interpreted at all. It is therefore appropriate to continue the serological studies, to use tests which are of high quality in terms of GLP and generally recognised, to evaluate optimal anti-spike-RBD antibodies in the IgG and IgA classes. I believe those who know what's going on, so you understand. [[10.30 hours]] Finally, it was concluded that we do not currently have sufficient information to allow antibodies to be used for the covid passport, as well as six months after the proven covid disease or after vaccination. It is similar to other countries in the world, including Austria, which is also retreating from the recognition of antibodies for antiepidemic measures. It is recommended that further research be continued. A study on Preval II antibodies is currently underway. Individuals who have had antibodies examined should be encouraged to be vaccinated even if they have positive levels to achieve optimal hybrid immunity. A single dose vaccine could be sufficient. But now only Janssen is available. One dose of two-dose vaccine is not available in the cod passport yet. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u9	I thank the Minister of the Environment, who gave an opinion on this for the Government of the Czech Republic. In an open debate, I note that I have four factual points, several applications, four applications with priority rights. Before I give the floor to Ms Dana Pastuchová, who is the first with a factual point, I state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Marek Benda from 12 o'clock until the end of the day of the hearing and Daniel Pawlas for family reasons. So now Jana Pastuchová's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Just for a really short time. I understand that we have before the elections, and I understand that the Member may have changed from an expert to an education, because, as I know, you are a graduate teacher, a transition to the Tricolore to a medic, or even a doctor who has been studying for six years. I don't understand when you're so obsessed with this issue, and you're so interested that I didn't see you on one of the Health Committees where all the experts were sitting and you could ask them about these things. I think if I asked you a name that you read here - maybe right - you don't even know what that means. When there were really many meetings of the Health Committee in the House, Professor Adámková did so with the entire committee, you were not there once. On top of that, my colleague Austria, through the President: yes, Austria is the only country, but it is retreating. Well, find out first, and then put something on the mic here. And I would recommend that you take care of that education, which you did really well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Tereza Hyťhová, then Lubomír Volný and Vít Kaňkovský. You have the floor on a point of fact, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u12	Well, at least here, dear friends, dear citizens, you can see what's going on here. Here, instead of making arguments, I'm here to be insulted by the fact that I'm not a doctor. Yes, I'm not a doctor, but, like, look at the citizens, look at the view of the citizen who has the antibodies, and the fact that I'm not a doctor doesn't mean I can't have my opinion. Just because you're a doctor and I'm a teacher doesn't mean I can't say my opinion here. And by the way, it's not my opinion, it's the opinion of a certain part of our citizens who ask me that and have a right to know. And whether or not Austria is going to back off, it doesn't matter at the moment. Anyway, to this day, he respects the antibodies, and that's the fact that I put forward here. So please, instead of insulting me or not being a doctor, let's have some business, and that's right, that I'm not a doctor, and that's not even most doctors here, we're all people who want our citizens to live well. And that's why I'm standing here. That's what I wanted to say for starters. Let's really stop with the invectives here if I became a doctor in the Tricolore. It's ridiculous. I wanted to ask because now I would like to respond - I still have 47 seconds - to the Minister, because I know that you may not be fully qualified, but I wanted to point out that he is not a doctor, among other things - but I wanted to point out that you said that after some time when you lose your covid, that after a few months, you might actually be infected again. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[He's laughing.]] I wanted to point out that even the vaccinated person, and it's already proven, the cases are x, they're positive. I know a lot of people in my neighborhood who have two doses of vaccine, and dear friends, there's a positive person. He just caught a covid, we don't know where, we don't know how, but he caught one. So what you're saying is just not an argument. One can still be positive after vaccination, even after losing the covid, so what's the difference?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u13	Madame, your time for a point of fact has come to an end. Now, Mr Lubomír Volný's factual comment. He prepares for a factual remark by Vít Kaňkovský. I give priority to Mr Vlastimil Válek, Tomio Okamura and Mrs Richterová. Then one unreadable signature, but I'll find out by then. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u14	I would like, through Mr President, to tell Dr Pastuchová, the district doctor, to behave according to her education and not to play an immunocompound that is not here. Yes? Just like I'm a teacher, and my colleague here is a teacher, so you're no specialist in immunology. By the way, I think that Mr. Marek Petráš, who has checked 15 studies and has clearly discovered - as in Israel - that people who - please do not disturb me here, so sit down, girls - people who have had covid and antibodies are ten times better protected from covid and from spreading it, because they have both cellular and mucus immunity than people who do not have it. [[loud call near the pitch]] Here's what was said from the Minister's mouth: the material was prepared for you by someone who was corrupted by one of those companies who had been fined $50 billion over the last 20 years for corrupting people like you and those who had prepared the material for you. Only Pfizer got a $4.5 billion fine for corrupting politicians, journalists, scientists, doctors and all those who are now defending her interests here. You guys who lobby for vaccines here, you just got paid. You used non-standardized tests against children, you used tests that had no certification. I am 100% confirmed by the Prime Minister's intervention and the Minister of Health. You rejected Mr. Žďárský tests because they said they were uncertified, but whatever else is uncertified, you use. You even encourage vaccination of pregnant women. I'd like to see a woman who was vaccinated with MRNA five years ago and is healthy and has a healthy baby. Can you show me one? So you're going to say that something is unstandardized, and so far you've been using unstandardized products every time you need to raise the profit of the covideo mafia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u15	Ambassador, your time is up. Now, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Marian Bojko will be prepared with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u16	Good morning. In fact, I will respond to Minister Brabec. Of course, I respect that you are not an expert on this issue. However, we opened the issue of antibodies against COVID-19 in the House of Deputies together with Professor Válek and Professor Adámková on the Health Committee at the beginning of this year. We asked the Ministry's expert panel to treat this validly as experts. Then my oral interpellation followed in March of this year to Mr. Professor Blatný, who said here behind this microphone: Yes, it is an important topic, we will deal with it. Unfortunately, nothing has happened for a number of months. We've done it over and over again. Let's talk about this professionally. Unfortunately, the Ministry has applied rhetoric: It is not explored, there are no studies, and therefore we will not deal with it. But at the moment, there are a number of foreign studies, but also Czech studies, such as the SMIS association, which is an association of leading microbiologists, immunologists and statistics, which demonstrate that the investigation of antibodies is relevant. It's not a wholesome method, it's one of the methods that can help us break out of the COVID-19 pandemic circle, but strictly reject it and parrot it: we can't, we can't, experts disagree, not true. The opinion already prevails in the Czech Republic from those valid, relevant experts: Yes, antibodies can be used, let's agree. That's what this is about. The Ministry is building a dam for this, and it doesn't want to somehow launch the antibodies into the COVID-19 strategy algorithm. And it's sad. It is a professional matter that may have been a little politicized, but it has been politicised because the Ministry refuses to speak up to a group of experts, and that is the basic problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time to make a point of fact. Now Marian Bojek's factual remark and Mrs Věra Procházková will be prepared, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. There's only one thing I'd like to say. There's no way I liked this training from Mrs. Pastuchová, because there's a very large number of doctors in this House. And I can personally say that there are only two, two doctors that I respect. One of them was Professor Ventruba and the other is Milan Brázdil. The rest of you, the rest of you are definitely not allowed to be here for me. [[A commotion in the hall.]] [[10.40 hours]] Yeah, laugh, laugh, that's right. You are a shining example of how then Kubek strictly refused vaccination against swine flu 10 years ago, that he would not support any experiments on medical personnel. In 10 years, in 10 years, that pharmaceutical lobby, most of those doctors, corrupted you. Only last year 150 doctors were convicted, and it's possible that one of them is sitting here, one of them is sitting here, and we don't know because we couldn't find out the name. He's the only one who's being punished was 150% of the corruption act. And there were 150 of them, and for me it's definitely the tip of the iceberg. There are doctors that I respect immensely, and these are doctors who really are specialists, orthopedists, chest surgeons, heart surgeons, and so on. But as they press constantly for vaccination, they do not recognise antibodies - we only inoculate them to produce antibodies! And we don't have them after two vaccinations in most patients. And we're gonna do a third, fourth, fifth? And if someone has the antibodies, we won't recognize them? I mean, it's the crucial thing that either he's had the disease or he's just so resilient that he's gonna survive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u19	Your time for a point of fact is over. Now, Mrs Věra Procházková. And before I do, before I give her my word, I apologize to Mr Stanislav Fridrich from 12 a.m. to 14 a.m. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u20	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. Well, how dare you, Mr Marian Bojka, through the President? I was sent here to the House by the citizens, and I don't care that you don't respect me, because I don't respect you here for those words. And I'm a doctor. For the record, as far as I know and you've all said it here, a lot of experts are dealing with antibodies, and that's right, I'm sure. And I believe we're not gonna figure this out, okay? There is no need to deal with this on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. That's a highly technical question. It's not just that we're gonna talk here. I would like to see all of you, Terezka, through the President, whether you will really bear responsibility, as if the Ministry of Health had to bear it, for giving some level. And still no one here has said what the level is that should be recognized. Nobody said it here. Do you even know her? Are you willing to tell the citizens here that they can be immunized under these levels and can afford to go anywhere without having vaccinations? You're not. You don't have a level. Everyone's still looking at that level. And the D.O.D. has one problem, and that's the level. It just can't afford to declare some level out of the law that it doesn't have a basis for. Once again, their decision would have been dropped by the Constitutional Court and all that would have happened would have had to be held accountable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u21	Madame, the time has ended for your point of order, thank you. Now MP Petr Třešňák with a factual remark. After that, Lukáš Bartoň prepares for a factual remark. You have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u22	I'll be brief. I was so waiting for Dr. Kaňkovský to come forward with the facts that he would return it to the professional level, and that is exactly what the discussion was supposed to look like. And on what Věra Procházková has just said: I totally agree with her, what Mr Bojko is doing here seems undignified to me by this House. But please look into your own ranks. Who started the debate this way today? After all, it was your colleague Mrs Pastuchová, through Mr President, who also does not appreciate colleagues elected to the Chamber of Deputies. I am certainly not on this side of the political spectrum to defend my colleague Hyťhová, but here I must defend her. There was supposed to be a professional discussion here, not questioning any education or expertise. Mrs Pastuchová, through Mr President, we voted here yesterday on many laws. I know you didn't perform with them. Dukovany, renewable sources, has been voted on. And I think these are things that you know a pencil about, too (?And I didn't mention it here either. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Bartoň will now be speaking, Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u24	Thank you. I'd like to respond to the Minister. I'm not a doctor, I'm not an expert. I'll respond as a patient. When I caught a covid many months ago, during the illness I was on two PCR tests. Both came back negative. I've had the disease, it's pretty clear when you lose the smell and taste you have. Fortunately, the doctor only needed to see me, and he treated me for covid immediately. Then I also took a test for antibodies that came out of high levels. After losing the disease, I went as soon as I could to a family party where, unfortunately, my sister-in-law had a positive test the next day, and health immediately after losing the covid, she quarantined me because I didn't have a positive PCR test. So I'm turning to you if you hand it over to the Minister of Health. Is that fair? Is that fair to me? I wouldn't be in quarantine if I had a positive test, but I had two negatives, my wife had a negative, but I went into quarantine anyway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Jana Pastuchová's factual comment, Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I'm just gonna give you a quick answer. I was duly excused yesterday, Mr. Ambassador, duly excused. All I wanted to do was tell my colleague that there were several health committees, and that if she was so interested in the subject, she wasn't even there once? That's the second answer. And for Members of the Free, by your means. You have to google properly. I'm not a circuit doctor, but thank you for the compliment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Lubomír Volný now, Karla Maříková will prepare herself. Still factual remarks and those with priority rights are waiting for their exhaustion. I'd like to get further. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u28	I apologise, through Mr President, Madame. You really, wherever you are, aren't a doctor, so I don't know what gives you the right to insult your colleagues here that they're not qualified. Why doesn't anyone go to those committees, it's simple: because the covid mafia prevails there, you won't know objective information there. Going to the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, it doesn't matter. You do not have to go there because there are political, not professional opinions. Anyone who claims anything else is just lying to themselves or to the citizens. Something was said here about some ministry being responsible for something. Please, what is the Ministry of Health responsible for? Is he responsible for the tests? You've heard here: pirate, pro-systemic, vaccination, two negative tests. Who's gonna give him back the money or the time he lost by being home for 14 days? What's the Ministry responsible for? For testing children with cancer-making tests? And I can say that they were cancerous because none of you, and especially the Ministry, can prove to me that they weren't cancerous. I can't prove to the Ministry anything that ethylene oxide wasn't used to disinfect it. You don't have any paper, the tests were uncertified. I have your Minister, your Minister of Health's answer to that. You don't know who made it, where he made it, what he made it out of, how he made it, and the Ministry has what responsibility? None, because you got the kids to stick it up their noses voluntarily, so the Ministry doesn't have any responsibility. By the way, it's the Ministry that's ordering its officials to write illegal measures. Who was responsible for the illegal orders of the Ministry of Health? Why are you lying here? Nobody. Who was punished? Did the minister leave? Did they arrest anyone? Wave your hands all you want. Did they arrest anyone? What is the Ministry of Health responsible for? That's what I'm interested in. This colleague, please step out and tell me what the Ministry of Health is responsible for? How will he be affected for accepting antibodies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u29	Your time for a point of fact is over. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková, with a factual point, will prepare Mrs Richterová for a factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If you argue with the studies and the level of antibodies here, I'll show you how illogical this whole measure is. Take that we have two patients. The first patient had COVID-19, it was detected by PCR, and is therefore in the regional hygiene station register and has a disease-free condition for 180 days, as it is assumed that he has antibodies after losing the disease. Then we have a second patient who had a covid, but he wasn't on tests, or a doctor, because he may not have had symptoms, or for some other reason, he had a self-appropriation test for antibodies that showed him that he just had them, but they're not recognized as evidence of infectivity. Both patients may have the same antibody level, or the other one may have even higher antibody levels, but it's just being discriminated against at the moment. I'm not going to argue here whether the antibodies after vaccination are better or worse, but if we compare these two examples, the kid in primary school sees that we don't know the antibody level, but in one case we only acknowledge it because he has a positive PCR test and can have a lower level of antibodies, but in the other case not just because he didn't take the test, just because he wasn't with the doctor, he's positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Olga Richterová's factual comment, Kamal Farhan will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u32	Since he's not going to get into a proper debate, I'm going to ask him this way in response to the Minister, because we've been sending an interpellation for Pirates on the 27th of May on how to deal with antibodies. We were discussing this because the World Health Organization report of May 10 just showed that 90 to 99 percent of the infected are producing antibody immunity. The ECDC - European Office - also referred not only to the limits of testing, but also to the need to examine the diagnostic level. That's what we wanted from our government. Why? Because with one of the highest seas in the world, we have excellent conditions. Because of the sad fact that so many people died here and were sick, we have reason to solve the antibodies. And when I was trying to solve it on the last health committees, it's not clear that perhaps your government will use that big Preval II study to monitor the antibody levels already measured for the study's probands and to address the real rate of reinfection in them. This could be an opportunity to use this study to determine the optimal diagnostic level for the antibody test. So just as I sent a detailed interpelation on May 27 with instructions on how to treat the antibodies, as I then repeatedly asked the Health Committee, so now I ask again whether you will use Preval II to achieve it, otherwise, please prove that antibodies are not an effective immunity indicator. Because that would just be what you're saying on the other hand, and it doesn't make any sense to me. What I think needs to be said in conclusion, unfortunately, is that you continue to undermine the public's confidence, that you do not recognise this fundamental approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u33	Your time for a point of fact is over. Now, Mr Kamal Farhan, with a factual remark, will prepare Tereza Hyťhová, then Věra Adámková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u34	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I can't do it. I didn't want to perform in this debate. There were a lot of things here, there were various studies mentioned, like the Israeli one. I read the data, too. I know the Israeli study. For one thing, I was going to say that I am a person who is more of a supporter of the recognition of antibodies, but here, whether colleague Richterová or some of you, they answered clearly. You can't just jump from one to another, to one study, to another study, to this data, to other data. From my point of view, it is important for experts, especially professional societies, to comment on this, and for clear guidelines to be established, to determine what levels are those for what we will recognise as the biological half-life of the reduction of the antibodies, there are a lot of things. But if I were politically responsible, or politically responsible, but if the Ministry were, I would come out of the opinion of professional companies and, of course, of the Preval study, mentioned here by Mrs Olga Richterová, through you. Because when these conclusions are made, or when someone swings from experts or from professional societies and sets clear guidelines, politicians can tell if they can recognize it or not. For myself, I'm a fan of this, that's all. But without the experts and without the data, not without the data one of Israel, once there, but just to sum it up and give a clear consistent opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u35	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová's factual comment, Mrs Adámková will be prepared. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u36	First of all, I would like to respond to Mrs Pastuchová, through Mr President. If I'm going or not going to health committees, please leave that to me. First of all, I can watch the record at home, and second of all, it's none of your business where I go and what kind of information I read, so stop blaming me for not going anywhere. I'm working, I have a proper appointment here in the House, so please forgive yourself for this. Two. I didn't want this debate to slide to this level, but unfortunately, Mrs Pastuchová has left me no choice. Now I'm going to go back to why we're here. I was going to say that neither the Ministry nor anyone can tell us what the limit or the level of the antibodies is. Yes, my colleague, but you know what the antibody level is after two doses of vaccination, three times? [[to the Member of the Walking Council]] Do you have it measured? Whether it's taller or lower than when you lose a covid? You know that? Well, you don't know. In Austria to this day... [[The reaction of Mrs Walking off the microphone.]] I don't know what they're retreating from, and they're not retreating from. To this day, you have evidence of non-infectiousness based on proof of antibody paper. If we don't know the level, then why do you make people vaccinate when you don't even know if the person who's not just vaccinated has a higher antibody level? Let me rephrase the example. Why, then, wasn't vaccination recommended to the daughter, by the coincidence of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, because she has a high level of antibodies? So why wasn't vaccination recommended? This is a clear example you're going to read, so let's see what you're saying, scientist, doctor, here to explain. Then why isn't Miss Babišová inoculated? Well, because the doctor didn't recommend it. And I'm asking why. If he has a high dose of antibodies without vaccination, he probably shouldn't be vaccinated. That's what we're asking here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u37	Your time for a point of fact is over. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková's factual comment. Petr Třešňák will prepare himself, then Jiří Mašek. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Let me put this heated debate back a little bit into the expert part where it definitely belongs, but I understand that emotions are strong and can't be stopped. It's okay. Let's see what the disease does. The disease we're going through means that this person is obviously protected. Please, the term infectivity is not correct, he is protected to some extent against getting the disease again. That's the point. And that's why we're inoculating them so they don't get the disease again. So in any case, the person who didn't have the disease, surely vaccination is one way for him. The antibodies that we have after the disease is lost, please, do not really have a clear worldwide value, for which we know safely that it protects long-term, but it is not true that we do not know anything. We know how it is because patients who have been through the disease, you know very well that one treatment was that they were giving plasma that was being modified and used as a cure. So it's still working with it. And the fact that we don't have clear data in medicine immediately, that's common, that's nothing new at all. So the antibodies must certainly be taken into account, because from a laboratory point of view, we don't have a difference between the antibodies that are after the disease and after the vaccination, the laboratory method cannot determine that they are the same for them. So that's why we're still picking it up, and I just want to remind you that since February of this year, in several entries of the Ministry's working group, it's right under my name, and I was against everyone that we need to focus on the antidotes, that it's impossible to throw them off the table. So to say, it's long-term, it's ours, and it's there with a clear signature, so that's, yes, there's a clear primate. [[11.00 hours]] And let's look at one more thing, and this is a study of Preval, please nicely. You've made an incorrect statement, you probably haven't understood - the Preval study is about to begin, Preval II. There was a Preval I study, it ended last year, and now the Preval II study begins - that was what we were talking about. So we cannot know its results and hope by the end of the year that they will, of course, shed significant light on the information... and will be ours, Czech, or we will be able to build on it. [[President: Madam, you too have finished your time on a point of fact.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u39	Thank you and I will interrupt this point. I am sorry that the first one registered with the priority right, Mr Válek, did not appear in the order of paragraph 199, even though he applied at 8.17 a.m. So I interrupt this point, and since item number 2002 is fixed at 11 o'clock, I will also hand over the meeting proceedings. [[Right 202]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-17-ps2017-118-04-003-199.u40	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, we will now be looking at the fixed item in question.
