ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u1	United debate on paragraphs 1 and 2 / House prints 1008 and 1009/ We have repeatedly dealt with these Houses of Press on 7 May 2021 at the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged debate. Klára Dostálová, Minister of Regional Development, took the position at the rapporteur's table, and Mr Martin Kolovratník is the rapporteur of the guarantee committee. [[9.50 hours]] We should now continue with the suspended merged debate by expressing Mr Marek Výborný, but it has been announced to me from his club that he is performing in the Senate, he is not present, so he will be placed at the end of the ranking. At this point, I've got a 10. 5. 12.48. Application with the priority right of President Bartoš, but thank you for allowing the speech, reports with the priority right of Minister Klára Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose, in accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Section 59 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 1 and 2 in order for the House to resolve that to the present press No. 1008 and 1009 limit the speaking time to 10 minutes and that the Member may speak not more than twice in the same case. The next proposal I propose is that, in the event of this House of Press not discussing the third reading today, we continue to discuss it tomorrow, i.e. Thursday, May 13th. Therefore, in this context, I propose that Article 54 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. In addition, under Section 95a of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to set aside other hours for their consideration from 9 to 19 o'clock. At the same time, I consider it polite to comment on the debate that was here on the agenda and on REACT. I'd like you all to really watch carefully what I'm about to tell you. Everything that was said here isn't true. It's not true. And I ask very much that the viewers who have to listen to this really find the website of the Ministry of Regional Development, where all the selection criteria for the challenge that has been discussed here are downloaded. There are 23 of these selection criteria. Since, of course, we are under constant pressure to ensure that all selection criteria are transparent, i.e. well-known so that all applicants can get to know them, so we do. We're publishing everything. However, it may, of course, be that if dozens of projects then have the same score, i.e. They will meet the criteria that they know in advance of 100 percent, and the allocation will be smaller than the number of projects submitted, so tell me what method to choose between those that have all 100 points. That's why we pointed out that in the finals, if they all line up on the 100-point line, which I really don't expect... The Pardubice Region, for example, said here: for the first good they did not fulfil one of the conditions, and that for one applicant there could be a maximum of half a billion. The Pardubice Region planted projects there for about 1.8 billion, so it is clear that the projects will be shut down. Please, it's not the final push-ups list. It's total nonsense. These projects have to be evaluated first, only then, if they all line up and have a hundred points, the rate of administration will be taken into account. So I'm just asking you not to instigate the public like that, because that's not really the case. As far as selection criteria are concerned, this was not invented by the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you very much for saying so to President Válek. In addition, he was a working team at the Ministry of Health, where he was UHIS, where they were representatives of towns and municipalities, Association of Regions. And even the County Association actually said that there is no time for any allocation key for the regions and that it should be left open. Of all things, there are entries, because, as President Bartoš rightly pointed out, we cannot afford any intervention, everywhere they are called. audit footprints so that it can never really happen that someone would have any influence on this. And as far as the selection criteria themselves are concerned, then it is still called. monitoring committee, where representatives are across whether social or economic partners, commissions, regions, cities etc. In this committee MMR has three people, Association of Regions five etc. etc. And of course, everyone knows the selection criteria. Therefore, too many please, there are 23, which means that the feasibility of the project is really evaluated there, the timetable for whether they have fulfilled the indicators. Of course, if construction works are also there, it will be very decisive whether they can get a building permit on that date. Certainly, since we need to draw the funds quickly, we won't be able to move the data to obtain the building permit, etc. So it's only after the evaluation that the list will be compiled. What you see on the website today - and we have published it including those seconds to actually live up to what Mr. Governor Půta wrote, everything is available on the MMR website. So please, let's not mess up, the criteria are. Of course, projects will be evaluated in a material and qualitative way, and only after everyone has a hundred points in quotation marks, so of course they have to take that time into account in some way, because allocation won't be for everyone. And I'd like to reassure all our paramedics. We expect a second tranche within the European Commission. The second tranche will come in October and around CZK 6 billion will come. And where the 6 billion crowns go, the government decides. I suppose if there's such an excess of demand, the government will, of course, turn to the paramedics' side. So here I completely agree that this REACT should be about health care in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u3	Thank you. To recapitulate it somehow. We are already in the debate, several procedural proposals have been made, which we will vote on immediately, only then would we give the floor. I have a point of fact here. The Vice-President is given priority rights and you're applying to the procedural process? [[Members of Montenegro.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u4	Thank you for the floor. I, on behalf of the Pirates and starosta' MP, give the veto to discuss third reading at times other than those defined by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u5	Well, thank you. This narrows the vote to one procedural motion, namely that the speaking time will be limited to ten minutes and that each Member may speak at most twice. About this? [[The answer's off the microphone.]] Here's to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u6	I'd just like to ask: on the high road I should have voted in favour, I was against it. Just to make sure it's okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u7	So you don't question the vote. Thank you. Did I ever see anyone else do that? President Bartoš with a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with the limitations of the time. Then I'll have a not-so-long speech. I have only brought to show what amendments to the Government proposal look like, which shows that the government proposal is not discussed and is not twice as good. [[shows a large package of supporting documents]] If only you would like to present a part of these amendments before their vote - and there are about a hundred of them - I wonder how those plaintiffs can fit in two times ten minutes when the issue is -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u9	Mr President, are you proposing a procedural counter-proposal or something? Because otherwise I shouldn't give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u10	Thirty minutes for each performer twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u11	Therefore, first we will vote against the proposal, then the proposal. For those who have not heard or are coming in additionally, we are voting on a proposal to limit speaking time to this point. First a pirate proposal 30 minutes for one performance, then a proposal by the Minister and Mrs Dostálová for ten minutes for one performance. So first, the 30 minutes. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, registered 160, for 44, versus 32. The motion was denied. We are therefore voting now to limit speaking time to ten minutes, and each Member can only speak twice. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, registered is 159, for 91, against 41. This proposal was adopted. [[Noise in the hall.]] At this point, we have two factual points, Mrs Černochová, then Mrs GajdůGajdůšková. Please, really, really calm down. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to respond to this speech by Minister Dostálová, because I assume that engineer Petra Živcová, the Chief Minister's Board of Operations Management, really exists and that she sent the email explaining how the click is to be done, and she writes in the final sentence that "the crucial factor will be the start of the time of clicking at 14.00 and the speed of the double click, for example, against technical parameters. Good luck!" So, Madam Secretary, either your officials don't know what they're doing or you don't know what your officials are doing. I don't think what Mr. President of ODS Stanjura said invented a single thing. This e-mail really went. I understand that there was a need to explain, and I appreciate that you stepped out, but what all the previous speakers said, and it was about the European funds, unfortunately, is true. The fact that you're going to evaluate other criteria now, that's what we're happy about. But then why do your officials write to people that it's a crucial factor, the double-click?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u13	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government. Let's keep going. Now, with the factual remark made by Minister Dostálová and then by President Válek. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u14	I'm just talking to Mrs. Černochová. I thank you for this performance, because I have to admit here - yes, the email actually left because it was the answer to a specific question, because of course the applicants asked how the procedure would be, and we had to point out that if the transparent criteria are given in advance, it could really happen that they all have the same number of points, and then we just have to take into account the speed of submission. So, on the contrary, I think it's fair that we didn't cover this up, this information, and in answer to the question, we provided this information. And all the criteria were really well-known and well-known in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u15	Thank you, Minister. Now, with a point of fact, President Válek, then with a point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister, perhaps surprisingly, because those desperate phone calls, the e-mails I've been experiencing from hospital directors, are due to the fact that I've been moving in health for a really long time, they've been hopeless. Some came from their vacations because of it. And I must say that some have sent a letter to the President, some have sent letters to members of the Health Committee. That is why I will be very happy if you support an emergency meeting, and if we discuss everything there really so that the health public, but also the patients are as calm as possible, and therefore I am very happy that the evaluation will then be as open as possible, so that all parameters will be familiar with the Chamber of Deputies, so that it is absolutely clear, justified, why the x y projects have won, and I am glad that the Minister has said that they will support the government as much as possible so that the second part of the European Union money goes back to health projects. Just to give you an idea, these projects are, I think, totaled for 18 billion, or 17, I don't know exactly, 8 billion will compete. If it were another 6 billion, we would be close to being able to finance all these projects, and I am convinced - I am convinced - as I have become familiar with roughly 30 of those projects from different parts of the Republic, that they are very good projects that will really help Czech health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u17	I thank you for keeping time on a point of fact. Mr Ferjenčík's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to the Minister, who has repeated here about five times, that if there is equality, and immediately announced that there are dozens of cases where projects with the same evaluation will be loaded, so the case is expected to occur, so she will have to use the filing time. I don't understand what forces the Minister to use this parameter, which is obviously pointless, in a situation where the filing times are within minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u19	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and we will proceed in the debate. President Ivan Bartoš has signed up with priority rights. [[A voice from the diaper.]] The debate, yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would, although I agree with what has been said here on the issue of distribution of money in health care, I would have already gone to the law of construction. Well, I've taken these documents here with illustration again. [[He's showing a package of paperwork.]] We don't print them. For some incomprehensible reason, we get it from the apparatus in this printed form. This package is a package of amendments to the government's bill of construction. I'd like to add one more thing, maybe in front of the parentheses, as the club chairman... as the party's chairman, the club's chairman. Of course, the limits on the length of the speeches do not apply to us, but I will not alarm anyone here that I will now be going through these amendments, I will speak in substance to the issue that we are dealing with here. But I'm gonna start a little wide. Perhaps someone can ask why we are discussing such important legislation at an emergency meeting, why this is the case, why we have not been able to consensually approve the building law in the House, which happens very often with the necessary laws, regardless of who the government is, who the government parties are, who the opposition is. For he every law and, in particular, the law of this greatness must meet certain criteria. The law must be necessary. The law must be balanced. The law must be smart. He should be discussed. And if not 100%, then at least part of it should be the right way to solve the problem and at the same time be gentle with those who are covered by the law if they are subject to new obligations. This law, which was put forward by the government first and then came here again through Mr Kolovratník's proposal, has only the first of these criteria, which I mentioned. Indeed, a new building law is needed. History shows us that there is a consensus in the laws that meet these criteria, and the House votes almost as one man and one woman. When I look at history, it's a topic that's up-to-date now, a vote on raising pensions, and actually support for the valorisation mechanism. June 29th, if I am not mistaken, 2018, increase in pensions. We all agree that pensions are low in the Czech Republic, which is why they were also dealt with by systemically, not by individual ad hoc packages. On that day, all the enlisted Members except two - I think it was from the YES movement, but the reasons I do not know - voted in favour, including the votes of the pirates present, in order to uncover one hoax at the same time. That was approved because it met all the requirements. It was simple, discussed, needed, well prepared, and everyone, regardless of the political parties, acknowledged that this was needed. When I look at the subject of covid, when we were in the House discussing the infirmary for parents who stay home with the children. That it was not ideal, at the time the government forgot about the groups of people working on the agreement, DPP, DPČ and so on, entrepreneurs, which we then supplied. But again, the House voted unitedly, the money was needed, we solved the problem. So is the question of compensation. This may be an example where, although partly in the right direction, and at least for the entrepreneurs to get something, even though we proposed different political parties, other options, and for the minimum that the government eventually proposed, we voted as the House for. I will introduce three major legislations, in which almost all Members and, ultimately, the ministries were involved. They were the biggest laws of digitization: digital constitution, banking identity or digital technical maps. The new laws, rather large legislation and the House agreed, agreed with the ministries, agreed within the resorts and with the individual Stakeholders, whether they were banks, whether they were organizations that protect or protect privacy, all of which were discussed and the House voted in favour. [[10.10 hours]] We are at an emergency meeting today, especially because this did not happen under the law, the new construction law. The reality of the Chamber of Deputies is, however, that the House can pass through - and now excuse me for saying this - and complete nonsense. The House can go through a law that's being naughty. And then there's the extreme option of going through a law that's stupid and it's misbehaved. And how can such a law pass? It is that the division of forces in the House, where there is a government and a government party, simply has a majority, and the law declares. A bit of an interesting situation is, however, in the case of this draft government construction law, where the government does not actually have the majority, at least it does not have it on the ground plan of the parties that explicitly applied to the government. Yet the will to push through this law, which does not meet the basic parameters, is in the House. I have also responded to the speech of Minister Zaorálek, which is therefore from the government side of social democracy. And he at least presented from the point of view of the Ministry of Culture that the law is problematic, that the law in the given direction is not correct. That from the beginning, and we were preparing our own design of the construction law, the government was already supported by the KSČM and SPD. I can only speculate why it happened. However, Members of these two parties who claim not to trust the government, which often distance themselves from government statements, are probably the voting majority in this House, which will eventually push through the government proposal. That's why we're in an emergency meeting right now, because the law doesn't lean on a broad consensus. He's not prepared properly. I just wanted to give some examples of the law that maybe didn't meet criterion one, or from my point of view it was a very stupid law, I'm not going to repeat that word again. At the time, the government was discussing tax collection, which was still in the last parliamentary term, and she said: tax collection will improve considerably, and that is why we will introduce the EET. It's the biggest digitization project, hooray, let's go deal with it. Following the introduction of the EET for certain segments, tax collection was shown to grow approximately the same in segments that were not obliged to use the EET as in segments that had this obligation by law. So the factual benefit of making tax collection more effective has not been demonstrated, yet the law passed through the House, was applied and could be put on billboards: we have made the largest digitization project, EET, the flagship of Mr Babiš. I'll pick another example. A law that has been greatly maligned. The Czech Republic wanted to address the issue of gambling through the Ministry of Finance during the last parliamentary term. Interestingly, the biggest supporters of the proposal were the largest betting offices and gambling lobbies. That's why the law intervened in some segments, and it didn't count on all the money that people lose today and in the years to come, losing on mobile phones where the apps are, there's the Internet in them. And this didn't matter why? Because the companies involved saw this future. That Andrej Babiš did not see her at the Ministry of Finance then, although I met him several times on this subject, is different. And then you need a law that is maligned, and it's still very bad, and it was the establishment of a National Sports Agency. And I'd like to compare it a little bit to what's happening today. That was the introduction to this meeting. I would look very briefly at the preparation of this law. How should a law be established in politics? You'll identify the problem you're going to solve. That doesn't always have to happen. Someone has to warn you about the problem. Then you'll find out what the problem is from the point of view of processes and data. You'll do the analysis. In our case, and we, for example, are going to represent this in the programme, I would expect that there is either a ministry or under the government some government analytical department that will add the data to your problem, so that you can understand the problem, and that legislation can aim at the actual merit of the problem, so that legislation can solve this problem. Quite the opposite, I would say the extreme approach is, which was chosen by the Ministry of Regional Development at the time, that you will enter or draw this data from organizations, associations that exclusively address the construction itself, not all the other aspects that each law has to balance. And if you have the data, you're going to propose some kind of solution that you're going to enter political, but also public space. And you're looking for the balance. [[The rapporteur points out that the time for the performance has expired.]] I'm with priority rights. But I'll be off soon. Don't worry, I could read the designs that are here. And what I think is important is balancing those interests. That's the role of politics. For me, the word developer is not negatively colored in any way. It's not. Someone's gotta build these houses. But he's also an important citizen to whom the law applies. Just as important is the city that is planning its development and where there are local politicians who are elected by people for some of their visions of urban development. Monument care is equally important. Just as important are aspects of our nature, on which construction can have a major impact. And the aim of the policy, the responsible policy, is to find a solution on the basis of data that is beneficial to society as a whole and is not significantly skewed in the interests of some of these groups that are entering the process. I'm afraid that's not how the law was conceived. And the last sad dot, which unfortunately is now running on Czech Television in the news: Members are discussing the construction law from the Ministry of Regional Development workshop. And now gentlemen will forgive, but Minister Dostálová is not the representative of the Association of Towns, there are no monuments, there are not people who care about our nature, but there are representatives of the Chamber of Commerce Mr Dlouhý, the head of the Association of Industry and Transport Mr Chaloupeckýý - Deputy Chief, and President of the Association of Entrepreneurs in Construction. I think this illustrates very much how this law was prepared and how unbalanced its proposal is. We have tabled a comprehensive amendment with Members, which does not create a super-office similar to the National Sports Agency, it does not centralise the problem and, in my view, the related corruption to one place, but solves it digitally, solves it by rationalising processes, by protecting public interests, by strengthening cities. This comprehensive amendment, and I have already heard the comments of Minister Dostálová for the media, has no chance, thanks to the votes of the SPD and the KSČM, to pass. And so we, although the ministry has been doing a bit of grémia, we have met, and now I speak at least for that group of say democratic opposition, because we have prepared both the complex proposal and the partial ones, with those other stokeholders, with those citizens, with those cities, with representatives of conservationists, with representatives of conservationists, and we will try to take these needs into account in the legislation at this third reading at this extraordinary meeting at least in part. As the vote ends, we will see this at the end of the third reading, whether the law will be approved, what amendments will be approved. And at the beginning, I reacted to the length of the performance. I don't think we're gonna be able to perform like an extra clumsy speech here. It's just that the law is written wrong, it doesn't meet the criteria I was talking about at the beginning. And the various amendments tabled from the group of Members, which prepared a comprehensive amendment, aim at the most problematic parts. However, the law is bad as a whole, and it records significantly in particular the areas of construction. This does not bring the solution to the system, and we cannot then vote on the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u21	Thank you to President Ivan Bartoš. Now, before I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the TOP 09 Dominik Feri, I will read two apologies received. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes for working reasons today and then she apologizes to Jana Maláčová, the Minister for Regional Development. [[right: work and social affairs]] Now, therefore, Mr Dominik Feri with priority rights as vice-chairman of the MP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Madam Secretary, I am speaking with priority law, not because I would like to speak more than ten minutes, but because, if I happen to be a little sluggish in the debate, so that I may have a certain margin. It is difficult to speak almost at the end of the debate because almost everything relevant from the opposition point of view has already been spoken, but one thing I do not think is enough yet and I will get to that, and that is creating uncertainty within the framework of building law. First of all, first of all. The opinion of the TOP 09 is clear and permanent. We want a speeding up of building control. We want to protect environmental values, protect nature and landscape. We want to find a match in the territory, we want to digitize the building process. But we also want a non-bureocratic solution that will not burden public budgets and will not be associated with excessive transaction costs. We will also vote accordingly under the most critical amendments. I do not want to wonder that there are dozens of amendments. This is quite common for such an essential draft in the legislative process. However, what is a little bit unusual and rare is the enormous disrepancy between the government's position, the coalition, and the opposition's position, when it is not quite common for the opposition to unite, whether the opposition is purely right-right, central, or slightly left-wing, on some specific things and to prepare a fully and comprehensive document such as this proposal. That's not quite normal. What does that mean? What caused this? I think this is due to the fact that the government has heard many voices in such a fundamental systemic change and has not tried to find sufficient consensus. I understand the absolutely right of government to rule, the right of government to make systemic changes, but it must be done in such a fundamental way, unless they want to create the uncertainty that I have already overtaken, to prevent sufficient discussions. On this proposal, I remember as if it were yesterday, when dozens of academics and people from practice turned against the preparation of the proposal in the context of the LRV, not making comments. These are absolutely fundamental comments, which have simply not been taken into account all along, and it has been pushed and pushed and pushed. My goal today isn't to build and hopefully believe that this will not pass through the House's third reading. I don't think so, I don't want that. However, I believe, whether this vote is today or Friday, that will not put an end to the uncertainty about what will happen to this law, but I think that will start with that uncertainty. Because when you look at the petitioners of the amendments, the complex amendment, and the person presenting this proposal, the government and the political parties, this creates uncertainty with the builders and uncertainty, of course, within the state construction administration, how it will actually turn out with the law, whether the law will last in this form throughout the period of legisvakance until the effectiveness of the draft, or not. And those concerns will be perfectly reasonable, because if there is such a fundamental contradiction from important players and stakeholders in this proposal, then it is simply no wonder that any other government, whoever sits in it, will want to make changes in this draft. And that's the uncertainty, that's what I wanted to point out. That is probably not going to be solved here today, because unfortunately, even though a significant part of these amendments could be removed in our amendments, those flawed things, the essential things, the institutional things that we have a problem with in the government proposal and the comprehensive amendment that has passed through the economic committee, but unfortunately, that is not the political support. If I have spoken of this extraordinary agreement within the opposition, of course we have not interpreted the work in vain, and the comprehensive amendment and the various ideas and ideas from it have been developed into individual partial amendments, whether it is an adjustment to the issues of expropriation, the removal of black buildings or digitalisation, or, for example, the acquisition, the acceleration of changes in territorial planning documentation and, of course, the institutional concept. That's still there. So the TOP 09 position is clear: we want to speed up the construction process, we want to ensure that the projects are implemented as quickly as possible, taking into account, of course, all the interests associated with it, but not at any cost, not for simply overhearing many fundamental incentives from the practice of both self-government and construction workers. This is something we cannot support, unfortunately, unless the fundamental amendments that we have tabled have been miraculously passed. So much for our position on this amendment. And I would like to build one more thing for sure, because there has been false information in the public space that perhaps we will be voting today, and I am talking to press 1009, about increasing the price of real estate for especially young families, that if they build, they will pay construction fees. We're not voting for anything like that here. We won't. Just don't, we're not voting for that. Whoever says so is lying. I'm not gonna say who's saying it. What wouldn't I say? It's a SPD. It's Chairman Okamura. That we may be voting here, i.e. the opposition, that means ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Mayors and Pirates, that we want to introduce the construction fee here. It's not true. We're not voting on anything like that. And unfortunately, this is not the first hoax that concerns housing. I think that the Pirate Party colleagues have felt this very harshly about the property acquisition tax, where there is a pamphlet spreading that is not from their program. Just for a certain part of the political scene, this is very tempting, creating something, labeling it, and it already lives on the Internet with its own life. But that's just not true. Don't spread it. We're not gonna cost any living here tonight. On the contrary, we come up with proposals that will make the housing cheaper, and we come up with proposals that will speed up the construction process and will not lead to billions being invested to create a government dream - a super-office that we can comfortably do without. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u23	Thank you. And now, Mr Jan Pošvář, in the debate. František Kopřiva will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to seven problematic points, as the proposed construction law of the association of environmental institutions, the so-called Green Circle, sees. One. There is no consensus on the main principles of change. That's been dropped a few times, but I think we need to do this again. The fact that there is no consensus on the main principles of change carries a high risk of a series of adjustments immediately after the approval of the law or the abolition of the entire costly reorganisation in the following years. The fundamental disputes about material solutions that have not been resolved in the preparation of the substantive intention have caused key actors to have fundamental reservations about the paragrafo proposal. The proposal is opposed not only by self-government, but also by a number of professional associations. Such an important law bringing about the greatest reform of public administration since 2000 should not be approved without elementary expert agreement and agreement with the opposition. Two. The proposal eliminates the protection of public interests based on an expert assessment which is so far independent of the building authority. The environmental impact of projects will be assessed only within the building office, including in the case of particularly valuable territories. The protection of public interests will be fundamentally weakened by the so-called integration of the institutions concerned. The so-called integration means, in particular, the weakening of the conservation of nature and the environment, as the serious effects of the project on water protection, agricultural land or forests will in most cases be assessed only by the construction office. The Supreme Administrative Court also disagreed with this integration. [[10.30 hours]] Three. The main proposals for the adaptation of land-use planning were submitted at the last minute without discussion with all relevant actors and without impact assessment. The Government's proposal did not contain the necessary strengthening of local planning authorities. This was, inter alia, the result of merely the formal settlement of comments on the substantive intention and the paragrafo version. Members' proposals, which fundamentally change the procedures in territorial planning, published only a few weeks before the final vote, have not been discussed with the professional public, where there has not even been a standard interreviewal commentary procedure. There is therefore no analysis of the effects of RIA, which must be made with such a fundamental change. A change that affects all municipalities in the Czech Republic in a significant way must therefore undergo standard preparation and careful impact analysis. Four. The public and property owners will have limited options to argue in standard management. As a result, more disputes will end in court. Instead of full participation in the planning and approval of buildings, the parties will appeal more to the courts. Let us give an example of the withdrawal of the objection during the discussion of the zoning plan. The objection allows all stakeholders, i.e. representatives, to see some of the comments more clearly and to deal with them carefully. The representatives shall vote separately on them. This procedure is supposed to be abandoned, and I'm asking why and who cares. Five. Time limits for building authorisation remain unenforceable. The Regional Building Offices, which will decide on all major constructions, have only time limits for decision-making without tools for their recovery. This concerns both the time limits for the expression of the administrators or owners of the civil engineering networks and the time limits for the decision-making of the construction offices. Although the proposal was to make time limits binding, the remedies in the event of their lack of respect for the proposal are lacking. The delays in the authorisation will thus continue. There will be virtually no acceleration. Six. The extensive reorganisation of the public administration with thousands of employees will require one-off expenditure in the order of billions of crowns in the period of the decline in public budget revenues. Building decisions will be paralyzed for up to one and a half years. According to RIA's assessment, one-off expenditure on radical change in the public administration organisation is estimated at CZK 1.4 billion. However, this calculation does not include the costs of digitising, renting of new premises and the severance payments paid to workers of broken construction offices and workers of the authorities concerned. It is clear that billions of spending will take place at a time when public revenues fall due to the economic recession. According to the Ministry of the Interior, extensive reorganisation will cause paralysis of building decisions of at least one year. And seven. Centralisation of decision-making will strengthen the corruption potential of the authorisation procedure. The responsibility for the rapid decision-making of the buildings will belong to the Supreme Building Office and its Chairman, appointed and dismissed by the Government. Responsibility for the defence of public interests will be dissolved in the team of its officials. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal needs to be revised on the basis of analyses and consensus on the main pillars of the reform. In view of the scope of the regulation and its factual complexity, I consider the possibility of correcting the proposal within the framework of the amendments in the Chamber of Deputies virtually unrealistic. I would like to say that the Green Circle also agrees with the Supreme Administrative Court, which stated in its comments that, depending on the scope and nature of the comments on the draft law, it does not recommend continuing the preparation of the proposal in its current form. If the proposal is to be a basis for further preparation of the new legislation on construction law, it is necessary to recast it within the meaning of the comments made in cooperation with the professional public and the groups concerned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u25	I thank Mr Pošvář for his time. Now, Mr František Kopřiva, Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared to present the opinion of the MP. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, some of my reservations about this law overlap, and our President and some colleagues have already mentioned this, so I would like to sum up the arguments that we share with UNESCO, for example. with the Czech Commission for UNESCO, for the United Nations Educational, Science and Culture, as well as the arguments made by the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. It should certainly be said that the Czech Commission for UNESCO, on behalf of its President Stanislav Štech, also addressed the Minister, and this specifically concerned the amendment tabled by a group of Members around Mr Martin Kolovratník. The Czech UNESCO Commission was an inter-ministerial coordinating and advisory body and is a coordinating body of the Government and its members are representatives of relevant ministries and important institutions and organisations, as well as experts working in the areas of the mandate of UNESCO, namely education, science, culture and the environment. In view of the fact that construction legislation is closely linked to these topics, which are relevant to the Czech UNESCO Commission, this law has been renegotiated since the stage of material intent, both with specialised sections and with the Executive Committee of the Czech UNESCO Commission and finally with the whole committee. They also dealt equally thoroughly with the amendments currently tabled, including the one I have already mentioned. Unfortunately, this commission has concluded that, despite some minor positive changes, members of the Czech UNESCO Commission continue to have serious reservations about both what the construction law contains in the form of current amendments and how it is discussed here at the premises of our Chamber of Deputies. The opinion of the Czech Commission still applies to this day, which has already been expressed many times during the negotiations on this proposal, whether at the stage of the substantive intention of the law, or later, there are still reservations that the bill weakens the protection of public interests in the field of conservation of nature and landscape, but also of the soil fund, as well as the material cultural heritage and its wider environment, but also, and I think that it is important that it should also be added to the protection of human rights. The negotiation process creates concerns about further restrictions on instruments for protecting these public interests. The Czech UNESCO Commission also stresses that these public interests enjoy the protection of the Constitution, directly by our constitutional order of the Czech Republic, and that is why it is necessary, for example, to mention them in the provisions of the present law, where, contrary to the current state, the current wording of the law, where they are not referred to. The Czech UNESCO Commission also considers it extremely unfortunate, and with this we also fully agree that the bill was not assigned to the Chamber of Deputies to discuss the Committee on the Environment in this House, which unfortunately makes it possible for some participants to interpret it as an attempt to limit the discussion of this proposal in terms of conservation of nature and landscape, protection of water and agricultural land from construction and other interventions that must also be considered on those bowls of scales, and therefore the Committee on the Environment was excluded from the discussion and, in short, it should have been the land where the negotiations were also to take place from the point of view of what I mentioned and what therefore the Czech UNESCO Commission considers necessary. As well as the Czech UNESCO Commission, we are concerned that, in parallel with the amendments to the Act, amendments to the relevant amendment law are not discussed, without which further negative effects on the protection of those public interests cannot be excluded. The Czech UNESCO Commission insists that discussions over such a complex and important standard, even considering how long it was planned to be submitted and actually being discussed only now, so the discussion of this law, such as recodification, which this recodification of building law is so important, should include discussions with all potentially affected actors, including non-governmental organisations, including the protection of the rights of individual citizens, who will be directly affected by the implementation of construction under the new construction law, but also with the Czech UNESCO Commission, which is the official advisory body of the government. [[10.40 hours]] Protection of public interests and respect for the rights of individual citizens is one of the fundamental features of a democratic society, so these reservations simply continue. We feel that this discussion has been unnecessarily limited both on the premises of the Chamber of Deputies and with other stakeholders and representatives of civil society. So I think it is necessary for these arguments to be heard here by the Czech Commission for UNESCO. I would still like to make the arguments that the Union of Towns and Municipalities has just sent. His representatives met with the President. The new construction law that we are currently discussing, according to the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, has many controversial paragraphs. Their amendments are addressed by the Ministry of Regional Development in the form of parliamentary amendments, just as has already been said here. And we didn't really know the content until after the presentation, and there was no room for discussion over them, although they fundamentally affect the draft that we're discussing here. One of the proposals, for example, brings back institutional change in the construction system. According to information The Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic is also preferred by the Ministry of Regional Development. However, this proposal is in fundamental contradiction with the agreement made by the Union in the presence of the Prime Minister with Minister Klára Dostálová. This change will mean moving around 10,000 officials under the administration of a new government official body, the Supreme Building Office. The proposed change will also be very costly. According to preliminary calculations by the Ministry of Interior, it will be tens of billions of crowns. Unfortunately, I also did not notice any more specific estimate, and so did the Union of Towns and Municipalities. But this is really alarming. In order to accelerate the overall construction process, digitalisation of the entire construction process is essential, and unfortunately it has not yet taken place, but is completely independent of the institutional change, so it should take place in our view and according to the Union before this transfer to the large central office. So these were just some arguments that we share with both the Czech Commission for UNESCO and the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, but also with other NGOs, associations and associations, which unfortunately did not have the opportunity to express themselves, and unfortunately not only because of those measures in force last year, but also because of the lower openness of the government to this discussion. After all, we have also seen this here in the Chamber of Deputies by limiting, for example, the discussions on committees and, after all, the restrictions on the debate today. So I'll be glad if we talk about this here today, we'll discuss the arguments thoroughly before we go to the final vote. And now I am not just talking about the proposal, the draft, as it is presented, but also those amendments that, as I mentioned in my speech, have a major impact. And I'm not sure their impact is properly evaluated and discussed. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u27	Well, thank you for keeping time. And now the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek has signed up with priority right, then a colleague Marek Výborný with the opinion of the MP's club is prepared. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u28	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have experience with the previous discussions of the construction law that the devil was often hidden in the amendments. Of course, there are a lot of them here, but some I think are more important, perhaps because they were supported by the Economic Committee. So that's why I'd like to respond to what I find particularly risky. I would have mentioned what was often mentioned here - I have actually said it here last time, I was talking about the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. And I would like to begin by reminding you of Article 11 of this Treaty, in which the Czech Republic, as a contracting state, has committed itself to promoting the use of protected buildings in respect of the needs of contemporary life, while respecting the architectural and historical nature of the heritage. So it's possible to adapt the old ones, or it's even necessary to adapt the old buildings to new purposes, if that's appropriate. So I think the idea of protecting an architectural heritage has something to do with the fact that it's really meant to be alive. What is being protected is not to protect itself into a form that is merely a can, but it has to have a life in it. The building without filling is dying. Therefore, one of the aims of conservation care is to seek and find a new life of buildings. I have an example. In Ostrava, for example, in Dolní Vítkovice, where this had just been done, where coal was once mined and iron melted, the whole space gained a whole new function there. And that's the goal. The goal is - and it should be supported by the law governing conservation, but also by the new building law. Well, I'll admit that what caused my attention and concern is an amendment bearing the number F25, which is under number 7953. In fact, when you read it, one of the main elements of the proposal is, the amendment, the fact that the living room may not have a window. That the living room doesn't have to have a window. This means that the amendment defines the concept of a living room with lighting and ventilation requirements without assuming that the space will take place or windows will be implemented. It looks like it's bringing us back to living in a cave where the requirement of natural light doesn't belong to what's essential after that. Whoever met the requirements of monument care in the past knows that there was often a rumor that, for example, when someone had a house in the square, protected, it actually excluded the illumination of the soil building in that conservation area. So it may surprise you that I am acting like this here, because after the adoption of this amendment, this requirement of conservation care will no longer be encountered by the construction law. A room without windows is a principle that would be introduced. Well, I think what's going to be the result of this realization. After costly, even complex reconstruction, the new owner won't see the square. Air conditioning, artificial lighting allows him to use this space, but the question is whether it is the value in which we have to create housing. When the view - because the view also makes up the value of the apartment, that you have a look somewhere. He'll have to climb a chimney or a new footbridge to see in the square. And the question is whether our goal is to build spaces that will only be illuminated artificially and that you will not naturally air. Here I think it is not in accordance with the article of the Convention on the Protection of the Heritage of Architectural, where we talk about the needs of contemporary life and really suitable adaptation of old buildings for new purposes. I know that in this case the position of the Ministry of Regional Development has been negative. But unfortunately, this view is no longer supported by the economic committee that supported the proposal. So my concern is that the construction law will become a standard that I think has little to do with any user-friendly regulation. I've heard somewhere that no one buys an apartment like this. But that is the question of why we want to allow such an adjustment at all. I fear that, at all costs, the effort to accommodate windows-free spaces and, given the positive attitude of the economic committee, it is important for everyone to realise that this is not some technique or technical standard, but that it really means the introduction of the 'living room without windows' principle. I think I've exhausted my time? Not yet? Not yet, so I can finish. [[10.50 hours]] I would like to add - I have noticed that during the debate, speakers often refer to the debate, or those debates that took place referred to the davoský Declaration. I have registered that the support for the amendments is also being used, so I would just like to remind myself of the debate or the debate that is going on, what the Davo Declaration is. Virtually all European countries have more or less experience with the fact that there is very poor quality of construction of commercial, production and storage buildings, especially on the periphery of cities and sometimes even in centres. The poor planning policy thus destroys the values of the landscape and the built-up settlements. And you can barely call that ballast architecture. They're kind of special-purpose constructions. And this unfortunate development led the Ministers of Culture of European countries to commit and agree at their meeting in Davos in 2018 to support efforts for high-quality building culture, high-quality Bauculture, both the emerging and already created historical culture. Looking at these amendments, I am in vain looking for instruments that will allow better supervision of the state of the quality of the built-up territory. The ability of investors, if excessive, can lead in a completely opposite direction, perhaps even to such limited or inappropriate solutions as a residential space without windows. I appeal - sometimes they declare noble goals and go in the very opposite direction, so I draw attention to that. I don't think we should want this, the windowless living room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u29	I thank the Minister for his performance. Mr Marek Výborný will now speak with the KDU-ČSL club's opinion, Mr Čižinský will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to point out that I am actually here for the second time. For the first time, shortly after the start of my contribution to the general debate during the last discussion of these two prints in this merged debate, the negotiations were suspended, and I will now be able to get back to that. I will not repeat the things that have been said here. I will just remind them and concentrate at the beginning really on the position of the KDU-ČSL MEP, but in principle I will be here to interpret the position of both the SOLU coalition and those with whom we cooperated on our comprehensive amendment, i.e. with the Pirates and STAN coalition clubs. What do I want to say in the beginning? It is absolutely undisputed that we have a common objective with the Minister and the Government. We want a quick, simple, transparent, digital - that is the condition for us to do all this - a building process that will be modern and friendly to the builders, especially to citizens. We don't - and I don't know if we are quite in agreement - the construction process, the construction law, which would prefer only a certain group of builders, such as large developers and so on. So, of course, the basic consensus in this goal is here, but unfortunately, we are quite passing through the path of achieving that goal. We believe that this goal will not be achieved by the destruction of what has been flying for years. We do not agree that this objective will be achieved by creating one super-office, the goal will not be achieved by centralising the entire construction process. These are all the things that the government is coming up with in the quasi-government amendment tabled here by Mr Kolovratník. We believe that this objective can be achieved, as the opposition amendment has called it, as all the key actors concerned agree, from the Union of Towns and Communities through the Association of Local Authorities to the Association of Regions, namely that digitalisation, clear digitalised management, the creation of a portal by a builder, so that a real citizen, a builder, can take his building proceedings out of his office or from his home from one computer where he puts the project, where all the actors concerned will express themselves within some clearly defined time limits, so as to ensure quick management, when we will not have to create 13 thousand new jobs under the service law, that is 13,000 new officials. These are all things where we completely miss what has been introduced here from the coalition of the construction law, i.e. the movement YES, SPD and KSČM, so if I can use the results from the discussion of the economic committee, eventually also from the speeches of many colleagues here in the House. I will still get to our comprehensive amendment and some fundamental points - because unfortunately in the media and in public space they are very often misinterpreted, very often they are labeled with labels that simply do not apply, in the sense that the opposition amendment, our proposal for building proceedings, modern building proceedings, does not solve anything, that we remain where we are until now, that the proceedings will continue to be slow, that it will not be helpful to the builder. It's not true. I'll get to that in conclusion. However, I have some responsibilities that I did not finish in Friday's meeting and to which I have to return with permission. Let me just remind you that I have presented an amendment here, the one that also concerns legislative technical regulation, concerns expropriation. I'm not going back to that, because it's been said once. However, I would like to ask you to support further amendments, which I think is right at this point in time and is at third reading. One amendment concerns territorial studies. It is an amendment under document number 8015. In this proposal, he is not complicated, what we generally consider crucial as a coalition of the SPOL is strengthened, and this is so that self-government is not excluded from the construction proceedings, so that governments really have a chance, and, among other things, in territorial proceedings, to express their views on these matters. That is why we regulate and extend the competence of the regional council and, by analogy, municipal councils in the case of local planning documentation. First of all, the regional council, the municipal council and the city, should be obliged to approve a territorial study carried out by the regional authority, which is acquired for the territory of the municipality or part of the municipality. This means, in Section 24, the Regional Council and the Regional Council would approve a territorial study carried out by the Regional Authority, in the case of the municipality and the city it would be the approval of a territorial study carried out for the territory of the municipality or part thereof. The target is clear. We want the authorities to control territorial development, including at the level of the territorial study, not only at the level of the zoning plan, but also at the level of the territorial study, to control the direction in which the territory concerned will develop. And that territorial study approved by the council of the self-governing community would serve as a technical basis for further decision-making. That is why we want to achieve this and why we do not want to take this authority from the authorities. We believe that, and in general, this is one of the principles that we have introduced here, and this has been discussed by colleague Martin Kupka and others, we want citizens through elected authorities, whether at the level of municipalities, cities or regions, to have the utmost influence on the direction in which the territory in question will develop. So I will ask for the support of this amendment, like the one concerning expropriation, so that we may, if possible, safeguard ownership rights. Allow me to make the third amendment tabled by my colleague, Jiří Mihola, to which I signed up in a detailed debate at second reading. It is under House document 7977 and relates to marginal things or small things, and these are forest kindergartens. I'll just explain what's going on. I completely misunderstood why there is a negative opinion of the Economic Committee. [[11.00 hours]] I would like to remind you that forest kindergartens are a species of this preschool education facility, which is recognised by school law. The education of children in them takes place mainly in outdoor areas, it is clear from the name of the forest kindergarten. According to the school law, the facilities for the forestry kindergarten must not be a construction, which is usually interpreted as being a product fulfilling the function of the construction, but not a building connected with the country. Therefore, the amendment introduced by Jiří Mihola proposes that, given the nature of forest kindergartens, schools, their background could be placed in a similar way outside the built-up territory - it is not something that we would create new - but similar to what they have, for example. environmental or information centres. It is also proposed that the background of a forestry kindergarten, which is a product fulfilling the function of a building and does not have an additional function of housing or recreation, should be considered to be so called. A small building. And as we know, we can place it without appropriate permission, but only in accordance with the construction law and the planning documentation. Similarly, small structures are considered e.g. even smaller buildings for hunting, etc. So we want to straighten the situation, because of course the organization, or the institute of the forest nursery school, is relatively new, so it does not copy what is common for small buildings for hunting, just as it does not copy the possibilities of ecological or information centres located outside the built-up territory, that is the point. Therefore, this amendment is based on what, in my view, should be in agreement with all those sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies and with the Ministry of Regional Development. So these are the amendments I wanted to ask for support on. Now, allow me to finish what I didn't do in the last hearing, and that is to interpret the resolution of the Pardubice Regional Representation, which concerns the recodification of building law. I will not read the introduction of the explanatory report, but only the position that we have been asked to introduce to the Chamber of Deputies, including the public, during the hearing. It is six points, it is not very long, so I would like to read it in full, as the Pardubice Region's representativeship, where Martin Kolovratník also sits, by the way, with the rapporteur of this press, voted. 1. Leaving a connected model of public administration on the construction law section. It is a long-term proven functional model of public administration, which is staffed. The agenda is distributed evenly throughout the Czech Republic, resulting in a very good knowledge of the territory. The argument of systemic bias is marginal, moreover the systemic bias has been resolved by the amendment of the Administrative Order under the legislative initiative of the Pardubice Region. - You may remember, we voted on this a year and a half ago, so the amendment, which partially addressed it, dealt with the systemic bias in a significant way, a frequent argument, perhaps the Minister, so we're over it. - The United Model also represents a proven lower cost of performance agendas. - That's what I think is important at the time of covido and povidova, when we will really be and the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Finance will be turning every crown. - The contribution to the exercise of the delegated powers is about 60 per cent. The United Model also brings the possibility of connecting more agendas with regard to the delegated and separate scope of individual municipalities. 2. Accent on the process side of building law and its adaptation in terms of acceleration and simplification. Indeed, the current procedural model is unsustainable in the long term. The chaining of administrative operations should be removed. - So I'm sure we're in harmony here. - The proposal for a new construction law brings at least a certain combination of agendas, the demise of independent territorial and building proceedings. Everything should lead to a single authorisation process. This proposal is halfway, should be paid attention to it and should be further developed, as it is this path that can bring about acceleration and simplification of the whole process. 3. Digitization of building law. Together with the process adaptation, the process of digitising building law needs to be fully involved. It is absolutely inevitable to set up the Construction Portal as the only access point where all the participants will enter the process. If this succeeds, this will mean a substantial shortening of the time limits and through the Built-in Portal it will be possible to ensure that all the institutions concerned comment on one dossier in a uniform manner and at one time. With the correct setup and readable digital track, it will be possible to ensure a thorough back-check of the inputs of the whole process. By digitizing and setting up the Built-in Portal, it will finally be ensured that expensive and powerful computing is not only used as a typewriter in the construction process. 4. Integration of the authorities concerned. The authorities concerned actually cause disproportionate extension of the building authorisation process. - I think we're in agreement with the Ministry here. - Practically do not comment on one version of documentation, the activities do not run at the same time, on the contrary, the procedures are chained. As a result, binding opinions are not factually coordinated. 5. Accent on the financial side of the recodification of building law. A study calculating the cost of recodification associated with institutional change has never been properly prepared. Conjectures are very diverse and have no real basis. It should be noted that the Government Ministry of the Interior itself drew attention to the disproportionate financial intensity in the material called Impact Study of Recodification of Construction Law, institutional changes. According to this study, the proposed recodification of construction law by the Ministry of Regional Development cannot be considered appropriate, since the fundamental objectives of this recodification of construction law, which is a substantial simplification of the procedural law, virtually. Substantial institutions of building law can also be achieved in a substantially or less substantially modified variant of the existing institutional form of construction offices within a connected model of public administration performance. 6. Strengthening the role of a factually competent methodological body. By transferring the agenda from cities, municipalities and regions to the state office, we will not get rid of problems with human factors. We will only get rid of this by system solutions and clear methodologies, whether the role of the Methodical Authority is taken over by the New Supreme Building Authority, which will be separated from the Ministry of Regional Development, or will be paid more attention to the Ministry of Regional Development. The unifying methodology should be directed into the territory and the emphasis should be placed on the processes taking place in the different parts of the territory as far as possible. This is therefore a quoted position approved by the council of the Pardubice Region. I considered it important as a Member to introduce you to him. And now, in the third part of my speech, I would like to concentrate on what we are coming up with in this, say, democratic opposition, with this complex amendment, which sometimes is inaccurate or incorrect - I do not want to suspect that intentionally - misinterpreted. We really paid great attention to the work and the amount of time, while pursuing the goals where we agree with the Ministry and the government. We want a fully digital building process. However, we want to prevent the emergence of a whole system of new expensive and unnecessary offices under the head of one building super office. By the way, the billions that it would cost will, I am convinced, be needed elsewhere in the state budget and public finances. The time ahead will not be easy, so I consider this to be a waste of public funds. But there is still one thing that has also been pointed out here, and that is a complete paralysis of the building procedure, because if we go the way that is so far indicated here in the form of Mr Kolovratník's amendment, it will actually mean that, in the months following the entry into force of the law, those not hundreds will have to move, but thousands of officials, when not only officials will move, but also all agendas, and when it can actually lead to a complete paralysis of the building procedure in the order of months, maybe even a few years. And I am convinced that we cannot afford this, because if the prediction is that, among other things, we have to invest out of a possible crisis, we need a functional, quick construction process and it is not possible to risk the huge problems of both personnel and institutional, given the interests of a particular group of actors in the building process and the construction process. There's another thing. I believe that we must defend the interests of citizens here. After all, a builder's citizen has the right to do as close to himself as possible all the necessary things and not have to travel any further. Unfortunately, at the moment when we go through centralization, which at this point suggests a government solution, we are getting into the following problems: Indeed, this fundamental problem is the institutional form where the mixed public administration model that works here is being liquidated. I remind you, against are municipalities and cities, the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities is absolutely clear, against is the Association of Regions, against are other actors. At the same time, there is a threat to the protection of public interests. Minister Zaorálek spoke of this in terms of cultural heritage and conservation. A number of colleagues and environmental protection, the natural wealth of the landscape, have been discussed here. I think these things really have a very close connection. [[11.10 hours]] The mixed model of public administration, the way it's worked since the 19th century, in this way, actually destruct it, I think it's a mistake. The effects that it should have were already heard from my mouth here. It is an imminent destruction and a halt to the ongoing construction process, it is a denial of subsidiarity, a fundamental principle that we believe is to apply in the public administration. That means he's supposed to be close to the citizen, not that we're supposed to distance those trials from the citizen. Of course, in a situation where the proceedings are digitized, it may be easier, but in many cases, it will not be left but for the citizen to handle it personally with the clerk. In that case, in my opinion, it is not appropriate for us to withdraw the proceedings from the citizen in this way. Another thing that may be very problematic is that the buildings - at the same time, it is true that the construction office controls the course of the construction itself, and that the supervisory officer will no longer be in those local construction offices in those municipalities and cities, but will be somewhere outside, considerably distant, so of course he will not be supervised by the way the construction is carried out, he will not know the territory concerned. Very often there can be problems with black buildings here. And who's gonna deal with this? The problem will end up in municipalities and cities. Again, they will be municipalities and cities that will have to deal with the fact that there is no supervisory function on the part of the construction office. Another major problem is the problem of personnel. When we were working to preserve the current combined model of public administration, and at the same time to meet those objectives, that is, quick, simple, construction proceedings - I'm going to talk about it in a minute - we did a quick survey and it showed that 60 percent of the current workers of the construction offices have no interest in moving under state administration. So I'm asking who's gonna stop this building proceeding from being completely paralyzed. I have spoken with many mayors in the last few days and weeks, and those mayors, Madam Secretary, repeatedly said to me: "We are actually looking forward to it. Because when this happens, we're just gonna keep those building officials, we've got some trade unions of investment, property, construction, and so on. We need a high-quality clerk. They're good people, they don't want to go under any government, under the law of the service, and we're practically gonna make money on it, and we're gonna have an extra office. But I'm afraid that the negative impact will be with you, it'll be at the level of the building process, and we shouldn't risk that, and we shouldn't let that happen. There's another dimension. The Prime Minister has repeatedly made public appearances with criticism of the Service Act. He himself says, I think that even Mr. Kolovratník can confirm that no more foot under the law of service. And I still haven't heard from him whether he's aware at all, or whether it was tactfully accepted and withheld from him, that the solution with which Mr Kolovratník comes means about 13,000 new officials under service law. So I would also like to know the Prime Minister's position maybe before we actually vote for the whole change. Those are just pierced problems that bring about the destruction of a functioning public administration model. Once again, I point out that we will keep it, so by the proposal that we and our colleagues from ODS, Pirates, STAN, TOP 09 and from us from KDU-ČSL, but by emphasis on digitization, on clear deadlines, we are actually creating space for this objective of quick construction to be met here. On average 90 days, for smaller buildings even 60 days. So we're a long way from the 246 number, if I'm not mistaken. This is Central Africa and the Czech Republic. With the more complex constructions, we get to maybe 120 days. But it is met by the objective set by the Minister, but we do not have to go into the enormous risk she is taking through Mr Kolovratník. I haven't touched any other areas at all. The question of expropriation was mentioned in the amendment. Black buildings. The question of spatial planning, when we believe that those powers should remain largely in the municipalities and cities. It's about the centralization of counter-centralization again. We believe that the development of their city, their community, is to really be decided by elected representatives there. That makes sense, and that's what we want to keep. In our proposal, we agree with Mr Kolovratník's proposal that three major cities - Prague, Brno and Ostrava - should be allowed to have their own urban building regulations. Of course, the territories are very specific, and it's okay like this. In the end, even though that was not the case during the negotiations, we actually came to an agreement here. We can imagine support and support a number of other positive amendments, regardless of who makes them, for both prints 1008 and 1009. But as a whole. In a situation where there is really a great deal of uncertainty, huge problems, a slowdown in the building process, not acceleration, we cannot imagine voting for something like this. When we are on the table - we didn't just come up with criticism, but in addition to criticism we bring a clear positive solution, and that is the comprehensive amendment tabled by colleague Martin Kupka, who fulfils the objectives set by the government and at the same time doesn't go into the risk. It's not a risk, it's not a cost, it's not that it's not actually gonna work. Unfortunately, I am convinced that even the whole negotiation process here is not entirely fair. I must say that the Minister is here now in the position of the driver of the steam war, who is carrying out here through the ANO, the SPD and the KSČM movement, and is trying to benefit a certain group, I will say very openly, those big developers, to enforce such a construction process that will benefit them, and I consider that to be unfortunate. And, for example, when there is talk about the fact that the Union of Towns and Municipalities has given a negative opinion on everything, that is not true. We have also dealt with representatives of the Union of the City and the Village. President Lukl clearly said that there was an agreement with the Ministry of Regional Development that was not violated by the SMO, which was, unfortunately, violated by the Ministry of Regional Development, which, through Mr Kolovratník, then submitted that quasi-government amendment. I am sorry that neither such a fundamental standard nor a government is able to respect clearly the agreements that were with the representatives of those key actors. Because municipalities and cities are the key players that the construction proceedings will touch regardless of what law will be passed here in the finals. So I firmly hope that all this, dear colleagues, will be taken into account in the final vote and we will come to a solution that will benefit the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u31	I thank Mr Marek the Výborný. Before the words of my colleague Čižinský, who is next, I will say two apologies, Jiří Mihola from 9am to 10pm for work reasons and Jan Bauer's colleagues from 11pm for the whole day for work reasons. Now, then, Mr Jan Čižinský, Radek Holomčík will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am very upset about the way this is discussed here. No one responds to very serious objections. I guess I'd sum it up by saying, "Let them fuck off, we're used to it." After all, we had it this morning. This morning, the professors here, the hospital directors, the clinic chiefs described what happened, and the secretary came in and said it wasn't like that. Unfortunately, we are discussing a law where there will be a large number of cases where reason will cost us. [[11.20 hours]] You want to banish the building next to the stack, someone is going to smash the square with a shopping mall, you want to beat trees, build a slope in the national park, flood the wetland, tear down the cultural monument - so all will now be decided by the people who will continue to come to you. They'll keep on with the people. Although officials at the construction offices fell and fall under the state today, the construction office was not so far away and people knew and knew each other and those construction offices are closer to the people. Now these people are supposed to be farther away. Yes, KSČM, SPD, probably part of the ČSSD is going to make this decision about the things I mentioned just move away from people. Our country is actually starting to belong to more and more super offices and ministries. It's actually a process that's completely the opposite of what it should be. Our country is becoming more and more centralized, and the centralization is quite easy. At least getting that toothpaste back into that tube, and what would be needed, that decentralization, that's a much more complicated process, and it's going to be a much bigger job to fix it. The government and the ministries are only supposed to take as much authority as they necessarily need. And this House wants to go in the opposite direction. And they're the parties that have centralization in their blood that are pushing the law here, and they don't respond to our objections, and I have to say, it really pisses me off. I would like to return briefly to Mr Martin Kolovratník's speech when we discussed the construction law here on Wednesday, May 5, and to his argument about the quality of the amendment to the construction law, which - I am not alone - still surprises us very unpleasantly. In the context of the comprehensive amendment, with its comprehensive proposal, the Member has backed up the authority of two legal and economic figures, Dr Kadečka, Professor Mejstřík - unfortunately, they are no longer among us, so they cannot comment on this. It was also said that today and daily, the Member is in contact with Dr Vojtěch Vomáčka. It's a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. And he concluded here that when such authorities say, "Yes, this is the right, reasonable way," that's just the way it is, and it's not to be questioned. But when someone here is patronizing himself with the authorities of the Supreme Administrative Court judges, I would like to quote from the opinion of the Supreme Administrative Court on the building bill in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. The President of the Supreme Administrative Court, Mazanec, stated, among other things - I quote: "In view of the scope and nature of the above comments, we do not recommend continuing the preparation of the proposal in its current form.' And I just want to remind you that the trial was such that there was a review procedure, that the law had some sort of discussion, and then it all came back and came back. That's why we have ministers here who are very good at defending their resort here, very good at defending our monuments, our nature, our health care and saying here - government ministers are saying here: what you are about to approve is wrong. So what's the procedure for this law? So people who mean well with our nature, with our monuments, with our health, hope that the law may, unfortunately, be passed, but then it will be abolished. That's a possible procedure, of course, but it's a bad procedure, because it's not gonna be that easy. I was talking about the toothpaste in the tube. Centralization, it always goes easily, decentralization, which is much more necessary, a process that would really help our country, is much more laborious, so it won't just go away. And now I want to say what the biggest mistake of this procedure is. When I look away from the fact that the procedure is completely flawed: it is to approach people, it is to decentralize, but it is the other way around. But when I look away from it, a very important document of agreement in that territory is a zoning plan. The zoning plan is under construction law. And what's happening now? Now what's happening is that this central building office, which will officially have no connection at all, or any official, or any connection whatsoever to self-government, will decide on the territorial plans that have been created under another law. I would still understand if it were now five years to create usable territorial plans in cities and municipalities, and then perhaps it was suggested here - I would not agree with it, but I would understand - that a central building office should be put in place, which will decide on those territorial plans and within the territorial plans. I'd still be willing to understand that. I wouldn't vote for it, I would vote against it, but I would be willing to understand it. But that doesn't happen here at all. So I'm repeating what's going to happen, and that's: those land plans don't count in their large majority, considering that they're going to be judged by some central building office. Creating a zoning plan in large cities lasts much longer than five years, there is no exception in large cities when the zoning plan lasts six or seven years, unfortunately in many cities then the zoning plan is even contested by the court and the court cancels the plan. So here we are getting into a situation where opponents of buildings will always have the opportunity to go to court, get in touch with the government, put the building in court, and they'll take advantage of it very often. And please, let's not really bagate it. The fact that the builders will meet in court is just a certainty. If this law passes, they'll need more lawyers and lawyers than designers. And really, I'm not wrong about that. Because today the authorities are willing to moderate the agreement in that territory precisely because they are owned by the construction authorities, that they are unable to explain that the construction office does not belong to them, even though it is not. This will go away, and so the authorities will go to court together with the people. In conclusion, I would like to withdraw my amendment 8006, so I will then ask for a vote on the withdrawal of the amendment, which was optional, so I would like to withdraw one of the options, House document 8006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Radek Holomčík in the debate, Tomáš Martínek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u34	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the amendment to the construction law that we are discussing here today. I'm quite terrified of how much to one, virtually. two related prints have been criticized as to how many complaints are heard from various directions. It's not just the opposition. It's a professional public, it's an academic sphere, it's people who run the landscape, it's different professional associations that deal with the partial aspects of the building process and a number of other things. And at the same time, how the zero reflexes here took place. I will focus on two topics that are to a large extent closest to me, and that is agricultural land and that is forests. In the Houses of Press 1009, which is basically a set of amending laws related to the amendment of the Construction Act, there are several passages dealing with these areas. And the change, which makes me very, very nervous, is that we take the authority of competent authorities to decide whether to stop both agricultural land and forests, forest land. Basically, the press says that if there is to be a farmland or land for forest functions, the competent authorities will not decide on this act, which are, in the case of land, the authorities of the agricultural soil fund, in the case of land intended for forest functions, it is the state management of forests, but it will go under the construction super-office. I would just like to remind you that this agricultural land is more than two thirds of the agricultural land reserves, linked to the construction process. And that number is growing gradually, for understandable reasons. So we're actually ripping out government bodies that have some expertise that judge these things in a broader context, and we're putting it on some other office. I certainly do not want to reduce the competence of civil servants from the construction offices, they certainly have their expertise focused in some direction, but I do not think it is right, and I am certainly not alone in this to make decisions about such important things as forests and such as agricultural land completely outside the system. No one can accuse the pirát and me personally of suffering from some uncritical admiration for work, whether the authorities of agricultural land protection or the state administration of forests. We have been involved throughout the Republic in a number of places to criticize trades, various agricultural land holdings with different transhipment sites and similar areas. As far as the forest administration is concerned, I personally have been pushing for several years to order the Department of Agriculture to carry out a forensic in-depth analysis of how it was created, what outbreaks were and how the barking calamity spread. It's not because Holomčík wants to see blood, as Minister Toman says, but it's precisely to look at the problem that we're experiencing here and which we're still feeling quite fully, and to identify the weak spots in the government and possibly to come up with some elements of reform or to change the system so that it just works for the future and things like this don't happen. Unfortunately, here we are seeing when instead of having fun, how to improve the functioning of environmental protection, how to improve the functioning of state administration, the management of the countryside, we just shut it down. Like this. And that's supposed to be something. I just want to make a little point. If the petitioners and advocates of this proposal consider that the authorities of the protection of the agricultural soil fund do not work well, that they delay, that it is completely useless, then I ask: what have you been doing for seven years? Because the protection of the original agricultural fund is simply part of the Ministry of Environment's strategy. And I'm not saying it's not an attack on Minister Brabec right now. You're basically saying what we've been able to reform for eight years doesn't work that way. On the contrary, I think we should approach our landscape in a completely different way in these times. Completely different, systematic. We should not try to castrate protection, simply castrate efforts to achieve some sustainable management in the landscape. On the contrary, we should look at it comprehensively, we should solve an embarrassment with the name territorial development policy of the Czech Republic, which is simply intended to address territorial development, which is designed to address the possibility of living in the Czech Republic, but in reality, when you look at it, there is only a pendant in the landscape so that it does not say "something we write there, as something is being dealt with" but, in fact, the landscape is missing. And yet the landscape is the place that gives us the water that gives us the food that gives us the air we breathe. We're here some time ago - and I'm going to go to specific points to avoid unnecessary delays - to address food self-sufficiency, or food quotas. Do you know what the foundation of food self-sufficiency is? It's certainly not some pasquilistic quota proposal, even poorly written. The foundation of food self-sufficiency is soil. It's soil! And if we don't proceed very strictly and systematically to soil protection, which simply castrates this proposal - I apologize for the word, but it's just a castration of soil protection. If we do not approach protection and in many places unfortunately also the necessary restoration of land systematically, honestly and carefully, as what are we going to produce here for food? What are we gonna eat? What's going to happen to this country? I am surprised that, for the most part, the same Members who voted in favour of quotas here on the pretext of some kind of food self-sufficiency are now supporting the design of the construction law, which basically only takes the landscape as a space where we can build, but the aspects of water, air, food that the landscape gives us are not at all addressed and are not really taken into account. In a better case they are not taken into account, in a worse case they are considered to be something useless. There are several proposals in the House system for tightening up the law to protect the agricultural soil fund. Again, let us see who makes these proposals and who votes in favour or who supports this version of the construction law. I just don't get it. After all, it is not as one proposal to say "we will tighten up the removal of the agricultural original fund, we will tighten the stopping of the land, because it is generally irreversible or very difficult to return things" and at the same time support the fact that we will get any protection of the agricultural soil fund outside the system. Another thing that has to do with it and which is now going through the House is the law on hunting. We're arguing about how big hunting is supposed to be, we're arguing about what rights the owner is supposed to have on the chase, but at the same time this foundation - these are of course important things - is what the animals will have on the landscape, what space they will have to live. And again, this building bill doesn't really solve this at all, it doesn't even matter. He's not supposed to deal with it, but he's not supposed to be written that we don't really care what our country is going to be like. That's what the law says. And I have some opinions here that actually criticize these things that I'm talking about. The Academy of Sciences commented on this. They spoke to the hunter, even the gardeners. The farmers, the Wood and Forestry Chamber, commented on this. Basically, everyone says very similar things: we just can't gamble with our landscape, we can't gamble with our forests and with the soil. It's just non-refundable stuff. Or at least irreversible in the context of human life expectancy. [[11.40 hours]] I would therefore like to ask you to support my amendments to the system under the letter E, which are trying to remedy at least a little of this frightening situation, which seeks to return the supervision of the agricultural land industry and the management of land intended to fulfil the function of the forest back into the hands of the competent authorities. I believe that, after the elections, there will be room for entertainment, how individual civil servants work, how individual nature conservation elements work, and there will be a reasonable discussion on how to move it forward, so that it really works, so that we can protect nature, so that we have a landscape in such a state that we can live well in it, but at the same time not simply slow down development. Nobody wants that. I'd like to finish my performance by asking the Minister. A moment ago, I was asked by the chairman of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, Franta Lukl, if I could ask you how you invented hiring employees at the construction super office, especially those detached workplaces. How do you manage that it really will be in those municipalities where the dedicated workplace should be? Because it's not in the law, and there's a lot of questions between the mayors. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u35	Thank you. Before a colleague Tomáš Martínek is present, Mr Jan Čižinský is registered with a factual remark. But before that, I will read the apology of Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, who apologizes from today's day of meeting. Now, therefore, the factual remark of my colleague Čižinský. He's not here, so he's failing. In that case, a colleague... [[Cižinski's comin' up to the microphone.]] Well, you have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u36	Thank you. Thank you. And thank you for your indulgence. Like this, I would actually ask if there will be any reaction to the objections that are being raised here, or if it really is a style: so let them piss, we're used to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u37	Now colleague Tomáš Martínek in his performance. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u38	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to read some of the important challenges that Members have received. First, I would like to read a letter from representatives of the Liberec Region. "Dear Member, I would like to inform you that the newly elected Council of the Liberec Region discussed at its first proper meeting on 10 November 2020 including confirmation of the opinion of the Liberec Region on the draft amendment to the construction law currently under discussion in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Council of the Liberec Region by Resolution No. 83/VI/20/RK confirmed its initial dissenting opinion on the proposed recodification of the construction law already adopted by Resolution No 83/VI/20/RK. 2311/19/MRK of 13. 12. 2019. This resolution subsequently approved - No. 614/19/ZK of 17. 12. 2019 - also the Representation of the Liberec Region, as amended by: We do not agree with the proposed break-up of the connected public administration model by tearing the construction offices out of this connected model. We have nothing against the establishment of the Supreme Building Office as the central body of the state administration for the construction agenda, but we consider the creation of a special system of construction offices in the territory to be redundant because it does not address the nature of the problem of contemporary building law - its procedural complexity and complexity. We believe that the current municipal - whose number and staff can be discussed further - and also the regional construction authorities are fully able to apply the new construction law in the final version properly in practice for the methodological assistance of the newly established Supreme Building Office. If the MMR were to withdraw from the proposed institutional changes in question, there would also be much more room for a substantive expert discussion on the form of a new building law, when the regions and municipalities may even understand its need. At the same time, we refer to the Council of the Czech Association of Regions of 6. 12. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue entered in Item 6 0 3 3 of the statement of revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. 152 in point III, the Council rejects the MMR's intention to remove the construction offices from the associated public administration model and also rejects the MMR's intention to limit the MMR's scope to local authorities in favour of the MMR and promotes respect for the existing state of division of competences in this section'. The text of the new building law provides certain certain positive elements: for example, the introduction of an appeal principle, i.e. the duty of the superior body to decide on the matter, not only to disturb the contested decision and to return the matter, to introduce the digitalisation of the building agenda, to abolish the duality of the territorial and construction proceedings, to make the building proceedings substantially faster and to find other positive points for the new legal standard. That is why, in our opinion, it is first necessary to remove the fundamental issue of the recodification of building law from the point of view of municipalities and regions - institutional changes - and then jointly resolve other issues, in particular the number, importance and protection of individual public interests in the proceedings. In the current situation, however, we are asking the Prime Minister and the Minister for Regional Development to suspend the process of approving the recodification of building law and to initiate negotiations to remove the most fundamental issue - the extraction of building offices from the connected model of public administration. Dear Member, I would like to ask you to take this view into account when discussing the proposal for a new construction law by the Authority of the Region in which you were elected to the Chamber of Deputies and to consider your possible support for this proposal, while also taking into account the long-term negative opinion of the Council of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic, the Liberec Region and a number of cities and municipalities in its territory, in particular in view of the serious breach of the principle of the connected model of public administration that the amendment would bring. With respect, Martin Půta." Furthermore, I would like to read some of the recommendations that he has sent us, in fact, to all Members, I presume, a recommendation of the State's reconstruction on some aspects of the Government's draft building bill, press number 1008, as amended by the comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee and press 1008/7. The reconstruction of the State, referring to the position of its guarantors, recommends the support of amendments which lead to the reduction of potential corruption risks and the strengthening of transparency and digitisation of the designed procedures. In view of this, we recommend the approval of amendments O1 to O4 number 7968 by Martin Kolovratník, M number 8003 by Ondřej Polanský and C1 by C2 number 8018 by Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš. For transparent, anti-corruption and digitization - characteristics of amendments Nos 7968, 8003 and 8018. Characteristics of Amendment No 768 of Martin Kolovratník: The amendment introduces the professional responsibility of the responsible officials for defending the relevant public interest law. Furthermore, the proposal introduces a mandatory fixed and public timetable for the work of the Supreme and Specialised Building Office. Characteristics of Amendment 8003 Ondřej Polanský: The amendment introduces an obligation for the construction log to be kept in electronic form when the construction is the subject of a public contract under an over-the-limit regime. Characteristics of Amendment 8018 by Martin Kupka and Ivan Bartoš: The amendment defines the basic conditions for keeping a building log and a simple record of the building in electronic form and regulates the procedure for entering a person in this journal without a user account in the relevant contractor's system. About Amendment 768 to the press 1008, as amended by the press 1008/7, in more detail. Practical problems of the original bill - print 1008 as amended by KPN HV in print 1008/7, which create a corruption risk and which solves the proposal of Mr Martin Kolovratník number 768: [[11.50 hours]] One. The civil servants of the building office are bound by the instructions of the superiors, who are from another field of public service, in the processing of expert opinions. This threatens the legal effect of the professional opinion of the interests promoted by the superior of professional officials. Two. The law allows for the assignment of files on purpose. As a result, the decision can be influenced only by a special selection of the official. The solution proposed in Amendment 768 by Mr Martin Kolovratník is to establish, firstly, the professional responsibility of officials and the transparency of their decisions and, secondly, the firm and public schedule of the work of the Supreme and Specialised Building Office. Ad 1. It is proposed that the law expressly establish the principle of professional responsibility of civil servants in the integrated decision-making of the building offices. Compliance with the requirements for the protection of each of the public interests concerned may be assessed by an official with appropriate qualifications, which shall be responsible for the fulfilment of those conditions and whose assessment shall be binding. Ad 2. It is proposed to establish a publicly accessible work schedule for the Supreme Building Office and a Specialised Construction Office to prevent special-purpose interventions in the assignment of cases to individual officials. About Amendment 8003 to the press 1008, in print 1008/7, in more detail. Practical problems of the original draft press law 1008 as amended by KPNHV in print 1008/7, which solves proposal No. 8003 of Mr Ondřej Polanský: One. The obligation to keep an electronic building journal in additional public contracts, if any, already exists under the existing version of the construction act. It was introduced in 2020 as part of the amendment to the Act on Acceleration of Transport Infrastructure Construction. However, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Construction Act no longer counts on it. Point 2. The building journal in paper form is subject to higher risk of damage, loss or manipulation of records, and thus limited possibility of effective control of works, increased risk to corruption, complicated evidence in litigation. The solution proposed in Amendment No 8003 of Mr Ondřej Polanský is to maintain the existing obligation to keep an electronic building diary for buildings which are subject to a public contract under an over-the-counter regime, as well as a new building law. Since I didn't have time to read the whole letter, I'm gonna apply again, and I'm sure I won't miss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u39	Thank you. I'm registering your application. And now Mr Tomáš Vymazal will be speaking and František Navrkal will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to a text that bears the name Four City Articles, and it is the demands of large cities to support the bill of construction. I would like to start with the motto that hit me and which says here the authorities: the better the planning, the easier the building authorisation. They also provide a quote from the European Charter of Local Government, which states in Article 4 (3): The answer for public matters will usually be borne mainly by the authorities closest to the citizen. And that's actually where the demands of the municipal authorities are based, on which they categorically insist and subject them to the support of this amendment. Part A, Four city artifacts where the authorities categorically insist, as I said. Firstly, the right of territorial planning in a separate area of competence. The representative of the municipality or region may decide that the regulatory plan, the zoning plan, the principles of territorial development or their amendment shall be carried out by the municipality or the region in its own jurisdiction. Secondly, it is still within the framework of point 1 - all other procurement rules are maintained, or, as today, procurement is carried out by qualified officials, as the States concerned today do by the authorities. The Supreme Building Authority and the Government are now resolving the contradictions, the self-government may defend itself by suing the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Building Office ensures supervision, may suspend the territorial planning documentation and file a motion for its annulment to the Constitutional Court. At the first point, I would like to point out that we are seeing a problem concerning conservation, but my fellow Member, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, will introduce you to the details of this problem as part of his performance, so I will not go into the details. Second point, second artifact. The article is called Urban Construction Regulations and reads: Within the limits of the construction law, large cities can define the requirements for construction in more detail by decree of the council, that is, the requirements for the definition of land, the requirements for the placement of buildings and technical requirements for constructions, and supervision is carried out by the Supreme Building Office, which may submit a motion for annulment of the regulation or its part to the Constitutional Court. Third Articul - The seat of the Supreme Building Office. For many reasons, the Supreme Building Office should be located in a well available place outside Prague, for example in Ostrava, Hradec Králové, Olomouc, Liberec, Litomyšl, Kroměříž and so on. The need to compensate Prague and other regions and cities is obvious, it has better availability of quality new employees than in Prague, it is, I would say, offered. The expression of respect for self-government and regions also results from this. It's actually a strengthening of independence and a kind of beginning of a new era. Fourth Articul - Completion of territorial plans. Due to the enormous intensity and cost of the preparation of the new urban planning of many cities so far, it is necessary in transitional provisions to allow them to be completed and valid in accordance with the existing regulations. Territorial and regulatory plans approved before the application of this Act shall be considered as territorial and regulatory plans under this Act. The procurement of territorial and regulatory plans and their changes initiated before the effectiveness of this law is completed in accordance with the existing regulations. So these were the four artifacts on which the authorities insist unconditionally, and they can't really support this amendment of the construction law without them being fulfilled. But the text has another part, it's the other requirements of the authorities to discuss and incorporate, which is divided into about three or four sections. The first, the general principles, says: to return to the opening parts of the law the principles of weighing interests with emphasis on the assessment, protection and development of the territory as a whole. The state construction administration ensures the protection and fair balance of public and private interests. To this end, it shall ensure, measure and coordinate those interests, assess their importance and seek to prevent their contradictions. Two. In the event of contradictions of more public interests, the building authority shall compare their importance and seriousness in order to ensure that interference with any of them does not exceed the benefits of its adverse consequences. Three. Application of public interest protection requirements shall not lead to undue prejudice to other public interests and to distortions or impairment of the nature, potential and values of the territory as a whole. Then there's the zoning section, which contains the following four points: The authorities themselves request that the right of municipalities to include in the territorial planning documentation conditional on the planning contract, the conclusion of which the municipality would make subject in its territorial or regulatory decision-making plan in the territory. They also request the addition of the right of municipalities to prepare also territorial analytical documents and territorial studies and the right to comment on territorial analytical documents and territorial studies prepared by the purchaser. [[12.00 hours]] Furthermore, compensation should be added for the assessment of the territory by changing the land planning documentation on request, namely in the version to the comments and the owner of the land or construction, whose value has been increased as a result of the issuance of the land planning documentation, is obliged to pay a fee for the assessment under another legislation. Here's a reference to the Local Charges Act. The fourth point in this section is to strengthen the protection of good faith, trust and legal certainty in the applicable territorial planning documentation when it is repealed. And the second-to-last section, called material law, is a little bit longer, so in any case, I'm just going to try to poke some points out of it: Following the principle of weighting of interests, self-governments ask for adequate restrictions on strict requirements for construction in areas where it is not possible or appropriate to comply, in particular for existing historical buildings, in historical centres of cities or in protected areas. These are proportional restrictions on strict requirements for street width, distance, parking, lighting, hygiene of buildings and others, which are imposed by the new construction decrees, but cannot be reasonably met in specific territories, which prevent their restoration and use. They're summarized here: One. When deciding on changes in completed buildings, changes in the use of buildings and the authorisation of temporary buildings, the requirements for construction shall not apply if serious technical or constructional technical reasons exclude this or if their application would be manifestly economically inappropriate. Two. For land or buildings which are cultural monuments or are located in conservation reserves or conservation zones, the construction requirements shall not apply to the extent that they would be contrary to the prevailing public interest of state conservation care. And third - that's probably all I can say here in ten minutes - is that for land or buildings in a specially protected area, construction requirements will not apply to an extent contrary to the prevailing interest in environmental protection. Then I'll sign up for the debate to read it to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u41	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ondřej Benešík is registered. But since he's not here, with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seems rather undignified to me, therefore, that we have such a short period of time that we have to interrupt our colleagues, so I have decided that I will use my preferred right as my colleague, and I will finish Vymazal that opinion. So the next point to material law is: In connection with strengthening the role of cities in building regulations, it is necessary to define more closely, more modern and better the basic limits and requirements of material law directly in the law. In particular, it is to supplement the requirements, which were mostly in the version in the comments, in particular the public area, the support of pedestrians and cyclists, the so-called so-called settlement zones, the transit of the territory, in particular the interconnection of the streets and the maintenance of the passage along the watercourses. blue-green infrastructure - water elements etc., urban greenery, planting belts, greening of public spaces and public buildings, parking including the possibility of contributions and common solutions, fences and other barriers, protection of view sets in particular in contact with public spaces, networking of technical infrastructure networks into common routes, so-called. collectors, water supply solutions, waste water and precipitation water supply, insertion, use of renewable sources as well as advertising regulation. In the authorisation process, it is necessary to complement the position of the municipality as the institution concerned with an expression. It is not necessary in the case of land-use planning in a separate scope. So it's with the four city artifacts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u43	Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. You have your word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, I would like to ask - perhaps we could speed up the negotiations if the Minister also responded to the suggestions and questions that have been raised here. I didn't say it here in my speech for myself, for some Mr. Excellent. I have interpreted the concerns of hundreds of folklore, not just the mayors, but all those who are really concerned about what is going to happen and what happens with what is being presented here, but unfortunately the Minister is not responding to anything. It does not respond to questions relating to a mixed public administration model, it does not respond to questions relating to spatial planning, territorial studies, and I could go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. So if you, Madam Secretary, have decided to keep your mouth shut here and in style, so talk here, talk, spank, spank, and we will get to that vote one day, so I consider it undignified - not to us, but to the public, to those municipalities, mayors and others who would really like to hear the reaction of the Ministry of Regional Development, the reaction of the petitioner, because of course you are behind this amendment. So I really don't understand it, and maybe we could shorten the negotiations here if you actually decided to respond to what was said here rather than simply keep your mouth shut. I'm sorry! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u45	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights will speak now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u46	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr President. So, colleagues, I would just like to read to you from paragraph 95 of the Rules of Procedure: In the third reading, there is a debate that can only be proposed to correct legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or press editing, which logically results from the amendments tabled, or. submit a motion to repeat the second reading. Of course, I have tried to hear all the proposals when I see how many of you are still there, etc., to speak before the end of the debate and, of course, to all those points. But if you insist that I do it now, I will, of course, be happy to do it, because there is really no reason on my part to not respond to your suggestions in any way, but I wanted to do it at once, because many of your suggestions are repeated, so that I, of course, should listen to all my colleagues. You actually mentioned the transition of civil servants to the state. So, please, we just have to repeat this once again: Building is a state gesture, it's the authority of the state. For the State, it is done by the officials of the municipality who already exist today. Those officials in various forms of municipalities, whether they are doubles, troikas, or, of course, separate authorities as the authorities concerned, together, work about 13,000 people. No new officials will be accepted, of course, it will still be this army of people, and even because we are simplifying those agendas and simplifying them - and of course I also communicate with the mayors who are aware that if they had four people in the building office today, that they would need only two people in the future, the saving of the agenda is 40 percent, that means that less people will be needed for the performance of the state construction administration. We often come across why we want to transfer these civil servants to the state construction administration. So these are the officials of the state in charge, so, of course, in the future, we want it to be one hierarchy so that we can really ensure that one methodical approach towards all officials, because today, you know that the state actually communicates with the regions, the regions communicate with the municipalities, and unfortunately some information is missing in this process. I'm gonna repeat what I've said many times, that we're not different. In those processes, the complex amendments are basically the same in digitalisation. What makes us different is the institutional model where the House can simply decide this by voting. And why I insist on the pure civil service, that's very simple. For me it was absolutely, absolutely essential, and here I thank the President Excellent that he said it would actually happen acceleration, but to make those deadlines enforceable, because if we set the time limits by law, but the clerk would basically have no room for enforcement, it would be unapplicable. And in that model that you're actually proposing as opposition, it's just not enforceable. It's not like it's a criticism of a mixed model. That's just how it was set up here, there's, of course, a clash of these universes, which is why the courts judge systemic bias, because the municipality is also an investor and at the same time allows its officials to do the specific project. [[12.10 hours]] And if you look at my argument, I'm just here for the MPs who care. [[shows the supporting documents]] This is the current state of affairs shown on a particular region. You can see that there are, of course, such fragmented regions, on one there are two people, on one three, on one even one and so on. These authorities are separate. This means these officials cannot help these, these, and so on. So if more projects are uploaded to the building office, then in the personnel composition, as it is today, the officials cannot help themselves. That is why you are right to propose measures against inactivity in your opposition proposal. This means that if those sub-building offices aren't prosecuting the agenda, it's going to go to the higher construction office, which is currently the regional office. But there are ten people in that county office. At the same time, the ten people will take action against inactivity and also the appeal office. That means that ten people... again, no one can actually increase that number, and it's still going to be ten people. That means if there's more of these projects, all that's gonna happen is they're not gonna meet the deadline, and they're unenforceable. That means the builder's gonna be waiting again. And that's what we're going to do with the pure civil service, so that the officials can be represented. If I take the other things that have been going on here, of course, you've been dealing with how far away it will be from the citizen. So I would just like to remind you that we are not really different here in the proposals or opposition, which also cancels around 400 construction offices. So it's really very similar here. As far as the influence of self-government is concerned, it really needs to be said, as the court considers, that the systemic bias is, yes. It's a problem especially for the big cities. But the problem really is, and the amendment to the Administrative Code did not really solve it. What else would I mention, just how you were attacking how the building bill was being negotiated here? I just want to say that it's really been given a lot of time. I would even very much like to thank the Legislative Council of the Government, which devoted two days to this, very much indeed. It is not true that we are in conflict with the Supreme Administrative Court. The Supreme Administrative Court is now in conflict with the partial amendments relating to judicial review. As far as the compromise agreement is concerned, we need to look back into the past. We presented in November 2019 the proposal we sent to the Interreort, in January 2020, an agreement was made with the Union of Towns and Municipalities. There is a record from this agreement confirmed by President Lukl, Mr, probably Vice-President of the Association of Local Authorities, Kavala, where we clearly agreed that the Union of Towns and Municipalities wants the first-instance authorities to remain in the municipalities, with the fact that they will be there because of measures against inactivity - then the regional government will be already - that they will be as integrated as possible by the authorities concerned and that territorial planning should remain as it is today, in a delegated capacity, and that the municipality should always be a party to the proceedings. We have complied with this complete agreement and, as a government, we have accepted this proposal. And, worldly wonder, the government proposal, which fully respected the agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, gave the Union of Towns and Municipalities a negative opinion. So, of course, it was a new reality for us. And I'm really sorry, but I can't accept any hints that I didn't keep the deal. On the contrary, we actually kept it to a point, and then, of course, a dissenting position came up. Then you came across the fact that we should learn that the officials, of course, are in Benešov, so I would like to assure you all that the officials in Benešov are trained by the Ministry of Regional Development and that we are actually in very close contact with them. Then we've been dealing with local investigations here. But the local investigation isn't about the builder going to the construction office. The local investigation is that the clerk is going to the specific construction site. So here, just to get these terms straight, just the way it's supposed to be. To my government colleague, Mr. Zaorálek. Yes, the Minister does not really agree with the automatic machine that was put there as an amendment. No resort or Ministry of Regional Development agrees with this, so I will, of course, have a disagreeable opinion on these proposals. We've been discussing territorial studies here. As far as the territorial study is concerned, we really need to ask ourselves, as if, what is a territorial study. Because, of course, we see it as technical evidence. And if it's technical evidence, there's a question as to why it should be approved by the council. Because if we get it into this role, of course it's judicial reviewable if the council approves it, and at the same time you should have a public hearing, that means involving the public, and that's the question here if that's what you really want, because you're pre-empting regulatory plans here. That means, then you would basically turn the zoning study into a regulatory plan. But as I'm saying, I think we need to talk about these things, if that's what you really mean, you're replacing the zoning studies with regulatory plans. As far as the protection zones are concerned, it should be said that the protection zone is provided for by law. So I don't think there's any longer debate there. As far as hiring employees is concerned, what it's gonna be like. So again it is in the law, it is § 330, where the first decree has clear rules as to what it will look like. Otherwise, of course, the transition of these people will be based on tripartite agreements. And I must say, with many... [[A voice from the diaper.]] Excuse me? I've already dealt with many mayors in these matters. And I would just like to remind you once again that we are not really talking about official municipalities as such, it is the competence of the State, it is the competence of the Member State. And the only thing the state wants to do is actually secure the deadlines and all the stuff that comes with doing it on its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u47	Thank you, Minister. Now, with Mrs Věra Kovářová's factual point, then Mr Profant, also a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u48	I am very pleased that the Minister has spoken in the course of the debate, which is not common among government ministers, so thank you for that. However, the Minister has taught us about the Rules of Procedure. I am just reminding you that these quotes always appear at the moment when the opposition has comments on a bill. And the fact that you don't like the fact that different organizations are being read here, you should have thought about that, Madam Secretary, before you started doing the substantive purpose of this amendment of the law. And you should have invited all the organizations. Organisation of cities, municipalities, regions, expert organisations and Supreme Administrative Court. Perhaps then we would avoid reading different opinions. As for how important this centralisation is, we disagree absolutely, because you are quite opposed to the meaning of the reform of the public administration, which was launched 20 years ago, where decentralisation is very important. And you're saying that officials go under the state, that's not a very good solution, because the bad example here has been mentioned several times. At a time when social workers moved to the labour offices, these workers are still missing. And so I'm asking you why you insist on the model that will be under the administration, and you say here that the reason is the enforcement of deadlines. And when I look at the reasons that you mentioned at the beginning before the intention, they're completely different reasons. And maybe next time you or someone else will make a new law, please invite all the players involved in such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u49	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant will also appear, Mr Martin Kupka will be prepared - factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u50	Madam Secretary, I will speak about this in my speech, which I am waiting patiently for. However, it is not true that you support digitalisation. Both your ministry and the rapporteur, who is from the same side, are putting Amendment D1 before my proposals N9 to N22, and these are key proposals for digitalisation. For the digitization of spatial planning, which is really based on practice. Whoever wrote those opinions doesn't know clearly the planning practice, doesn't know the problems of urban planning, they can't distinguish that socialist housing estate looks different from classic first-class construction. And that's the problem. I'm going to give a detailed explanation here, but this is exactly a demonstration that it's not digitalization that you're giving an amendment that's just a subset that's such a shuffling to make something happen, but nothing happened. My proposal makes it possible to plan for really digitally planning, digitally changing, that all the functional elements of the territory will be clearly defined there, and so on, it will be useful, whereas if we leave painters there, it's just a paper scribbling that leads to the fact that in the middle of the housing estates that we have a full country, we can build houses and we can't regulate it, while, on the contrary, we can't de facto do the prime construction today, because we can't fit in there again. And that's because we can't distinguish that, so it's wrong. This is a specific example of digitalization yes - no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u51	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u52	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I want to respond to what is actually a territorial study, what can be expected of it, how territorial studies are made and what is the point. The law, present and future, gives them a clear role. They are part of the basic planning documentation and are taken into account when issuing building permits for territorial studies, with the fact that, of course, when the building authority decides and has a registered territorial study, it is logical for the final decision to be based, for example, on the way in which the territorial study defines the public area. Territorial studies are usually carried out for places that are considered in development areas, where the zoning plan provides basic regulation. It says, for example, what is the percentage of build-up, what are needed height limits for buildings. That belongs to the zoning plan. The territorial study goes into more detail and with the relevant technical background it says not only what height regulation is, but it also speaks about the shape of the buildings, the specific shape of the buildings in that area, in the development area, they will have a public area where they will lead the streets, what the street line will look like and, of course, where there will be places of separated waste. But these are important key things for the development of this place, for its future appearance. That is why we say that if territorial studies are to be done well, not only should they be discussed but should be approved in the council. Once again, if the government coalition says how it wants to strengthen self-government and does not give room for the approval of the council to be a condition of territorial studies, it can never say anything about wanting to support self-government again. Those problems that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u53	Sorry, time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Marek Výborný with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u54	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I thank the Minister for her performance. This is how it should be done throughout the negotiation process now at third reading. Just one follow-up question, Madam Secretary. There'd be more, but some of these colleagues have said something about the role of self-government. You said that all those officials would actually fluently go into your arms, under the state, into the state building process. So I want to ask you how you're gonna do it. What tools do you have to force them, those officials who now operate in municipalities and cities at individual construction offices, that they will actually go under state construction administration. I don't think you have the tool. But if you do have it, I'd be happy if you introduced him here. If you order them to, you'll force them by law or if you try to bribe them in any way and so on. I think it would be good for all of us to know this, because, once again, a number of mayors are waiting for it, because quality officials are actually keeping the expertise that municipalities and cities need to perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u55	Thank you. Mr Martin Kupka, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u56	I'll take the liberty of adding what was said. The secretary here said that the zoning study, of course, has less obligation than the zoning plan. No doubt, I am not questioning this at all, but the current practice that we are responding to with these proposals has unfortunately brought a number of serious problems, because it was possible to register a territorial study without the local government even speaking to it. I mentioned just a moment ago what all territorial studies include and how important they are in terms of the future form of the development area, because the zoning plan really cannot define all the details. It does so in territorial studies and will seriously affect the future. That is why it is important that this should not only be the subject of the council's deliberations, but of approval. And it is clear that this will still remain only part of the basic planning documentation that is being taken into account, but without the council's consent, you are giving room for things to continue to take place in that territory, which are necessary even contrary to the opinion of the self-government, and even contrary to good professional practice. Moreover, there is an amendment by Adam Kalous, which says that when the zoning plan or the zoning plan is cancelled does not apply, the territorial study has the power of the zoning plan. In that case, says the amendment, the territorial study has the power of the zoning plan. So I am clearly saying that without the territorial study being then subject to the approval of the council, you will allow yourself to find yourself outside the legal framework, and suddenly there will be a real basis prepared here without the approval of the council of the relevant city or municipality to determine the form of construction. Absolutely unacceptable!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u57	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Vymazal will now speak in the general debate, but he is not present at the moment, so I am moving him to the end of the enrollment. Mr Tomáš Navrkal is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, esteemed colleagues. Madam Secretary, I would just like to quote here the press release of the Union of State Authorities and Organisations, which raises big questions about how, in fact, such a reform that you are proposing here would lead to some acceleration. I'm quoting from the press release: The Trade Union of State Authorities and Organisations, in cooperation with the Association of Local Government of the Czech Republic, commissioned a survey on 5 March 2021, which responds to the current development of the construction law. According to some amendments, which were also supported by the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, is again considering transferring part of the current agenda from the local authorities to the new construction office under the state service regime. The 10th grade would be waiting for officials and clerks, recognition of examinations of special competence as an official examination. The Ministry has not yet communicated more details on the terms of the transfer of construction offices. Now there is a quote from Pavel Bednář's president: "There was a great deal of interest in the survey. A total of 1 274 people responded to it, although the survey was anonymous, a number of more detailed responses came to the trade union, which were critical of the whole proposal." In the survey, we asked first whether under such conditions there would be an interest in switching to the new office. This is not possible without the approval of the current employee or employee. Only less than half of the respondents, namely 40,7 percent, said that under known conditions, it would go into the new system. Another 26,6 percent of respondents assume that they will remain in another job with their current employer, such as the zoning agenda. The remaining 32.7 % then expects them to quit their jobs, to find a completely different job, or to retire, for example. We then asked whether the current employer would have to hand over their job to the new state authority, because the building proceedings agenda is fully or mainly carried out on them. Of these, 80.6% replied, yes. For local authorities, this will mean that I will have to pay the people's severance payments. [[12.30 hours]] Now the quote from the vice-chairman of the trade union Alena Gaňová Gaňová: "It has been confirmed to us, which we knew throughout the preparation of the new construction law, that therefore the people of the municipalities do not want much. At the same time, it also means that the Ministry of Regional Development has no idea how it would ensure this agenda at the new office. If so few people really crossed, it would be a big problem especially for the builders." And another quote from the Executive Director of the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic Jana Přecechtělová follows: "In the past, we have already conducted a similar questionnaire investigation, which basically showed the same thing. Again, it has been confirmed that fewer than half of the workers are likely to go into the central system, which also follows the unfortunate historical experience of seclusion of social workers from the municipalities and the subsequent lack of staffing of the labour offices, where the dosages are to go, but they did not go in full. This ultimately has the worst impact on the citizen." Then follows the last quote from the President of the Association of Local Authorities of the Czech Republic, Stanislav Polčák: "The idea of government MEPs adopting a legal version on which representatives of municipalities cannot comment is unacceptable for our national community association. The agreement that the construction authorities would remain in the municipalities was covered by the Prime Minister himself. And all of a sudden, members of the ANO movement are redesigning their ministry's proposal under the cover of non-discriminatory amendments. The fact that municipalities should pay severance payments on the basis of a new standard to employees of canceled offices is unthinkable for us, because Mr Kolovratník did not deal with municipal associations at all. The abolition of small construction offices represents huge costs and personnel losses, which no one has calculated. Such a legislative process must not take place, especially in an emergency situation. Moreover, the effects of the changes are really enormous and, on the contrary, insufficient staffing not only does not result in the desired acceleration of the building procedure, which everyone is inclined to, but rather to, its collapse, for which Members will be responsible in particular." So I would like to ask the Minister here how he wants to deal with this huge risk, or I would say practically sure that it will be very difficult to secure the staffing, and therefore there is actually a risk that paradoxically, compared to the whole intended purpose of this amendment, the whole agenda will be slowed down, because there will simply not be enough people to handle it. So I'd like to hear some answers from you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u59	Thank you. It is Mr Tomáš Martínek's turn, who, according to my remarks, is performing for the second time. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u60	I'm just gonna fill in what I missed in the first part. I would therefore like to complete the challenge of the reconstruction of the state, which still sends the last comments on Amendment 8018 to the press 1008, as amended by the press 1008/7, in more detail. Practical problems of the original bill, press 1008, as amended by the KPN of the Economic Committee for Press 1008/7, which solves the proposal No. 8018 members of Martin Kupka and Ivan Bartoš. The proposal, like the existing construction law, does not regulate the details of the conduct of an electronic building journal and a simple record of the construction, the requirements of which are to be laid down under the law, which in practice raises legal uncertainty. The solution proposed in Amendment 8018 by Mr Martin Kupka consists of anchoring, first, the basic conditions for keeping the building log and a simple electronic record of the construction, the procedure for drawing up the record by persons without access to the contractor's system. Ad 1. The obligation to protect alerts in electronic form against changes is proposed and kept systematically and gradually. Ad 2. It is proposed that, when keeping a building log or a simple record of the construction in electronic form, the person authorised to carry out records pursuant to § 166 (1) (a) may be authorised to carry out records in electronic form. 2 to draw up an alert as a separate document if it is signed by a recognised electronic signature and transmitted to the contractor, who shall enter it in the building log or simple record of the construction without undue delay. Jakub Černý, Ervín Hausvater and Josef Karlický worked for reconstruction of the state. Finally, I would like to present a call for a draft building law from academics: honourable Members, we are addressing you with this call on the proposal for a new construction law, which the Government submitted to the Chamber of Deputies in September 2020. The proposal for a new construction law was born in an environment of serious conflict of public interest with private interests. Its basis was a legislative elaborate prepared by the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic, HK CR, an interest business association, which brings together among other things the largest construction and development corporations in the Czech Republic. This elaborate printed a draft new law concept, which basically undermines the sophisticated system of environmental protection, as it was created in the Czech Republic after 1989. The new concept assumes that the environmental authorities concerned will withdraw a significant part of their scope of construction and transfer to the construction offices. It will be the construction offices to decide next on the withdrawal of agricultural land from the agricultural soil fund, the withdrawal of forest land from the forest soil fund, the cutting of trees, the authorisation of exemptions from the prohibitions on protected plant and animal species, or even an environmental impact assessment. All these areas are to be excluded from the management and review of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture and to be brought into the management and review of the Supreme Building Office. In the field of the environment, there will be a schizophrenic organizational model in which one and the same agricultural or forestry land will protect against ill-considered mining of mineral resources or insensitive interference against pests by specialised environmental authorities headed by the Ministry of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture, while the construction authorities led by the highest building office will "protect" them from unconsidered construction. The original legislative elaborate from the workshop of the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic was modified by the Ministry of Regional Development during 2020, but the concept described above remained intact. Some of these modifications have brought partial improvements, but others have made the original model even more complicated. The most doubts are raised by the hybrid system of construction offices. In the first instance, the construction authorities of municipalities are to decide in the authorisation procedures, while in the second and third stages they are to decide the construction authorities of the State. However, the construction authorities of the municipalities will not have a separate competence in the authorisation procedure to assess environmental issues and in these matters they are to be relied on to express the opinion of the Regional Building Authority's superior. Moreover, the government's proposal, despite all the adjustments and improvements made by the MMR, remains generally considered insufficient by political representation. Therefore, two different comprehensive amendments are now being prepared simultaneously and independently of each other. One is preparing a group of Members under the leadership of Martin Kupka, the other is preparing MMR itself. And all this at the time of the climax of the Coronavirus, the emergency situation and only nine months before the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. For all these reasons, we believe that the state of the construction of the new building law described above is an image of total legislative waste, which has only one reasonable solution: to return the proposal to the Government, with the possibility of being an analytical basis for the drafting of a new and better proposal after the elections to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic in 2021. Thank you for considering. In respect of representatives - random - Faculty of Science UP Olomouc, Institute of State and Law of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Faculty of Science, Faculty of Science MU Brno, Faculty of Environment of the Czech Republic Prague, Biology Centre of the Czech Republic České Budějovice, Centre for Environmental Affairs of the Czech Republic Prague, Faculty of Law UP Olomouc etc. So thank you for your attention and I am sure glad that these important public challenges could be heard here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u61	Thank you. It is now Mr Ondřej Profant's turn to speak in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u62	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, I won't read you any letters. I'm going to pause in detail over the digitization. So whoever wants to support the digitalisation, let him listen carefully and eventually disprove my arguments at the end. I would like to suspend myself over the procedure, where therefore proposal D1, original House document 7861 of my colleague Sadovský is tabled, and then only and exclusively my proposals N9 and N22. These proposals are similar, they have the same basis, but in reality they differ greatly in how they will be applied. As I said before, one is such a shuffling not to say where to say: that's how we're going to do it electronically, and the other clearly defines the current practice used in planning our cities. First of all, let's talk about what these two proposals have in common. There are three basic points. Data are produced in electronic form in machine-readable format. In addition to vector data, both amendments are newly admitted to raster data, which is particularly important for underlying maps such as aerial orthophotomaps. The primary data of course remain stored in vector form, i.e. in the form of points, lines, surfaces. It is easier to machine processing, but also the form of raster is allowed for the underlying data. That means we can do it in vectors, but at the same time we can do the orthophotomap, so that we can really project it into the landscape or into the current elements in the landscape. Another point of contact is that both amendments propose that territorial measures should also be drawn up in a uniform standard as a binding spatial planning instrument with a significant territorial average. So, it's great, we're gonna run it, and we're gonna have the adjustments, which is obviously absolutely crucial. The third common point is the introduction of requirements for geodetic reference, i.e. coordinate, system, which is in the vast majority of Czech map works system S-JTSK, which is Křovákův's depiction, which was created in the first Republic for the model of Czechoslovakia. It is very accurate for the territory and today's Czech Republic. So, of course, these three things are great. But now I will tell you about what is not in this amendment D1 and what is very unlikely to pass in the current draft procedure. Because once we approve it, because of course it will move in a better direction, the second proposal will be unvoting. In addition, in the amendment of the original House document 8043 in the procedure marked with N9 to N22, the entire drawing part and the structure of the text section of the planning documentation are standardised, not only selected phenomena, which is a condition for digitization and machine support of follow-up processes of public administration information systems. With standardized data structure and material content, not graphic expression of standardised parts. Here we're talking again about whether we're spanking painters on a map or we have vector-recorded real elements that we want to plan and solve there. Another is a better concept of the structure of standardised parts of the content of territorial planning documentation, in particular areas with different uses. The proposed system will enable municipalities for which it is advantageous to maintain the existing area breakdown to use this in a different way (?), but do not prevent those municipalities who need to choose their own breakdown better suited to local needs from using their own breakdowns. This means that it respects the constitutional law of the municipalities. When a community needs to have it differently, typically a large community needs to have it differently than a small one, it can take it in a standardised form and in a standardised code list. That's very important. Next point. The proposed data standard will allow for the creation of uniform surveillance analytical outputs across territorial plans thanks to the mandatory informative uniform classification of so-called common codes. The entire amendment N9 to N22 is in the spirit of the best principles of digitisation of public administration. It's the same principle that we know from other processes and agendas. We often perform so-called fake digitization by simply converting paper into PDF scans without considering the process and structure of the data. This does not make the administration more effective, sometimes we even complicate it for the authorities. Likewise, when recording phenomena in the territory, we must not just remain with scanned maps, or so-called graphical representation of standardised parts. In order to really digitize and streamline processes, comparability and interoperability, it is necessary to move towards a uniform data structure of the territorial planning documentation. Its graphic representation will then be only secondary visualization of uniformly stored machine-readable data, not primary product. So the result of this is that if we have it in the right data formats, for example, those information system orders won't be so expensive, while the design that's being designed here in the procedure is going to make it more expensive because it won't be so much standardised. And that means we're going to be counting on more non-standardized elements and colorfuls in the map. We're just going to store some data in a raster way. The aim of my amendment is to establish a uniform data standard for digital processing of monitored phenomena in territorial planning documentation, so-called objects of their classes structured according to the observed characteristics, not a uniform graphic standard of falsely digitized territorial planning documentation according to the prescribed legend. I'll read you what's important what's going on. It introduces areas according to use. So housing, recreation, civic amenities, public spaces, greenery, transport infrastructure, technical infrastructure, production and storage, mining and so on. That's the present one. But the new one will allow us to distinguish what we can't today. For example, distinguish Prague's Vinohrady from Prague's South Town. Here we have the socialist traditional housing estate, where a huge field came and stopped the panels. And in that zoning plan, it's like one color today. That means there can be buildings everywhere, and that means you can further thicken the housing estate. In the middle of that estate, you can build houses and so on. And it happens sometimes. For example, there was a big dispute at the Ládví estate. While Vinohrady, for example, is a very compact neighborhood of buildings, which is now almost unimaginable, because it is unplanable. It's because you don't do things there. Although it is quite clear that that is the way citizens live, it is the right thing to do, and we would probably like to plan it. Because why wouldn't we be able to build another Vinohrady? [[12.50 hours]] And this is exactly the difference, for example. The Prague Institute of Planning and Development must address it, solve it within the framework of the Metropolitan Plan, as planned. And this amendment N9 to N22 makes this exactly an anchor, so that it's in that modern vision of the plan that really solves the individualities, that this is the panel building that the parks are planned into, and that's where the parks are going to stay, because we don't want to build another house in front of the people in front of the building. And this is exactly what this amendment is dealing with. So I'm asking you to support this change in the procedure I propose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u63	Yes, thank you. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Pikal came forward with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am not sure if I will use the ten minutes that are for ordinary Members, but if that happens, I apologize to everyone. I would like to stop at the fact, in general, that I find it very sad that we have to do this here today, because we have a proposal before us, which came in a rather special way and eventually came in some pre-arranged form, but there has been a comprehensive amendment that has not been passed through any extensive commentary procedure, and that is why a large number of amendments have been made, many controversy and a long debate has been raised. And I actually find the whole thing very uncomfortable. So I would like to propose a repeat of the second reading procedure, so that we can then work on some conceptual proposal that requires a consensus that we would eventually get to. So that's my procedural proposal then for the time of the vote when it's time. Now to the second part. I'd like to introduce the House to the opinion delivered to our club. This is the opinion of the Association for Urbanism and Urban Planning of the Czech Republic, when this association approached us on the present proposal for a new construction law in the Chamber of Deputies: As part of the second reading of this proposal on 1 April 2021, Mr Kolovratník applied the amendment under Article 1 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 8008, which converts the procurement of land planning documentation fully into the competence of municipalities and regions. Although this change may seem positive for the municipalities, the association dares to appeal to us not to support this rash and unverified change in the third reading. At the outset, it notes that it does not question the possibility of the acquisition of territorial planning documentation being fully carried out within its own remit, but considers that this can only be done following a consistent examination of all circumstances and a broad expert discussion of this issue. Neither, unfortunately, occurred in the present case. This brings us to a lot of problematic proposals, which are simply there, when major conceptual changes are proposed and are not properly discussed with individual actors. At the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, there were often very serious criticisms in the third reading as well as in the various committees against the new law. The first was that the proposal was prepared by an interest group, the Chamber of Commerce, and as such it cannot be considered as a quality proposal. I would also like to point out that the proposed amendment was prepared only in a very narrow group of five largest cities without any wider discussion, without the involvement of the professional components of the competent ministry, despite the repeated promise of the Minister for Regional Development that this change will not be dealt with rashly, without a broad expert discussion with all stakeholders, not just an interest group of the five largest cities in the Czech Republic. Another complaint is that the proposal for a new construction law was prepared without consistent analyses that could identify the painful places of current legislation. Unfortunately, the same is happening in this case, the proposal is prepared without a consistent impact on the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, on international law, including the law of the European Union. It is completely absent from the assessment of the effects of regulation, i.e. RIA, and this impact will certainly not be negligible especially for small municipalities. The last point is that the proposal for a new construction law is being developed by the current mixed model of public administration. I would like to point out that the acquisition of land-based planning documentation is also currently part of this exercise and its transfer from self-government is also an erosion of a mixed model of public administration performance, which is loudly criticized by most Members. At the meeting of the House of Commons on 1 April 2021, the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek quite loudly and forcefully opposed such a rash and unthinkable change. I would note that not only does the Ministry of Culture have a negative attitude towards such a procedure. In the same way, there are other ministries, in particular the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Interior or the Ministry of Justice. The Supreme Administrative Court warns against such an ill-advised change and the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic has not made a clear statement. Based on many years of experience in the field of spatial planning not only my own but also members of the association, I would like to say that by adopting this amendment, the strengthening of self-government will not be achieved. This regulation will bring rather chaos and legal uncertainty in the territory. It will mean a significant extension of the authorisation processes because their basic building block, i.e. the territorial planning activity, will be paralyzed by this change. There is a large and long-standing dispute, unfortunately also the obstruction of certain municipalities, which will mean a weakening of the interest of the state in the process of the procurement of land planning documentation, namely delays in the most important constructions, motorways, high-speed lines, products and water works. The proposal thus prepared goes against the principle of recodification of public building law, as presented in the House. The proposal also places a small municipality in a disadvantageous position, which does not have to be financially and staffed on the zoning plan, a basic development document. It does not contain any safety net for these municipalities and condemns them not to be able to develop properly, but also that they will not be able to draw subsidies either from the budget of the European Union, the State or the region, because the drawing-up of subsidies, in particular projects, is, in the vast majority of cases, conditional on the existence and compliance of the project. [[unintelligible]] Following the reaction of the smaller municipalities in particular, it can also be noted that this change has not been discussed with the municipalities in any way and their view on this matter has not been taken into account in any way, which must be seen with great wonder. After all, we have heard a large number of opinions from various associations of municipalities here. The Minister for Regional Development promises to prepare a grant title for small municipalities, but this is just another administrative burden for them, which, in particular, mayors of smaller municipalities will no longer be able to manage in time. The subsidy is also always minor and it should be pointed out that although the Ministry of Regional Development has a subsidy programme to support the procurement of territorial plans, despite repeated promises that it will do so for this year, it has not announced a call for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u65	Vice-President, you're right. Please allow us to create a peaceful environment for the completion of the speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u66	I understand that the discussion that's going on here before me is definitely important, and I support the implementation, just... [[The group is melting.]] Thank you, everyone. [[The President also thanks you.]] For these reasons, I ask you to consider not to support Amendment No 8008. If there is to be such a fundamental change, I would like to call it one of the biggest changes in the field of public administration organisation over the past 25 years. And then I believe that this should be done on the basis of a broad expert discussion, which will be conducted by a factually competent resort, not by a legal office hired by a group of large cities. The discussion to which all stakeholders will be involved and the functionality of the new system will be evaluated from all relevant views and practically tested on examples. - So many president of the Association for Urbanism and Urban Planning of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention and I would like to mention one more thing... I'm sorry. Or maybe I'll give you a word here... [[- Yes, please.]] If there's an application for a debate...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u67	It is, but finish it, Mr. Vice-President. There's also a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u68	In that case, I will interrupt my speech and, if necessary, I will sign up if the debate continues, because this is another unrelated matter where I wanted to discuss individual amendments, but I think that we are now at a more general stage of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u69	Thank you. Meanwhile, Mrs Richterová has signed up for the debate, but Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík is registered with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a procedural proposal to interrupt this point by 26 May, which is Wednesday of the week of plenary, which is a good time to discuss third readings. I believe that we will be able to negotiate this law this week in plenary. However, we really consider it essential that the positions of organisations that have not been able to intervene in the creation of this law, because they have been hugged, are heard in this plenary, but we are prepared to have some consensus on this, so that the next plenary week can actually vote on this proposal. Thank you for supporting this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u71	Thank you. President of the Chamber of Deputies with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u72	I thank you for the floor, and there's basically no need for priority rights. I will also take advantage of the fact that my colleague Ferjenčík has made a procedural proposal, so I would put a counterclaim on him. I suggest that this point be interrupted at 14.00, with the fact that it will continue on 14 May on Friday at 9.00, that this meeting and this point continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u73	He would continue on May 14th at 9.00 on Friday. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Yes. [[Gong.]] I have summoned Members and Members who are in the foyer. We have a proposal and a counterproposal. We will first vote on the counterproposal. The protinávrh is that the meeting will be adjourned at 2:00, which would be one way or another, but please, and we will continue it on Friday, May 14, at 9:00 in the morning. Checkout request. I checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. I think we are ready for the vote, so we will vote on interrupting this meeting at 2:00 p.m., and we will continue it on Friday the 14th at 9:00 a.m. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number five. 126 Members registered, for 82, against 35. The motion was accepted. So, until 2:00 p.m., we'll continue the negotiations, then, if we don't negotiate, we'll stop. Friday at 9:00 in the morning, we will continue this meeting. It is Mr Černohorský with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. At this point, I'd like to ask for a recess for a meeting of the MP's club by 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u75	Yes. There was a motion for a break for a meeting of the Pirates' Congressional Club by 2:00 p.m. I will, of course, comply with this proposal. President Vojtěch Filip still wants to perform. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u76	Thank you. Well, I just made one little point. Your obstruction is really embarrassing!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u77	Thank you. So I'm interrupting, as a result of the break, I'm interrupting this point. In accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will continue it on Friday, this Friday, at 9.00 in the morning. At the same time, I remind you that at 15.00, our negotiations will continue at the 103rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-12-ps2017-102-01-001-999.u78	Madam, honourable Members, it is 14.00, and I will just point out that the time has passed for the break taken by the Pirate Party. The point has been interrupted, the meeting has not been interrupted, we must now fix this. Given that the agreement had been reached between all the Members' Clubs, it was agreed that this 102rd meeting would be suspended until the agreement of the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs has been decided again. It follows, therefore, that if the meeting was adjourned indefinitely, it is not possible for us to continue at 9 p.m. on Friday with the suspended item, so the Chamber of Deputies will not be sitting on Friday, to be explained. Once again, it is on the basis of an agreement made by representatives of all member clubs. That's all for now. I'm interrupting the 102st meeting, and we're going to continue at 3:00 p.m. with the 103rd meeting. Thank you.
