ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u1	3. Jana Pastuchová, Jan Bauer, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Vít Kaňkovský, Lucie Šafránková, Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Lenka Dražilová for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws / House printing 1143/ - first reading We have the Government's position at our disposal as House Press 1143/1. I would like Mrs Lenka Dražilová to present the proposal for the appellants. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. As we have heard, it is once again a joint proposal by representatives of six parliamentary clubs, the House Press 1143, and the Government has also given a favourable opinion on this proposal. The current legislation on the conditions for the provision of social services, types of social services and their registration no longer meets the needs of good practice and the needs of entities in the provision of social services. The regulation of social services leads to an excessive administrative burden. The proposed proposal reflects the need for practice, which calls for changes to existing legislation leading in particular to greater efficiency in the process of providing social services. The proposal is based, as the Minister has already said, on the draft amendment to the Social Services Act submitted by the Government of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs last December. Unlike the ministerial proposal, however, it contains only those points which were not the subject of contradictions within the framework of the extensive consultation process, both at the level of ministries and at the level of municipalities. [[17.20 hours]] The proposed legislation aims to clarify and simplify the social services system, reduce the administrative burden, which will result in a significant efficiency and also to increase the clarity and transparency of the social services system. Last but not least, the aim is also to protect vulnerable clients. As I have already said, the content of the parliamentary proposal consists of the selected points of the Government amendment to the Social Services Act, on which no outstanding contradictions were raised from official comment points, were non-conflict and general consent was given to them. I would just point out that there were ten discussion meetings at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, external, internal commentary proceedings and countless meetings with individual regions, associations and associations. These include, for example, the introduction of distance approaches during the pandemic period into the process of providing social services, the addition of basic activities to new activities in the care and assistance service, the merger of care services and personal assistance in the care and assistance services, the merger of residential services, homes into one type - the home of social care - the reduction of administration to providers in the process of registration of social services, the introduction of a valorisation mechanism for maximum levels of remuneration laid down by decrees, the adjustment of integrity of social services and legal persons, the strengthening of user protection by adjusting provisions for measures restricting the movement of persons, the introduction of more flexible arrangements for further education in social services and the establishment of professional competence of quality inspectors in social services. I would like to stop at the fact that the amendment proposal introduces a valuation mechanism to increase the maximum payments provided for in the provision of social services with effect from January 2022. I would like to stress that this is an increase in maximum remuneration, which means the limits to which the payment amount can be agreed with the user. It is certainly not a general increase in social services prices, as it is put in our mouths, and we receive a lot of e-mails in this spirit. In a number of cases, especially in field services, providers will not fully benefit from the possibility of an increase. After all, this was not the case in the past when maximum remunerations increased regularly by 2014. The Institute of maximum remuneration is not a binding setting of the level of remuneration in social services, but it is a regulatory mechanism setting the upper limit to which the remuneration can be negotiated. The final payment under the Social Services Act shall be agreed between the provider and the user individually in the contract and should also take account of the financial possibilities of the user when negotiating. Finally, I would like to stress that 95 percent of social service providers agreed with the proposed amendment, as well as the Association of Social Services Providers, Charities, Diaconia, Salvation Army, Union of Towns and Municipalities, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and individual regions. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to emphasise that the content of the parliamentary proposal consists of the selected points of the Government amendment to the Social Services Act, on which no outstanding contradictions have been raised from official comment points, were inconclusive and have been given general consent. I therefore ask you to support this House press so that we can continue to discuss all aspects of the various points of the proposal at different levels. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u3	I thank Mrs Dražilová, who has presented this proposal to us for the appellants, and I now ask that the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr David Kasal, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I would add in my news report that the petitioner described to us in detail how this amendment to the Social Services Act was created, which is very important and where the selected parts are, on which there is general agreement. That's the first part. Another part is that this agreement is also with providers as well as with units such as regions and ORPs. For this reason, I recommend to the House that this press be forwarded to the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Mrs Olga Richterová is the first to be included in the general debate, and Mr Beitl will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor. Like many of you, in recent days, both service providers and people who need to benefit from a care allowance, personal assistance, have been in contact with me. That's the first thing that's definitely not conflicting, as the petitioners say. It is proposed here in Section 76a to increase maximum limits for payments, which is very understandable for long non-valorized contributions to diets, contributions to so-called. accommodation or bedding, or variously called, but it is very problematic in the payment of personal assistance. And now we come to the connection with the previous point, because people who are fully dependent on assistance in all everyday operations are often people who are also trying to maintain at least some autonomy through actually planning this personal assistance. And what's being proposed here is that it will be regularly valorized - that it will increase the maximum limits and then regularly valorize. And I agree with the valorisations, and I agree that inflation is simply, it is a sign of our reality, we have to count on it, but that is why I asked in the previous point how we are going to deal with the fact that it would just make sense in particular for people completely dependent on supporting others to function independently and to allow them to evaluate the contribution to care. And now - I am aware that many of you have experience with different, even bad quality care at home etc., I can imagine many, I have also seen many, but I know hundreds of people represented by organizations who try to live a separate life, even though they are in a wheelchair. I used to go through one such organization as a volunteer to help out and to camp all week long, to teenage wheelchairs. These are people who, for example, were here today before the House and pointed out that they are not able to bribe the personal assistance from the care allowance today, and they are already able to pay about 4 to 5 hours a day. And the key thing in this proposal is that we can't pick up, regularly valorize the payments, the costs, what people have to pay, and yet not allow them to deal financially with it in the area of personal assistance. Again, it's a really different area than paying for lunch, for example, in senior homes. [[17.30 hours]] So, of course, there I was trying to find out what could be done logically, because in these adjustments today, of course, it is stated that providers do not have to use the maximum, the ceilings of those prices and values. That's for sure. So it's clear to me that the increase in the payment order doesn't mean that there will be an increase in the price for all services. It's not like that. Sure. But the services for which there will be an increase affect not only the providers, but also the regions according to the subsidy. And maybe there's a way to negotiate with the county that they're going to have to do with the personal assistance of those people who are in that category of care allowance level four and are trying to lead a separate life, and that's why they're negotiating personal assistance, more subsidizing those who just objectively need, because they really don't perform any of the operations themselves, they're such disabilities, more subsidizing the provider so that he can spend more hours there. So maybe there was one way to negotiate so that there weren't two options left, and today it's either caring for a loving, sacrificing family, but it's also not exactly right, or an institution. And we're really talking about those cases that aren't that many. When I was counting, it worked out that we're talking about, like, 5,000 people. That's 5,000 lives we should be thinking about, but at the same time it's not unsolvable. So that's the first question for these, I say, roughly estimated by 5,000 people. And the second thing about these guarantees, I think another guarantee, in order not to actually reduce the availability of those services to people who need a large amount of personal assistance, so that you could deal with associations of providers. And that's actually where the topic for me should be the most intense negotiation so there's a clear solution for these, I don't know, probably a few thousand people involved. Another thing that is not entirely unconflict in addition to this increase in maximum payment limits is the introduction of distance approaches. And I think that this is an essential way that the provision of distance services and social services is okay. I just think that there is a need to be focused on explaining how it will be ensured that quality will not be reduced. That's all. That's where I think it's all about communication. But more complex of the proposals that you included in the amendment, I think it's a merger of the residential services of those homes into one kind, that everything would actually be called a social welfare home. It would be easier administratively, but at the same time it could go quite fundamentally against the interests of people with disabilities. And I just want to quote three sentences very briefly actually from the preamble to the Strategy for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states: "Persons with disabilities have the right to good conditions in the workplace, the right to lead an independent life, the right to equal opportunities, the right to fully participate in the life of their community. Everyone has the right to a life without obstacles. And our duty as a community is to ensure their full involvement in society on an equal basis with others." And I think that's a little contrary to the fact that it would be very easy, on the basis of the merger of those services into a single social care home, to be a whole life without considering whether something else would be appropriate for that person - in that one single service. And I'm saying this here as one of those objections that came from different kinds of experts, and I'm happy to have it explained again what led you to this, that it's indisputable. But I don't have the feedback that it would be indistinguishable in the field of expertise. Well, that's two big things, and I'll sort of explain it. This merges homes with a special regime today focused especially on people with advanced Alzheimerův's disease and possibly with some other similar diseases and homes for people with disabilities means that people can get together with very different manifestations of the disease or disability. I just want to point out that I don't know if it's really just the motive for reducing the administration and simplifying it to operators in bureaucracy. I understand that this would reduce claims during the registration period. I also realize that sometimes it can be on the edge of where that person would belong. But are you really sure that the merger of homes with special regimes and homes for disabled people is the way in the right direction? And one final point. In the same way, it is actually proposed to merge care and assistance services, which, in turn, means that a compromise will somehow be made for the conditions and procedures applicable to the assistance service and for the care service, and it threatens me, but also according to a number of people who have been professionally engaged in it for a long time, that the compromise will simply not be good for either of them. Thus, there will be a significant increase in costs or a reduction in the scope and quality of services. Just care services and assistance services seem similar, but it is not the same. Assistance services are much more distinguished by the way the client actually requires it, in the sense that if you're - I'll give you a specific example, let us all imagine - in a wheelchair, for example, from birth, there are such diagnoses, so you're just telling yourself very precisely what you want, what you need when you have the skills to do it. And it's quite different when you have it that way than when you're old enough to get to the need for that nursing service, and on the other hand, you need to be a little bit guided to what that nursing service can offer you. I have tried to show on these two examples that I am simply not sure that the merger of the assistance and care services is as conflicting as you say that the strategy for the rights of people with disabilities implies the right and support of independent life. And again, the way it's designed, I don't think it's gonna support the possibility of an independent life. And then, finally, what is really fully existentially threatening for some - how do you want to deal with those people who are having a hard time getting along with the help care allowance today, with the fact that they actually get paid, but didn't they get the benefit? Thank you for answering.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u7	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková will now respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u8	Thank you. I have only deliberately taken a factual point, because I cannot fully answer a number of questions that my previous speaker, Mrs Richterová, here, by your means, Mr President. However, we also discussed this issue at the meeting of our Government Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which has been going on recently. And of course it is a very difficult issue and that it can not be easy for the providers themselves to distinguish precisely those types of services and not only their quality but also their focus. But here I am based on what the plaintiff has already said. Firstly, not only does anyone want to deny those disabled persons in any way the rights you spoke so convincingly about. I can only confirm from my own experience of caring for my mother, who unfortunately also ended up in such a facility, even at a very old age, but also because I think or believe that we must listen mainly to those who have long experience in this practice and who, as the legislators say, turn to us with a request to support this press. [[17.40 hours]] I myself was very conflicted, and I also said so today at our congress club. However, I think that, despite all this, that it can happen and may even seem that at first glance it seems that there could be some reduction in the rights of these people, so on the other hand and in terms of those who are responsible for the rights of people with disabilities and their application in practice, this is not the case. So, as Members, I have come to the conclusion - the last sentence - that in my own way I humbly listen to the voice of those who should be competent in caring for our disabled people. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you. Perhaps that made it clear what I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u9	Thank you. Mr Petr Beitl in the general debate, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, presented today's parliamentary amendment aims at optimising, stabilizing, clarifying and simplifying the social services system and reducing administration, which is intended to lead to significant efficiency, as well as increasing entry and procedural quality, clarity and transparency. In fact, the proposal is based on an amendment to the Act on State Services prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in which, however, amendments are removed, which were the subject of contradictions. Only that part of the changes from the government version, which the petitioners consider to be rather precise and legislatively technical, is included. The proposed regulation thus focuses in particular on enabling the distance form of provision of social services, merging some existing facilities into new facilities - social care homes - the unification of existing care services and personal assistance under the care service, supplementing some new basic services or refinement and unification of existing services. Furthermore, the modification of the data provided by the registrant and the introduction of new competences of the Ministry for the Management of the Register of Social Services Providers, which will continue to be conducted in electronic form only. Furthermore, extending the range of professional staff to social services inspectors, specifying the fulfilment of the obligation of further training of social workers, increasing the maximum remuneration within the framework of the payment decree, introducing a mechanism to increase maximum remuneration for the provision of social services, proposed annual reimbursement of payments for meals, accommodation and care in social services, which is also in line with the requirements of practice and will help ensure quality service and diet for clients of social services. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] It has already been said that counter-arguments are also emerging, which say that the amendment is automatically increasing prices for social services. I believe that's not true and that's not true. This is an increase in the maximum remuneration, i.e. the limits to which the payment amount can be negotiated with the user. The Institute of maximum remuneration is not binding on the level of remuneration, but is merely a regulatory mechanism setting the upper limit. I believe that in a number of cases, especially in field services, providers will not fully benefit from the possibility of an increase. The final payment under the Social Services Act shall be agreed by the provider with the user in the contract, taking into account the financial possibilities of the user and in accordance with another safeguard mechanism. For example, according to the law, after payment for accommodation and catering services, the user must remain at least 15 per cent of his income. It should be added that the maximum remuneration in social services has not been revised since 2014 and has been increased regularly until then. This means that the providers are theoretically moving at the price levels of 2014, which, for example, is unbearable in the case of wage costs. I personally warned the Minister several times and called for an increase in the remuneration. As I said before, there has been a substantial increase in old-age and disability pensions as well as in the care allowance since 2014, but, on the other hand, the cost of provision has increased. In the long term, the neglect of valorisation of maximum remuneration limits has caused a number of problems, for example, in the diet of seniors and people with disabilities. In field outpatients, this restriction leads to a proven reduction in the quality and diversity of the diet, which is, of course, very bad. In the area of the hourly rate for the care provided, the increase in the payment ceiling may enable the provider to compensate for the lack of public funding for the provision of field services and, in particular, care services in less populated areas, where, for example, the logistics of the provision of the social service may be more expensive and therefore not more affordable. Everything has its value, and the provision of social services. The care allowance is for the needy to buy social services. Of course, on the other hand, the service provider is a provider that no one forces to make their services more expensive, on the contrary, it should create favourable conditions for its clients. Social service providers are in daily contact with people with disabilities, seniors and their other clients and are in support of clients in these and other difficult days and often the only close ones with whom seniors and other users are meeting at the time of the pandemic. No one can suspect that they want to stop supporting, protecting and providing care for clients. Even at this point, we must thank them, pay their respects, and create conditions that are as helpful to their work as possible. I believe that the proposed changes will lead to greater availability of social services, increase their quality and better functioning of social services. So that was the comment on the increase and now back to the bill. The proposal we are discussing today is intended, according to the petitioners, to focus primarily on systemic changes in the field of social services, particularly as regards the quality of their provision, the adjustment of obtaining authorisation to provide them, their species and basic activities. However, the proposal itself only partially fulfils the stated objective, as the changes contained in it do not address the issue of social services collectively and in sufficient scope for them to result in more significant changes in the functioning of the social services system. The definition of social services and their species remains almost untouched. For example, the category of social services provided to end-users and their loved ones is not included, the possibility of community provision of social services as well as the definition of some other existing services. The proposal then completely ignores the most pressing question about social services, which is the way they are financed, and does not deal with the issue of improving social services by setting clear standards of provision, adjusting social workers' obligations and laying down measures to protect clients. Thus, with the exception of a single provision governing the measure limiting the movement of persons in Section 89. Dear colleagues, I'm sure you remember how much time this House spent on funding social services. The proposal does not include the regulation of offences relating to measures restricting the movement of persons, so the rules are not enforceable. The new comprehensive regulation of social services should also include amendments to certain follow-up laws, such as Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on aid in material distress, as amended, which would ensure effective cooperation between the state authorities and the authorities of local authorities, which are also referred to in the separate name of the proposal, but are not part of it. [[17.50 hours]] The proposal is based on the Government's proposal for an amendment, but unlike it, it only amends those areas which have proved to be smooth in the context of the extensive ministerial consultation process for their own proposal. However, the legislative procedure, when the amendment proposal consists essentially of only selected amendments from another proposal, may be problematic because it involves a relatively large risk of error due to the absence of some changes that follow up. The petitioners did not completely avoid the errors made. An example can be given as unsolved proof of integrity in the case of social workers or social service inspectors. With regard to social workers, § 110 para. Article 1 (2) which is not affected by the amendment and which refers to another paragraph as regards the question of proving integrity. However, these provisions do not regulate the way in which integrity is demonstrated. A similar situation arises with social service inspectors, when the provisions of Section 115a refer to § 110, which refers to the untapped provisions of § 79 in the question of proving integrity. Furthermore, the proposal can be ruled out in several places where there is a discrepancy between the explanatory report and the text of the amendment, which appears also to have arisen in connection with the legislative procedure described above. For example, the justification for the amendment point number 5 is referred to as the addition of the target group of carers for the care and assistance services, but the reference of this service to carers and carers does not take place by the proposed text. There is also a clear discrepancy in the justification of the transitional provisions, which are to be eight according to the explanatory memorandum, in fact only six of them in the proposal. Contrary to what the explanatory memorandum indicates, the proposal lacks transitional provisions governing the procedure for inspection checks on the provision of social services which have not been completed on the date of entry into force of the proposed law, as well as transitional provisions to ensure that the minimum conditions of employment for existing social service providers are met. Both of these transitional provisions need to be added to the proposal. The validity of the registration of social service providers for which a marketing authorisation has been issued under the previous regulation is then addressed only by the transitional provision of Article 2 in point 4 of the proposal governing the cases of social service providers which are merged with another social service by the new regulation. However, the further validity of the registration of all other providers that have been registered under the previous regulation should also be adapted in general, as the conditions for registration are substantially changed by the new amendment. I could go on, there are other flaws and inaccuracies, but I'd rather move on to the final summary. At the beginning of the parliamentary term, the government promised us a conceptual amendment to the Social Services Act. Finally, what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had begat did not have the majority support, as the Minister admitted, and it did not even get into the legislative process in time. And we now have a mere torso of the original intention, containing things on which there was a plus minus consensus, and fortunately, this has been the result of a long-term demand for an increase in the maximum amount of payments. Unfortunately, and this is the worst, the government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have completely resigned from setting long-term and predictable funding, which is desperately demanded from both the level of regions and municipalities, cities and organizations themselves. This hot potato will thus continue to be tossed between these levels. In other words, the government has failed, has not fulfilled its promises, and is now trying to push something through the support of a part-member amendment. Although we realise that this is unconventional and sufficiently unnegotiable, we perceive positive points in the design and requirements of the terrain and allow this material to be discussed on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u11	Thank you. And now, in the debate, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, will be speaking, at the moment, the last one entered into the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be long, I think the previous speakers have said more or less everything. Behind the KSČM we identify with this novel, it is really so-called, when I can say it so harshly, deboning the government proposal, which dealt with, among other things, the financing that we really perceive in the field and from the comment points that the proposal was not successful. But again, this part, which was also discussed with the Association of Social Services Providers, which is presented today, is more or less responding not only to compromises, but to the requirements of the terrain. We are convinced, and as I have been through all the letters from the Association of Service Providers, or the Union of Cities and Municipalities and also the Association of Regions, so they identify and support this parliamentary proposal and actually ask that it be accepted. So for us, we ask that he be at first reading to pass. And, of course, the debate that is taking place in a particular area, which is probably most embarrassing, I think it should be moved with the participation of the very other partners in the Committee on Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to comment on the proposal for this amendment for the STAN Club. It is clear that the price increase for services is justified, justified, can be easily explained and is definitely important for social service providers. It is clear that many of them have increased costs, the costs, the inputs are rising, the wage costs are rising. From this point of view, there's really nothing to discuss. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] On the other hand, we have providers - and, as the representatives of the petitioners have mentioned, they agree with this amendment from almost all social service providers. On the other hand, we have a group on the other hand, and these are those who use these social services and who pay for these social services. And that's something that's kind of missing from the law. On the one hand, it is not possible for providers to have prices that do not correspond to those costs, but on the other hand, it is not possible for carers, or those who use these services, to receive contributions, and these services will not be sufficient for them after the increase. What has been said here is that it probably does not have to happen sometimes that these prices will not increase, so I think that this is not true, because remember, for example, when there was an increase in the care allowance, and that was in 2016, so immediately the social service providers raised these prices, and rightly again, because they knew that if there was an increase in the care allowance, there was some provision, in quotation marks, even from the carers. I think it is necessary to draw attention to those who are carers and receive a care allowance, or receive a care allowance themselves, stay at home, do not go to residence facilities, and this clearly shows that these people are saving the cost of the state. That is why I think that what is lacking in the law is an adjustment to how it will be done with this particular contribution to care, and it should also be validated in some way afterwards, virtually. increased to make it fair and fair. [[18.00 hours]] I have to say - and I would like to thank you very much, Magistrate Petr Rohovská, who cares for a 14-year-old daughter with a combined disability, from whom I received an email, and I think you have received it, colleagues and esteemed colleagues, too. I must say that it is good to read such an email because it is the words of a mother who is experiencing it all as a person caring for herself. And she, for example, states in her e-mail that she will not be able to afford to pay an increase in personal assistance, because the hourly rate will be beyond my financial capacity. It states that it is nice that, as the petitioners seem to say, savings from the reduction of subsidies can be used - and it quotes here - "for the development of field and outpatient services, whose capacities are insufficient in the Czech Republic. But when I'm a caring person" - I'm talking about a lady who writes an e-mail - "as a caring person I won't be able to afford them because of the price of services, it's definitely not gonna be supportive for me." And so I could continue to see how we treat those who are persons who care for a child with disabilities, without any claim for remuneration. So I would like to say that it would be good for the proposal to go to second reading, with amendments being prepared to amend this by increasing the contribution to care accordingly. Furthermore, I must say that we cannot agree that the care service will be merged with others because the care service and personal assistance should not be distributed (?). These are significantly different services. To put it simply, the care service is more focused on help and is not so required by the co-activity of the client or client. In the case of personal assistance, support is directed towards the client in such a way that he himself has as much involvement as possible in his own abilities and possibilities to make the best use of his degree of autonomy. The caregiver certainly cannot replace the personal assistant service fully without additional practice. Both positions work with clients quite differently. The same applies to the merger of social services - homes for seniors, homes with special regime and homes for people with disabilities - into one type of social service. So I guess I could just keep going. In any event, STAN will support the release for second reading, believing firmly that we will agree on amendments so that such an amendment is useful for both providers and social service recipients. And once again, thank you so much to Master Petra Rohovská for her explanatory e-mail. And to your colleagues, if you find time, I suggest you read it if you have received this e-mail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u15	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Profant has yet to take part in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u16	Thank you. Good evening. I would like to emphasise one question here, which my colleague Olga Richterová has already asked here and on which there has not been an answer from the petitioners. This is Section 76a, where there is talk of valorisation. And I want to ask you what you're gonna pay for this overdue, so an increased amount of personal assistance when the care allowance isn't rated. That means these two things are very closely related and one is valorizing and the other isn't. I don't think this is appropriate, it's an example of those preconceived measures that everyone here will ignore until the moment a few reports about it are made and broadcast in prime time. And at that point, it's going to be actively dealt with here, and everyone's going to make up their minds about who's gonna bring it up first. And yet it's a thing that we can treat here at the beginning. So I'd like to ask the petitioners if I'm missing something, if it's handled differently. And, if necessary, if they support any amendment leading in that direction, both of these amounts should be revised. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? No one is to be heard in the general debate, and I am done with the general debate. Interest in the final words, my Member, Dražilová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u18	Thank you for the floor, I've only been very brief. We've heard a lot of performances here, a lot of themes, a lot of positive things, and I think it's just that almost everyone who's been performing said they'll agree to move this proposal to second reading. And that's exactly what it is. There is no way anyone wants to hurt the disabled, no one wants to make the quality of social services worse, but on the contrary. So let us move this proposal where it really belongs to the Committee on Social Policy, possibly a subcommittee on social services and the disabled. Let's talk about what else we can do in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u19	Thank you. The rapporteur will also speak with the final word. Member David Kasal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to sum up that six Members have spoken, no motion for rejection has been made, and there have been no other adjustments to the time limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-003-003.u21	Thank you. This means that we will now consider the draft commandment to the committees. Once again, the Organising Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? Nobody's suggesting. So we will vote on the commandment of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 96 Members registered, for 89, against no one. We have ordered the proposal as a guarantee committee for the Social Policy Committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to another Committee. Is such a proposal from a diaper from one of the MPs? It's not. There have been no proposals to shorten the deadline, so thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the appellant, and I conclude on this point. Now we're going to go with point number
