ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-006-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 49 and 50 / House prints 201 and 211/ This is a proposal from Radka Maxová, František Kopřiva, Petr Dolínek, Vít Rakušan, Jiří Dolejš, Dominik Feri and others to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws, House press 201, first reading, and proposal of members of Marek Výborný, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek, Pavla Golasowská, Aleš Juchelka and others for the issue of constitutional law amending Resolution No. 2/1993 Coll. Bureau of the Czech National Council on the Declaration of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms as part of the Constitutional Order of the Czech Republic, as amended, House Press 211, first reading. We have repeatedly addressed these Houses of Press on 26 March 2019 at the 27th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged general debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken up by Mr František Kopřiva and Mr Marek Výborný. I remind you that the rapporteurs for the guarantee committees are Mr Marek Novák and Mrs Věra Procházková. Therefore, we will now continue the interrupted merged general debate. Mrs Melková is registered for the floor. The MP isn't here, so I'll see if I can... Mr. Dominik Feri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-006-999.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear members of the government, we have finally come to this again. I'm very happy about it, and I'll allow myself to repeat in a minute what I said the other day, and let's have a debate, let's do it eruditely, let's do it emotionally, but let's all be able to lead it. And that can only be led by committees, not by the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, where we can only argue with one another here. Please release this press and also the printing below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-006-999.u3	I'll see if Mrs Ivana Nevludová is still applying. We are in a merged general debate. Let me just point out that we have at 15 o'clock-- yes, it's general, it's merged, to both points. [[Question from the hall whether this is a merged debate.]] I'm just gonna point out that we have a fixed point at 3:00, so I'm gonna have to cut you off in three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-006-999.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally honor the value of marriage, which is for me a union of men and women, and I see the possible change of this institution to the relationship of two persons as a denial of the laws of nature and a destructive intervention into the foundation stone of society. Why is it a bad idea to change the definition of marriage? New laws never affect only those directly related to society. So do we still want to talk about mother and father, or parents number one and parents number two? By redefining marriage, a new standard is being formed. What is legally recognized as normal will be normal in kindergartens and schools and children's books and textbooks. The legal standard will also affect the language to be spoken about by family members. By redefining marriage, there is an opening to homosexual parenting. We don't know anything like universal parenting. It's paternity and motherhood, and it's two different and irreplaceable approaches to children. Kids need a relationship with their mom and dad, and they can't replace the best teacher or coach. We often hear that children thrive in the same sex unions as in the family with their father and mother. Most of the studies that came up with these claims but did not use a sufficiently large representative sample with a sufficient number of observed children. Development psychology is clear. Children raised by homosexuals are more burdened with developmental disability. But it's not just the kids. Foreign experience shows that everywhere homosexual marriage has been legalized, freedom of speech and freedom of conscience have fallen sharply and opinion censorship has increased. The simple claim that a heterosexual family is better for children than other types of cohabitation is already described as a hateful statement. Are you at risk of being fired from work or providing services (?). For example, Mr Richard Page, an official from Great Britain, has had this experience, who has taken the liberty of saying behind closed doors that the best family with a father and mother is always for a child from an institution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-10-ps2017-087-06-006-999.u5	I will have to interrupt you, Madame. We have 15 hours, so we have a fixed point, but if we discuss it, we'll go back in the next order. So now I'm going to take the fixed point. Mrs Barbora Kořanová made a point of fact, but again it is in order, because I have now interrupted. So we have a fixed point at 15 o'clock, and that's it.
