ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u1	1. Members of Stanislav Grospič, Hana Aulická Jírovcová, Daniel Pawlas and Pavel Kováčik's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended /house print 317/ - third reading We interrupted this on Friday 5. 3. at the 87th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I ask that Mr Stanislav Grospič, if he is present, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Petr Beitl, take his place at the rapporteur's table. I would remind you that both the motion to reject and the amendments are in the Parliaments of the press 317/6, which was delivered on 12 February 2021, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House press 317/7. I am now opening up a suspended debate. President Stanjura is claiming priority rights. However, the debate was interrupted during Mr Bauer's speech, but the President will exercise the right of priority, so I will, of course, give him the floor. Please be quiet in the hall, we are already negotiating. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. For the record, my colleague Mr Bauer and I have an appointment, and we have agreed to perform in this order. First, a rhetorical question, because I have not seen, I do not know which 43 Members or which political clubs have submitted a proposal to hold this extraordinary meeting. It's certainly a plaintiff's club, which means KSČM, but I think the Vice-President said there were 43 signatures to discuss it today, and I very much hope that we should reject it today. I may try to explain to you in a little more detail than usual why the bill is extremely unhappy and extremely bad at this time. Since March last year we have a pandemic situation in the Czech Republic. Sometime in the second half of March last year was the first lockdown and actually for the 14th month our entrepreneurs, businessmen, small, medium, large companies, employers, many of them, have been facing major economic problems. Part of them cannot do business at all, part of them has limited their business and many others are affected by the negative effects of the subdued Czech economy. I'm here today to defend the interests of small and small entrepreneurs and employers in particular. Then I will devote myself quite extensively to the government's assistance, the House, the upper chamber in the last 14 months in supporting business and entrepreneurs. Many of them have problems not because they have a bad business plan, not because they do not offer good products and good services, but because they have come in the fight against covid, they come in, I fear that they could come in by decision of the state that restricts the business. And instead of focusing on the burning question of how to help them - and the government's majority here stubbornly refuses to discuss some laws that could really help them - so come the KSČM Members and many others, I think the Social Democrats, so that I don't miss someone, with how to increase the cost to entrepreneurs, employers during this difficult time. If we take a small company that has 10 employees, so if they stick to the Labour Code, this year their employees will be taking 200 days of vacation. If he passes this bill, they're not going to draw 200, they're going to draw 250. And I'm talking about a small firm, and I know there are big employers sitting among us. That means another blackout in possible production. As a result, we have had closed schools in Europe for the longest time. Many employees had to - not that they wanted to - stay at home to take care of their children. By the numbers we get every morning, more than 1.6 million of our citizens have been positive. I don't know exactly how many of them are economically active, how many are employees. This means that sickness, quarantine, isolation, other days, when these people could not perform their standard work performance for objective reasons. One of the appellants' arguments is that in many companies employees are already on leave for five weeks, and it is also argued by the status of civil servants. I remember the debate about the Service Act, when one of the approved advantages for those who work in the public service for the State was that they would have a longer vacation. One legitimate reason for this decision was certainly the restrictions imposed on civil servants, for example, on business at work. I understand all that. Today, all employers and employees actually have a free choice, and if they want to, they can arrange five weeks' vacation, they can arrange six weeks' vacation. It just depends on the arrangement of every employer with his employees. I think if not all of them, the vast majority of employers from the smallest to the biggest logically say that the biggest capital they have is people. Because what do you have great ideas for, what do you have great business plans for if you don't have great employees? This proposal enters this freedom of choice, wants to order something, and in such an economically difficult situation increases the future costs of our employers. Of course, this can have negative consequences especially for those small ones who fight every day for economic survival, and it can contribute to the fact that some firms, some businessmen who have a few employees, simply quit. Or it can also contribute to reducing the number of jobs. I don't know if this is the intended objective of the plaintiffs - I believe not. The idea of five weeks vacation is popular. Who wouldn't want that? Who wouldn't want to do 37.5 or 35 or 30 instead of 40 hours a week? However, one of the significant revenues of the state budget is taxes, both corporate taxes and personal income taxes, and in order to pay taxes, companies, businessmen, employers must generate profits. If we increase their costs, the likelihood of profits reaching tax in the state budget is reduced, and the state is carrying out tasks that citizens cannot do on its own, whether they are tasks - and these days this is extremely timely - in defence, security, but also in education, health, social services, social welfare. [[10.10 hours]] So, basically, I don't understand why the plaintiffs want to increase the cost to companies at this time, make their situation difficult. If they think it will help them in the electoral struggle, it may be true, perhaps reasonable reasoning, but it will certainly not benefit the Czech economy. And let us compare how the Czech state helps entrepreneurs in difficult times of covid, and thanks to a study by the Parliamentary Institute, which has been received by all members of our covid commission and is available to all Members, we have a comparison of how our closest neighbours, especially Germany and Austria, have approached this assistance. Sometime last April, the Minister of Finance announced on television that the total aid to entrepreneurs by the end of 2020 - by the end of 2020 - would be an astronomical 1.2 trillion Czech crowns. I was in the debate with the Minister, it was such surprising information to me, and in the immediate reaction I called it fantasmagorical numbers that would not correspond to reality. Of course, last April it was just a theory of both those who prided themselves on the number and us who considered the number exaggerated. Not that they didn't deserve this much help, but we were very skeptical about whether the state would keep its public promise and devote it to promoting entrepreneurship, promoting employment and everything related to it. The Ministry of Finance publishes the results of the state budget every month and for several months there is a special sheet in the Excel ensemble called Help in Covid, where there are individual lines and then there is a sum. I've got February numbers in front of me. I know they're both current and March, but it hasn't changed much. And we're going to see May 2nd, or May 3rd, when I think it's the first working day, we're going to see the numbers that will be in April, which means 14 months from now. The government itself says that not by the end of 2020, but by the end of February 2021, 328 billion were spent on this aid from public budgets and around 250 billion from the state budget, which is roughly 1 trillion less than the Minister promised, while the period is two months longer. I think that we can successfully cross some of the items off this list, because although they are listed in the case of covido aid, they have nothing to do with covid as such. Last year, after many years of efforts by civil democrats, the House and the Senate approved the abolition of a senseless tax, the taxes on the acquisition of property. To put this as an anti-cooperative measure is extremely brave, but so be it, last year. But even in 2021, the Ministry of Finance calculates the fictitious revenue of this tax in case the tax was not abolished. Well, we can count on the next 20 years and every year say: We spent 13.5 billion in the fight against the covid in 2036 and it means that in 2020, with effect on 1 January or 1 December 2019, we abolished the real estate acquisition tax. All of us feel that it's just not fair, that it's not a fair argument, and therefore has nothing to do with the table. Last year it was 13.5 billion, in the first two months, I'll tell you the exact number, I'll quickly find it, which is difficult to find quickly, it's about 3.5 billion. [[Searches in the background]] Similarly, they count on covid's measures, for example, to dedebt selected hospitals that were indebted prior to the arrival of the covid, and the government would have to deal with it whether covid came or not. And it's actually almost 7 billion, here in the sum, which is a trillion smaller than the government promised, counted as well. And if we go through the individual items in detail, there are certainly lines that fulfill the promised purpose. It is the promotion of business or employment, it is of course intersecting. I want to appreciate from this place things that worked, which may have worked and which really meant reducing costs to those who had limited or forbidden business. It's certainly a very successful Antivirus C program that worked last three months. If we all remember, for those three months small companies, which were set by a limit of up to 50 employees, did not have to pay social security contributions for their employees, which is 24.8% of gross wages. This program, which was very simple, no request, you simply did not take the money that was calculated, more than 100,000 small companies participated, the reach was almost a million employees and actually saved the costs of these small companies, but also employers of CZK 13.3 billion, which is, if we count together, about 1% of the promised aid. But that was a good program. Unfortunately, since autumn, our bill has been here to reactivate the program, for example for three months of economic life in 2021, which could once again save some 13.3 billion, or 13 or 14 billion to small employers. They could use the money to pay their employees, to pay their suppliers, to invest, to improve business conditions, to buy new machines, machines, software, everything you can think of, and most of them did. A good programme, which, while having the character of a social benefit, I think we have to admit that it does not have the character of support or direct support for business, is a compensatory bonus for businessmen. The government and the secretary are very fond of bragging about it, why not. Only in these debates do we forget what the Minister originally proposed, what the government approved, what was totally unacceptable and what we have together, I point out together, in the House and in the Senate. But it really has the character of a benefit in material distress, because for those who could not do it, from one day to the next they were cut off from their income, and in real life it doesn't work the way the Minister of Justice thinks it has yet - I will stick to the correct language of the House debate - the courage to instruct entrepreneurs, employers that each of them should have cotton, and the moment the state bans them from doing business, so they are to draw on this fictional cotton. From this program, which works today with various breaks, but I have the figures at the end of February, was paid out of public resources of 20 billion and 13.3 billion was the share of the state budget. About 7 billion was a share of the city's budget, municipalities and regions, but together, despite the original resistance of the government, we compensated the finance minister for the cities, municipalities and regions, so it was supposed to turn out the way it was supposed to. This means that the person who provided this social benefit has also paid it in full. The principle is good and we've changed it together again and we've done better. But we really can't call these 20 billion as support for entrepreneurship; it should be right in the chapter of the Minister - she has been here for a while and is not - the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, because it really has the character of a social welfare. This program is not as bureaucratic as Antivirus C, but it is bureaucratically easy, it works well, the Financial Administration dealt with it very well and sent most of the money quickly. But, of course, it's not for those companies to keep going and doing business. [[10.20 hours]] The favorite program, and it wasn't at all bad at the time of its creation, or two programs, are Antivirus A and B, today we still have Antivirus A Plus. I don't know if you'll remember, if memory doesn't deceive me, if I was wrong, so I'm sorry, on September 25th last year we met, I don't know whether it was a proper or extraordinary meeting, because we're actually sitting on a continuous basis - the government put forward, in a state of legislative emergency, a proposal for an amendment to the Employment Act, to put it simply cursarbeit, and wanted us to approve it that day in a legislative emergency. I was the first to speak at that time, and I suggested that we discuss this in the ordinary legislative process, because cursarbeit is a good tool, we know from the experience of our neighbours that it is a long-term tool and that it is a good tool for critical states in the economy to implement. I think, with the exception - and I want to appreciate the courage - Roman Sklenák, everyone else did not vote in favour of the state of legislative emergency. We have taken a responsible approach to this discussion, we have tabled many amendments, we have taken part in many negotiations, we have dealt with employers, we have dealt with trade unions, we have dealt with other political partners in the Chamber of Deputies. The result is that today we have 21 April, a significant day in the history of the Czech Republic - a bit of a turn, today the ODS celebrates its 30th anniversary, we are a bit older than the Czech Republic, the history of the modern Czech Republic is also the history of the ODS. In the seven months that have passed since the request for discussion of cursarbeit in a legislative emergency, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has not been able to lead the political negotiations to a vote at third reading, to the approval of the Chamber of Deputies, to the Senate's approval, to the signature of the President of the Republic, but the instrument is important. Instead, we have programs Antivirus A, A Plus, Antivirus B, which actually substitute for cursarbeit. Once every two months, the Minister gives a speech, smiles at a press conference, and says, "I have promoted the extension of the Antivirus program to the government." I have a feeling it was this or last week that she announced the extension of these programmes by the end of May. In fact, it's the failure of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs because he spits out an idea every day, but he's not able to bring his original ideas to an end. We have another law to discuss this afternoon in a legislative emergency to raise the infirmary, back from 1 March 2021. We're discussing this on April 21st. The Minister probably does not know real economic life, because either all or the vast majority of requests for the Czech Republic for March have been made, many will already be paid. I don't know who's gonna be running it again. Employers? Are they gonna write new applications? Or will the labor authorities self-calculate and send it? I'm not... Yeah, that's a good idea. It's hard to fight because once you question any additional expenditure in the state budget in the election year, you hear: Don't do it, there are elections, think about the voters, it could hurt us. But we also need to think about public finances, healthy public finances. One can't be done without the other. Long-term, seven years, at the time of the economic boom, at a time when our employers, entrepreneurs, businessmen paid record taxes, our citizens also paid record taxes under VAT and excise taxes, and state budget revenues grew at about a rate of plus 100 billion a year, and in seven years the government did nothing at a time of abundance on the spending side, did not create any reserves. On the contrary, the reserves of health insurance companies, the reserves of the National Property Fund - have dissolved everything. And at the time of the difficult economic situation, and here it has been for the 14th month, suddenly there was nothing to take from and new and new responsibilities are pouring on employers, new and new responsibilities. So in addition to fighting for economic survival, our exporters are fighting, mostly successfully, even in foreign markets - government aid was more massive, more targeted, more effective than in our country - so they have a difficult position. Whoever falls out of that chain doesn't go back there or go back at the expense of big losses with some long time lag. And yet here comes a group of Members who want to make it harder again and increase costs again. I feel from informal negotiations that there is a majority of Members who are prepared to raise their hand and make these conditions more difficult. I would like these Members to come here and say: Yes, we will consciously make the situation of those who are doing business worse, yes, we will consciously increase their costs, we do not care what happens, because in October there are elections and this is more important than public budgets, the economic health of our companies and future tax revenues, which will only be paid by economically healthy companies. I consider this an extremely irresponsible move. Nobody's stopping anyone from freely negotiating five weeks' leave, and I know that those who can afford it have long ago, they didn't need the law because - I'm going back to what I said - they're aware of how good they have employees, and if that company can only afford it a little bit, it will, of course, allow them to do so. No, some of us are proud enough to order everyone to do that. Instead of going the other way, simplifying the rules on the labour market, greater contractual freedom, so that we have confidence in dialogue and agreement between the employer and the employee, many of you are trying to make even more of it so that the labour code - look, try to sometimes take the work code from 1995, 2000, 2005, 2010, 2020, just compare the number of paragraphs, nothing more. Every change for the worse. Instead of dealing with things that would be beneficial, such as support for short-term jobs by economic instruments - yes, many enlightened employers allow short-term jobs, meet their employees, even have, as they say, popular, shared jobs, but all this brings increased administrative costs, brings increased complications in planning the production process, but also in providing services, and the state is not willing to banish these employers in any way, for example by having lower social contributions for those who have a part-time job. That would be the right way, helping to reconcile working and family life, increase space, and even those enlightened employers who do so a long time ago. It's like testing. In the end, the government had to order it, but many did it long before, not waiting for the government, because they knew: It is in my own interest to have healthy employees and I will do everything without the government to do it, and it worked. Today we have hundreds of thousands, millions of tests a day, some ministers are fighting it, we're at something best in covid again, and the results are contradictory when I say it completely straight. [[10.30 hours]] I have been waiting for more than 30 days for the Minister of Health to respond, why he has complicated, for example, the involvement of racing doctors - I'm sorry, it's not exactly accurate - in the process of testing why it's so administratively demanding, why this whole process is actually getting complicated. In the meantime, the minister switched, but the office should work regardless of the minister and the Members should respond in time to their written interpelations. And that's a practical thing to do. It's not a coalition-opposition fight, it's not a political problem. This is about making things easier for businessmen and employers. It's not like they're two groups against each other, employers, management against employees. If that's the case, I don't rule it out, the company's gonna end badly sooner or later. That's very obvious and very clear. Let's keep looking at the Ministry of Finance material as the government helps entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, our government has become fond of grant titles. Now it's only supposed to be two or three, but it's total tens. And when you look at the amount of aid paid, you can see that the small ones - when I say small ones, it's still exaggerated in the state budget, of course - because when we look at the individual numbers: COVID - Sport 200 million, COVID - Sport II 0.5 billion, that is, 500 million, Programme Technology Agency TREND 66 million, Programme Technology Agency ÉTA 6 million, measures to minimise the impact on the culture sector, non-profit entities operating in culture 100 million, measures to minimise the impact on the culture sector, contributory organisations 600 million, program COVID - Culture I, II, III, we have three total, 600 million, program COVID - Closed establishment 0,9 billion, that is 900 million. And when you add it up, that sum is actually lower than Antivirus C or compensation bonus or Antivirus A or B. I didn't say the number with the Antivirus, and I think we need to say, it was almost 30 billion by the end of February of this year. It is certainly helping to maintain jobs, but we should have had cursarbeit a long time ago, and unfortunately it is set up so that the launch and activation of cursarbeit is decided by the government, any government, political decisions, are not automatic objective circumstances such as our neighbors in Germany. Then the government calculates the deferrals and adjustments of the tax advances and calculates that it is 35 billion. But that's just cash flow. Well, it's not enough, but it's just a delay. We will see for ourselves how the implementation of the state budget will be now at the end of March, at the end of June, when corporate tax is paid, when, of course, the taxes will be higher when advances have been postponed. Anyone who ever filed a tax return knows it was a welcome step, but it was just a delay, no forgiveness. That means that this 35 billion isn't fair to count on helping covid, because that money ends up in the state budget. Then huge disappointment in the expectations of the government for those loans, COVID I, COVID II, COVID Praha, COVID III, Guarantee COVID Sport, COVID Plus. There was supposed to be almost a trillion, and the government is very surprised that the sums are dramatically lower. All these programs together, as I read them, including the national guarantee, EXPANZE - guarantees, without COVID II, COVID - Sport and EXPANZE loans to the group make 64 billion instead of 1 trillion. And the government says, that's weird, we're offering a trillion, and the employers, the entrepreneurs, they're going to run out of 64 billion. You know what the problem is? These are loans, and those entrepreneurs have to pay them off. Many are responsible for their personal property. It's not like a state that hasn't paid the crown of its debt yet and only sends tens of billions to interest. So it's rational behavior of those who are doing business knowing that, for example, accepting another loan could mean either in the near or medium term ending business. So if we cross out items that don't belong there, we get a figure dramatically lower than 328 billion, which in itself is just 25 percent of what the Treasury Secretary promised. And now let's compare the situation in the Czech Republic, Austria and Germany. I will draw on the analysis that our Parliamentary Institute has prepared for the needs of the Chamber of Deputies. The study focused in particular on the area of support for entrepreneurs regardless of the business sector and on support intended to cover operating expenses or livelihoods. We have here again for months a draft compensation law or compensation law. Yes, he's been released for second reading, we haven't voted on him yet. The program is simple and based on experience in Germany and Austria, then I will provide you with more detailed information. There they do not consider entrepreneurs to be vulgar suspects who have to prove today and daily that they actually mean well and that the state does not want to run. In my opinion, the aid is logically divided by the decline in sales, which is an objective criterion. The monthly VAT payers provide an overview of their income every month, quartal payers provide an overview of their income every quarter of a year, and then we have non-payments, they have income of up to CZK 1 million per calendar year, this information is received by the state once a year in the tax return on personal income tax. Let's start at home first. Compensatory bonus, I've already talked about it, 500 kroner a day. At the time we approved it, it first applied to the CFI, then we added to it small partners s. r. o., then those who are working on the agreement to carry out the work were assigned to it. Last year this was also a good measure, i.e. the remission of minimum social and health insurance advances, which was less than CZK 5,000, and in those six months it was less than CZK 30,000, and that again was the cost saved. Since February, the compensation bonus is CZK 1,000 per day, but at the same time minimum advances on social and health insurance are paid, so it is more stringent, it is not so flat, it is 50 per cent decrease in sales. It seems reasonable at first sight. Let's say what's the difference if your sales drop by 49 percent - you get nothing, and when your sales drop by 50.1 percent - and you get 31,000 a month. I think it should have been chosen on a step-by-step basis, as they do in Austria and Germany, starting with a decline of 30% and having the amount of support based on how high the decline in sales was. Then we had the COVID - Rent program, which paid up to 50 percent of the rent. The original condition was, however, that the owner of the building or establishment would provide a discount of 30 percent, then the state would add 50, the tenant 20. This condition was later abolished - and I would say correct. On these examples I show you that the government, but unfortunately also the House, has very often followed the method of trial and error. No, it gets worse. Very often those legitimate reservations, comments, supplements were heard in the debate, especially from opposition benches. The government majority rejected them to show up - in three weeks, here in six weeks, here in eight weeks - that it needed to be fixed, so we lost time and changed those conditions very often. [[10.40 hours]] Then we have COVID - Gastro - Closed establishments. This was a program that supported and compensated according to the number of employees, CZK 400 per day per employee. And then other programs I was talking about a while ago. And now let's look at the West, geographically and politically. In Germany, in the first period, the distribution aid was I. If the decrease in sales was between 40 and 50 per cent, the State paid 40 per cent of fixed costs. Thus, there was no difference whether you were renting or borrowing and paying interest, whether on an investment loan or mortgage loan. If the decrease in sales between 50 and 70 %, the German State paid 50 per cent of fixed costs and the most affected, these are mainly those who were really forbidden to do business and the decrease in sales was higher than 70 per cent, the German State paid 80 per cent of fixed costs. Then came the Trial Support II, where the lower limit had decreased, so the lower limit was between 30 and 50 per cent when sales fell, the State paid 40 per cent of fixed costs. If the drop was 50 to 70 percent, it increased from 50 to 60 percent. And if the decrease in sales was higher than 70 per cent, the German State paid 90 per cent of fixed costs. In November and December there was a lockdown in Germany, so they had special November and December assistance in the lockdown. This was the case for directly or indirectly affected companies and the closure week was equal to a contribution of up to 75 percent of sales for November or December 2019. Generous, simple, right. And then there was Spelling Support III, when the border increased again to 30%, if the decrease was by at least 30%, 40 percent of fixed costs, 50 to 70 remained 60 percent of fixed costs, and with sales falling by 70 % and more 90 percent of fixed costs. When we look at Austria, the first contribution to fixed costs was I, where sales decreased between 40 and 60 % paid 25 per cent of fixed costs, while sales decreased between 60 and 80 per cent paid 50 per cent of fixed costs and sales decreased by more than 80 per cent 75 per cent of fixed costs. Then came the contribution to the fixed cost of 800,000 euros if the sales dropped by at least 30%, the amount of the contribution was based on the percentage of the loss of sales. [[to]] So it's a simple example. If you had a loss of 60 per cent of sales, the Austrian State applied and paid 60 per cent of fixed costs. When you had a loss of 65 percent of sales, the State paid 65 percent of fixed costs to Austrian entrepreneurs. They then had a loss compensation scheme in Austria, where the condition was a decrease in sales by at least 30 per cent and the compensation was 70 per cent and 90 per cent respectively, i.e. a loss compensation. And then the compensation at the lockdown was 50 percent of the expected loss for the directly affected retail entrepreneurs 12,5, 25 or 37,5 percent of the expected loss. That's kind of a summary. When we compare the area programs based on the objective criterion of the decline in sales, because the Czech state has the information, it would not have to find out anything, and then those so-called sectoral programs COVID I, II, III, IV, V, VI, A, B, C, and I don't know all the other, so first of all, for those sector programs you always forget about some sector. That is why new and new programs were created, because quite rightly the entrepreneurs, employers from some sector - you forgot about us, the government. And that's actually logical at the moment I choose this complicated, bureaucratically demanding, not quite successful path. At the moment you have the area programs for the really disabled, for those who have had a real, real decline in sales, you don't solve individual sectors, you don't forget anyone, there is something like fair help. Not who has more negotiated, which union has better relations with the government, not according to which minister in government has a stronger political position, and therefore puts his agenda through, better than a colleague who does not have such a strong political position in that government. When we sum up all programmes in the Czech Republic, which have the character of area aid, it is a compensatory bonus - well. As citizens' Democrats, it was a good program. In order not to be accused of how often the members of the government say: you actually criticize everything, so we don't criticize this, we commended this, we voted in favour. Not in those parameters, as we thought, but we supported the compromise here in the lower and upper chambers. Cancellation of minimum advances for sickness and social insurance - excellent program. Today we will submit another amendment to these laws, which would repeat this programme in 2021, so again praise. Possibility of delaying payment of rent and delaying repayment of loans - here the state intervened between, stood in the middle of financial institutions, entrepreneurs. In our covid committee we received relatively detailed information from the Czech National Bank. I think it worked fine. Banks went beyond the legal obligation, especially those who had honestly fulfilled their obligations by the time the crisis broke out, very often complied with, approved the deferral of the instalments, and certainly helped in the cash flow of those who asked for it. So it was a good decision, too. The sector programs are much worse. I'm quoting the relatively small amounts. Many entrepreneurs rightly complain that it took a long time and that it was bureaucratically challenging. I've never understood, for example - let's give a specific example now - so much praised programs Antivirus A and B. Do you know what is a mandatory part of the company's basic registration for the program? A copy of the contract since the bank account was opened. But these companies send contributions to the Czech Social Security Administration every month. Each firm at the financial office records the accounts it uses for business. The state has all the information, yet it still wants it again and again - I think it is intended that part of the applicants will not succeed in the end. Then there were completely new programs, such as the Czech Republic for tradesmen. The name's already wrong. It wasn't really for treating a family member, it was for babysitting the kids where the schools were shut down. I have about three weeks old MIT data, and know that there are still hundreds of pending cases from May 2020, June 2020, July 2020, and I could continue this way. The reason is simple - poorly selected software, unlinked, high human factor, which obviously increases the risk of error. Most of the mistakes turned out to be on the MIT side, where on the one hand, the officials are overloaded, because there are a lot of applications and they are in paper form. MPO - country for future, says Karel Havlíček, where he goes - did not receive requests by email as opposed to Financial Administration. [[10.50 hours]] The financial administration managed to do so in a much larger number - by the way, that was our amendment, it did not pass in the first round, but then we agreed with the Minister of Finance and it was a good thing that we agreed, but in this case, this social benefit is simply not possible to date, so some came up with the idea that it should be provided - or it may be by e-mail, but it must be accompanied by an electronic signature. We all know how small an electronic signature is. In another debate, we can make arguments and look for reasons why it is so little widespread. In my opinion, the answer is simple, because it is bureaucraticly difficult, and many are afraid of it and therefore do not even try it, because they prefer to devote time to e-signing their business. Compensatory bonus for self-employed persons and small s. r. o. is defined for incomprehensible reasons as helping business. If we take the spring season and then the second one, so now I have the exact numbers here: 2,352 was the forgiveness of the minimum advance for health insurance and 2,588 was the minimum advance for social security. This means that, despite the same amount of compensation bonus paid, real aid was actually a third lower. Businessmen rightly pointed that out, but nothing really happened. I am talking in particular about the compensatory bonus from October 2020. The fact that we have six bonus periods at this point in time for such a simple thing. I don't know if we realize this: six bonus periods, six applications, six administration times instead of one. The first bonus period from 5 October to 4 November, the second bonus period, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, ended on 15 February 2021. Since February, there has been a new compensation bonus, where there are 1000 crowns. However, there is a problematic one single border - a decline of 50 per cent of the monthly average. I think that other opposition colleagues were talking about it at another point, that is, at another meeting, when, in fact, those who were trying to at least look for work and maybe only had a decrease of 45 percent of their sales, eventually got nothing. So unfortunately, the activity in quotation marks was punished once again. COVID - Rent. Do you remember the public promise of Minister Havlíček that it will be 100 percent? And do we remember what the reality was? The reality was completely different and unfortunately lower. I will not tire you of detailed analysis of others in our opinion of failed programs. Even the new programs approved by the government for this period are illogical, they do not have different boundaries, the government has failed to learn from successful foreign models. Now, how it worked in Germany. Right in March last year, the German Federal Government prepared an immediate aid programme for civil servants and small businesses. It was intended for small enterprises from all sectors of the economy as businessmen and persons engaged in free professions. Within the framework of the aid, entrepreneurs could receive a one-off non-refundable grant for a period of up to EUR 9 000 for three months in a row. This was for enterprises up to five employees, or 15 000 euros for enterprises up to 10 employees. The subsidy was intended to cover fixed costs. For businessmen, small and medium-sized enterprises, but also large companies, a loan programme covered by the State Development Bank, large companies, over 250 employees in Germany, can apply for support from a stabilisation fund aimed at supporting the liquidity of companies in all sectors in the form of guarantees or recapitalisations. Since June last year, small and medium-sized companies have been able to apply for carry-over support. Small and medium-sized companies that have been forced to suspend or significantly limit their business activities as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic may apply. At the same time, special support was prepared for companies closed for lockdown in November and December. Now I'm going to give you a few details specifically to support small and medium-sized enterprises. The programmes were divided into three time periods: June to September 2020, October to December 2020 and from January 2021. In that first period, June to September 2020, applications could be submitted from 13 July to 9 October. The maximum amount of the allowance was set at EUR 150 000 per three months, which is EUR 50 000 per month. Only tax advisors, auditors or accounting officers could submit requests. Companies from all sectors of the economy could ask for support - that is the difference with our sector aid - if they were not eligible for support from the economic stabilisation fund, they did not have more than EUR 43 million or EUR 50 million in one of the last two financial years before 1 January. They could have asked for all tradesmen and all who pursue free professions. We have long forgotten them and forgotten them. For example, Mr Martin Baxa repeatedly talks about this in his speeches. And that support could have been requested by nonprofit companies and organizations. Of course, they had to meet some of the conditions for obtaining aid. The cessation or limitation of commercial activities was wholly or partly due to COVID-19. Sales had to fall by at least 60 per cent in April 2020 and in May 2020 compared to the previous year. The applicant had to fulfil other conditions concerning the health of the company or business. For example, they were not allowed to be in insolvency to ask for this help. If the applicant had not continued to operate until August 2020, he would have had to pay back the contribution. That means, it was quick immediate help who kept the business, it was a subsidy. Unfortunately, whoever couldn't keep the business, it had the character of a loan, and they had to give it back. Without suspicion, without obstacles, just trust in the businessman. After all, it is the primary concern of every entrepreneur to keep the business going. If he couldn't even do it with the state aid, that aid had the character of a loan. It seems to me a fair offer that has certainly contributed to the German economy's handling this situation very well. And the subsidies were not paid out to companies that had ceased their activities or an audition proposal was filed. Which is reasonable: if you're no longer in business or in bankruptcy, the state won't send any more money. The amount of the carry-over aid, as I once said, was 80 per cent of the fixed costs at a time when the sales decrease was greater than 70 per cent, 50 per cent of the fixed costs in the event of a decrease in sales between 50 and 70 per cent and 40 per cent of the fixed costs in the case of a decrease in sales between 40 and 50 per cent. They were also defined to be completely clear about what fixed costs are. And they could not be changed in the situation that was in force on 1 March 2020. Rent and leasing, interest, property taxes, staff expenses that cannot be transferred to the cursarbeit, the costs of the consultant when submitting applications for carry-over aid were all fixed costs, that was added up and, according to the decline in sales, the State paid a certain percentage of fixed costs of 40, 50 or 80 %. [[11.00 hours]] A solution that was different from the Czech Republic - the carry-over contribution is taxable and must be taken into account in determining profits in accordance with tax legislation. The maximum aid was 50,000 euros a month. If the company has up to five employees, the maximum refund shall be EUR 3 000 per month, with 10 employees EUR 5 000 per month. The number of full-time employees was crucial as of 29 February 2020. We had slightly more stringent parameters in the Antivirus program. There was 90 per cent of the number of jobs held and 90 per cent of the wage volume. The state really helped them with the 13 billion. The Germans also thought of a situation where affiliated companies or companies owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the same person or company. A company like this, a conglomerate like this was viewed as one business entity. The second period, the second bridge aid in Germany was between October and December last year. Applications may be submitted until 31 March 2021. For three months, the companies had the power to apply. Let's look at Antivirus A and B. How much time do companies have? Sometimes 11, sometimes 10 days. Calendars, not work. In Germany, three months, 90 calendar days, nine times longer than in the Czech Republic. In fact, the maximum amount of aid was the same as in the first period. In this case, it was 200,000 euros, but because it was for four months, it corresponds to 50,000 euros a month, which was the same as in the first transfer period when 150,000 euros were for three months. Once again, only tax advisors, auditors or accountants could submit applications, which means that there was an increase in the likelihood that the application would be completed in a qualified manner, that there would be correct economic data, so the error rate was much lower. The conditions were the same as in the first period, so I won't repeat them. There were only these differences. They had to demonstrate a decrease in expected sales by at least 50 per cent for two consecutive months between April and August compared to the same month in the previous year, i.e. 2019, or proof of an average decrease in sales by at least 30 per cent between April and August. It seems fairer to me again, because you're assessing a longer period of time, and it's been four months. In some months, sales could have been slightly higher, sometimes lower, but the entire transition period was assessed. The ceilings for the smallest companies were abolished, which means that the ceiling was no longer 3 000 euros for companies up to five employees and 5 000 euros for a month up to 10 employees. Only the upper limit of 50,000 euros remained. The amount of carry-over aid increased for the highest drop in sales from 80 to 90 per cent and decreased from 40 to 30 per cent below. So we went through the help of our western neighbors in March, April and then February, March, April to August (?). Then in November and December he was a lockdown, so there were special programs for the lockdown season that paid off for those two months. This was valid for those companies which were affected by the operating restrictions decree issued by the Länder following the decision of the Federal Chancellor and the Presidents of the Governments of the Federal States of 28 October. It concerned directly affected companies, i.e. those which were closed by decrees. Accommodation companies and venue events were also considered directly affected by the company because it was not possible to operate the activity. Indirectly affected companies were those that regularly generate at least 80 percent of their sales with companies that were directly affected, that is, they also dealt with the supply companies, such as hotels and the like, because they had no business prohibited, but their most important customers had banned business, so they could not buy products and services from them. And that's where it was paid weekly. Up to 75 per cent of sales from November 2019 or December 2019 were paid for each closing week. And then came 2021, when the Spelling Support III was created. The assumption for this aid is a decrease in sales related to the COVID-19 crisis by at least 30 per cent per month for which aid is requested between November 2020 and June 2021. It is used for comparison as the reference months of 2019. Specific provisions shall apply to those companies which were established on 1 January 2019 for the period up to 31 April 2020. This also means that those who started their business later have a chance of achieving support. All companies in all sectors can demand if they have an annual turnover of up to 750 million euros - all traders, all those who pursue free professions. Non-profit companies and organizations - there again increased the aid to 90, 60 and 40 percent according to the decrease in sales from 30 to 70 percent. If you're interested in the new rules that apply to this transition period, I'd be happy to remind you of them. Maximum monthly support of EUR 1.5 million - previously it was EUR 50,000, so increased three times (?). Advances - even an advance - is paid up to 100 000 euros. It also applies retroactively to November and December if the aid was not used in the months of the lockdown. Look at the different attitude. In our country there are desperately short deadlines to apply. You're gonna miss it one day, you don't stand a chance. Again, it's particularly small. Send in a day later, you're dropping out of the program. Here and backwards, if you haven't used it for many of the reasons you were entitled to, you can apply back in the next six months. That's what I call a helpful approach, not that I'm going to give extraordinarily short deadlines, and then I'm actually glad because X percent didn't work out, and I actually saved something. We spared nothing because if we don't have healthy business companies, we won't have tax revenue. Those are savings in the wrong place. I think that's quite clear. This is not really a coalition versus opposition dispute. We should all agree on that. We can have a dispute about which program is better whether the parameter should be 30 % or 25 or 35. But it is essential that it is in the economic interest of the Czech Republic, in the economic interest of public budgets, whether state or municipal or regional, that we have healthy, functioning companies that employ people. They will pay a tax on income from dependent activities. The charges will be paid. They'll have money, they can buy goods. They'll pay VAT, they'll pay excise duties. Here's a generous approach that gives you a chance to repair it, even for those who didn't make it in the first term, so that they wouldn't lose their help. The compensation is even paid to companies that operate with pyrotechnic goods. That's kind of a funny thing to say because fireworks were banned. Even these companies are paid compensation because it's a legal business. We may like it or not, but if any business is legal, then everyone should have the same right to support if they were affected by the crisis. Because, of course, there are companies everywhere in the Czech Republic, Germany, whose products were much more desirable in times of crisis, which thrive, recruit employees, increase profits. So we're not talking about 100 percent of all companies, all companies. We're talking about the ones that were actually hit. And this year in Germany, the maximum contribution for a businessman or for a free profession, as an actor, has increased up to 7.5 000 euros a month. Not in a nutshell, quite comprehensively, as they approached it in Germany. [[11.10 hours]] You can tell me that I chose the richest state of the European Union, that it is difficult, that it is the strongest economy, so I have a comparison with one state about the same size, also with our neighbour, and with Austria. And I think our ambition should be: to be at least as economically strong as Austria. The Czech countries in Austria-Hungary were also the main source of economic power. In Austria, the Federal Government created a fund for assistance of EUR 15 billion in the form of subsidies and compensation for losses. The government gradually prepared three programmes financed by the Fund supporting entrepreneurs who had to limit their activities as a result of the crisis. These three basic programmes include a contribution to fixed costs, which we are talking about here for a year and nothing, a contribution to fixed costs of EUR 800 00 and a compensation loss programme, and at the time of the nationwide lockdown they still had a special program of compensation during the lockdown. So let's imagine these three basic programs gradually. Firstly, the contribution to fixed costs I. The programme was valid from mid-March to mid-September last year. The period for which applications are submitted shall be three consecutive periods. Conditions for obtaining the contribution: All companies eligible for the application were those whose sales fell by at least 40 per cent between 16 March and 15 September as a result of the crisis compared to 2019. The request could be made online by the end of May, in writing until the end of August. It was similar to Germany, according to the level of sales decline, the corresponding amount of fixed costs was paid. So 40 to 60 per cent, 25 per cent of fixed costs, 60 to 80 per cent of sales loss, 50 per cent of fixed costs, who had a loss above 80 per cent, got 75 per cent of fixed costs. This contribution was paid in three instalments. The first instalment consisted of a maximum of 50 per cent of the estimated amount of the subsidy and then 25, a maximum of 75 per cent, and in the third payment there was the remainder. The companies that requested, i.e. those small ones who requested a fixed cost allowance of less than 12 000 euro, could still take into account the costs of tax advisors, auditors or accounting officers up to 500 euro as fixed costs. It is reasonable because the smallest have not such a large economic department, they have to hire someone, so these hired services were part of compensation, up to 500 euros. How did Austria define fixed costs? Rent for business premises, leases, insurance policies, interest costs for loans and loans, share of the cost of financing lease payments, fees for operating licences, electricity, gas or telecommunications, loss of value of goods subject to rapid destruction or seasonal goods, personnel costs incurred as a result of the crisis, such as cancellation processing, over-accounting and the like, adequate remuneration of the income tax entrepreneur. For companies that requested a contribution to fixed costs of less than 12 000 euros, there was also a wage for tax advisors. Expenditure on other contractual commitments not affecting employees. The company must have its registered office or establishment in Austria. Let us remember our unsuccessful struggle from the opposition to exclude from state aid in the Czech Republic companies that are based in tax havens. We failed. Incomprehensible - we failed. So I haven't forgotten. Unlike Austria, which logically claimed to support its taxpayers, it logically supports companies that have their registered office or establishment in Austria, we were also prepared to support companies that have their registered office in tax havens - unfortunately. The company operates in Austria, which leads to income from agriculture or forestry. Business operations, suffered a loss of sales and had to take appropriate measures to reduce fixed costs. That means, it wasn't like someone was artificially increasing their fixed costs because they found out that a certain percentage would be paid by the state. The second programme of the three was a fixed cost contribution of EUR 8 000. It concerned the period from September 16th, which means there was no delay even a day. The first programme was until 15 September, the second programme started on 16 September and is valid until the end of June of this year, stable for nine and a half months. The period for which you can apply is up to ten consecutive periods or two consecutive blocks with the exception of November and December, to which I can still get, that was the national lockdown, a special program. The application can be submitted until the end of this year - six months. I don't think any minister listens to this, but it should be listened to by Czech government ministers. For six months, entrepreneurs in Austria have to file the application. I don't know why we can't, if there's no other way. The amount of the allowance is based on the percentage loss of sales, 60 per cent of the loss, 60 per cent of fixed costs. Payment shall be made in two terms, in two instalments. The first one was requested from November last year, at the latest by the end of this year. It will cover up to 80 percent of the expected aid and the second instalment will be in the second half of this year. Only the difference amount will be paid, the deposit will be deducted. Companies with a lower turnover of less than 120,000 euros, in our case, if we quickly translate it at an approximate rate, so let's say it is 3.5 million crowns, they don't have to prove anything, they can give at a flat rate and 30 percent of the fixed costs they get. Originally, the amount was set at a maximum of EUR 800 000 for one company, additionally up to EUR 1.8 million. For companies in primary production of agricultural products, the maximum amount is EUR 225 000; for companies in the fishing season it is up to EUR 270 000. No later than within the second application, all aid paid or promised by the company shall be added to the contribution from this programme. The height of the loss of sales and fixed costs must be confirmed by the tax advisor. This means trust in the state, professionals who keep accounts, provide tax advice, process audits, are those renowned and qualified persons who confirm the data and the state takes them as a coin. It is constantly controlled, controlled and controlled in our country. This is where I think they solved it elegantly and correctly. In this second period, fixed costs were set out in more detail so that it would be quite clear to tax advisors and auditors what can be counted into fixed costs. These were rents for business premises and leasing, interest expenses for loans and loans, insurance policies, operating licensing fees, telecommunications, energy, heating costs, loss of goods subject to rapid destruction or seasonal goods, provided that, as a result of the crisis, at least 50 per cent of their value has been lost, personnel costs incurred solely in connection with the processing of crises, contingent cancellations and over-accounting, tax advisors, auditors or accounting officers, expenses for other contracted payment obligations, depreciation or depreciation of fixed assets, transfer of depreciation to movable assets, leasing payments or part of the cost of financing lease payments, expenses for the remuneration of the company's executive director to the maximum - that is a nice sum - 2,660,67, clearly divided by three, I don't know exactly what, but the result is €2,660,67, the maximum remuneration as the fixed cost of the company for the company's executive director. It's reasonable, it's not overkill, but even the manager is counted into fixed costs, because the company has to be run by somebody. [[11.20 hours]] Personal costs of ensuring minimum operation and preventing temporary closure irrespective of occupancy. Expenditure from June to March incurred as part of the preparation for generating sales over the reference period and from fixed costs shall be deducted from insurance premiums. That's reasonable. If someone was insured, the insurance company paid off the performance, so it is deducted from the total fixed costs. That's the sum. The tax advisor or auditor shall make a product and shall apply for 25, 60 or 80 per cent of fixed costs. Again, the company must have its registered office or establishment in Austria - a condition without which aid cannot be paid - and the company must have suffered more than a 30% decline in sales. I have already said that there are simply economic winners of the pandemic crisis, so it is, and of course they are not entitled to any support. The Loss Compensation Programme - this is the one that also applies from September to the end of June 2021. Here, I think we see a clear inspiration for the new program prepared by the MIT, and by the title, and the brief characteristic of the program. For us, a 50 per cent decline in sales is a condition, in Austria a 30 per cent decline in sales. We recommended to our covid committee that the amount, the limit be reduced to at least 40 per cent and for the smallest companies to be even lower. Once again, applicants have six months, for the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. She doesn't listen to me, but she should listen. She probably can't imagine that entrepreneurs would have six months to ask for what they're entitled to. The loss compensation shall be 70 per cent of the assessment base. In the case of small or very small enterprises, this will be up to 90 per cent. That's what we recommended in our covid committee. In this case, however, the vote was not unanimous - the opposition recommended it, representatives of government parties rejected it. Again inspiration in Austria. It's nothing we invent, nothing we shoot from the side. Compensation is increased to up to EUR 10 million for one company. Again, it takes place in two instalments, i.e., not a year for evaluation, but in the first instalment, up to 70 percent of the expected loss guaranteed by auditors, tax advisors or selected accounting officers through an expert opinion by their signature and professional honour. Calculation of loss: the loss of sales is calculated by determining the difference between total sales in the reference period and total sales in 2019. That's the reference period. The starting point for determining the loss compensation shall be the loss suffered by the applicant during the relevant reference periods. Loss is the difference between income and directly and indirectly related costs of the company. The calculated loss shall be reduced by the compensation already paid. Again, there is a condition of the company's registered office in Austria plus it must be taxpayers who have not violated tax laws and tax regulations in the last three years and no legally binding financial penalty or equivalent of a financial penalty could be imposed on the company over the last five years and insolvency proceedings were not allowed at the time of the application. As in Germany, Austria was in November and December last year a nationwide lockdown and, like in Germany, they had a special programme of support for entrepreneurs for these two months. For closed premises, such as hotels, restaurants, so actually similar solutions as in the Czech Republic, what was closed was valid. The loss of sales during the period of the express closure of establishments in November 2020 was offset by up to 80 per cent of the sales from 2019. In other words, if the hotel had sales in 2019 in Czech terms a million crowns, it would receive CZK 800 000 in case of closure. Simple, fair, verifiable by an auditor or expert opinion. If he had sales of CZK 2 million, he received CZK 1.6 million, and I think we, who know the business environment in more detail, agree that 80 percent of sales can definitely be maintained by business, that is nothing dramatic. Yes, it is unpleasant, but 20 per cent in the short term in the order of several months the company will survive, retain its employees, and at the time of opening it can continue where it left off. She's not financially exhausted, she's not completely broke. I think it's a great program to be inspired by. And by paying until the end of this year, it doesn't mean it's too late. It's still not too late. Every day is later, but it's still not too late for those companies to breathe while they still exist. But if we wait too long, we'll save so-called, because there'll be no one to ask for that help. Jobs will be lost, taxes will be reduced, social and health insurance payments will be reduced, state budget expenditure will be increased to support unemployment. Who would like to go this way? We certainly don't. That's well-invested money, and thanks to that, Austrian companies survived the national two-month lockdown, and I think it paid off. If I would like to make some final summary or conclusion, Austria and Germany are using area programmes designed for all small and medium-sized entrepreneurs from different sectors of the crisis-stricken economy. The aid entitlement and its amount depend on the decrease in sales and is calculated as a percentage of fixed costs. At the same time, in specific cases, these programmes are supplemented - not replaced, supplemented - by specific sectoral support. This means that even the selected sectors, which were harder than others, apart from the general support to all, had special sector support. And I say, "Why not?" I think it's objective again, that everyone will understand. And for the lockdown period from November to December in both countries, Germany and Austria, special programs were prepared, which were more generous and which brought more support and compensation. I'm just reminding you of the conditions: they had to be decent taxpayers, they couldn't have had any tax offenses, they couldn't be convicted of any financial penalties. That feels right to me. It is intended to help those who have always helped the state by doing a decent job and fully fulfilling all their obligations towards the state. On the contrary, in the Czech Republic, the area support for the CFI and the partners of small s. r. o. affected by the crisis was directed in the form of a compensatory bonus, which really does not have the character of business support. It's for these people to have personal expenses and to support their families, so that's a dramatic difference. At the same time, several programmes were prepared to assist entrepreneurs in selected sectors affected by government crisis and emergency measures in connection with COVID to cover operational expenditure. I've already discussed this in detail. You can take a picture of what was better, what was more effective, what was more effective and what ultimately was cheaper for public finances. Flat aid for clearly defined rules, trust in entrepreneurs, advance on compensation, payment of compensation, involvement of tax advisors, auditors, accounting experts. Unfortunately, we took a different route. [[11.30 hours]] Why did I talk about helping entrepreneurs for so long? The first reason is that we still can't get to points in our program that could restart some programs. This point, in my opinion and my colleagues' opinion, is directly linked not to helping but to making the situation difficult for entrepreneurs. We will vote in favour of rejecting this proposal. If this fails, we will vote against this bill. I call on all of you, trust our employers, trust the agreements between employers and employees, leave them free of contract. Where they can afford it, they will undoubtedly extend their vacation. If you order it, I'm almost certain that different benefits will end up like a sick day that employers are volunteering today and actually someone is paying one, someone three, someone five days a year in full because there is trust in the employee, the employer knows him, believes that no one is using it. And indeed, if anyone needs that short-term leave, the employer will provide it and pay him a salary. All of this can end if we legally extend our vacation to everyone, even those for whom it would have negative economic consequences. The others who can afford it do that. The employee can choose whether, for example, to work at the company where they already offer the five days as a benefit. I'm afraid of one more. I was reminding you when we were discussing the length of leave for civil servants in the service bill, and as an advantage, it was plus a week. How long do you think our left will come up with a proposal to extend state employees by a week's vacation when they all have five that they would have six? Soon. And when it passes, they'll come up with a proposition when they're six and there's others who have six, so let's make six weeks for everyone. I know it's not popular, I'm aware of that. I am aware that we are in the election campaign, but I think that concern for public budgets, for the economic health of our companies, our employers, our businessmen must outweigh the current political advantage of promising something that is undoubtedly attractive and popular before the elections. I admit that to the proposal. We're just saying it's coming at a totally inappropriate time. If we were in the middle of a boom, why not? But unfortunately, we're not in the middle of a boom. We're in the middle of a crisis and we can't see the end of the crisis yet. These are the main reasons why we will vote in favour of rejection or against this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, that was the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Since he is a privileged person, I did not lead him to speak only to the point, and I think the information he presented was interesting from another point of view. We will continue with Mr. Jan Bauer's speech, Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u4	Have a good day, thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I shall, first of all, repeat what I said to the Committee on Social Policy, what I mentioned during the first reading of this bill, which I mentioned in the second reading. I must say that I stand by my words, and I repeat that I stand by my words twice today. The proposal was not good at the time when a group of petitioners presented it to the Chamber of Deputies and the Committee on Social Policy, and given the situation we are in today, I am convinced that the proposal is not at all good at this very difficult time. It has already been heard here today by my previous speaker, but is it really true that on a simple question that you can ask here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary - do you want five weeks' leave or do you want six weeks' leave or seven weeks' leave, do you want a higher wage? - so to this simple, trivial question, I don't think there's any other answer than that, yes, consent, because everyone wants more vacations, everyone wants a bigger salary. It would probably be completely different if you asked if you thought that those five weeks of leave would be a mandatory matter for all companies, for all companies, regardless of whether they were in a good economic situation at a time when there was no pandemic, or for those who had big problems. The answer would be completely different if you asked if they were companies that actually had the means to do it, or if you wanted it in companies that didn't have the means to do it in connection with what we're experiencing not only in our country, that is, a pandemic situation. Otherwise, people would probably answer if you asked them if they were to have five weeks of vacation in this really difficult situation today. I really think that whether a company can afford to pay one extra week of leave in view of its economic situation over today's legal regulation should really not be the way the Chamber of Deputies decides from the table. And I'm asking the petitioners, are you sure or do you know from the table how the economically specific company is in this situation today? I appreciate it, and I know that not just a group of Members, but even an individual can submit any bills, but I don't think that should happen from the table. I think if someone tries to do it, if they decide to do it, I think it would be at least polite and good to ask the other opponent what he thinks about it. For this reason, I have to ask here if you have asked if you have discussed with anyone whether you have dealt with the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, if you have dealt with all the unions, if you are simply interested in the proposal or their opinion on this bill, because it is not always mandatory, but it is unwritten decency. It's just that if you come up with a proposal that can have a big impact on the business structure, what do they think about it, what does tripartite think about it? I don't have this information, and of course it's good to ask important employers what they think about it, in the context that they need to know it well, that today in all companies, things like sick days, such as extraordinary rewards, such as study leave, such as food support, extra leave, and of course other benefits. I confess to wishing their employees six, seven or eight weeks leave. Why not? It's just a sacred right. But please, for God's sake, let the particular company, the businessman himself, decide this, not that it is ordered to do so by means of an unnegotiated bill, through the Chamber of Deputies. Of course - and that is your legal right - if you want to change things by law, I think it would be at least polite for entrepreneurs to ask what they think. I am convinced - and this has also fallen from the mouth of my previous speaker - that responsible politicians, and I hope that most of us are here, should at this point rather look for what will come after the pandemic, and should take measures that will sustain the Czech economy and small and medium-sized enterprises. I am afraid that if this bill were adopted on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, instead of holding small and medium-sized enterprises, you might be able to reach them with this. To conclude, I am convinced that a five-week vacation is fine, but as an option, not as an obligation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u5	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. I apologise once again to Mr Jiří Bláh, whom I have overlooked with a factual remark. I have two factual points. First Jiří Bláha, then Ondřej Veselý. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the previous speakers, through Mr President, for the words that have been said here. It's important here that everyone realizes one crucial thing. I'm sure none of us are up for it or against having more time off, more free time, more family time, more enjoying our lives. But above all, we must have economic resources. And when we go into something that Members suggest - and of course it has not been discussed between different clubs, we do not even know the impact on the economy yet, and it is supported by today's difficult - so we are in a state that we are actually gambling with what is coming. We gamble with investments, we gamble mainly with the employment contracts of today's employees. We are in a state where, in fact, every businessman will have to consider whether he has the resources to employ others. And of course, most people start thinking in that direction that before they set up an employee, they're gonna set it up for a fixed period of time. [[11.40 hours]] There will simply be more fixed-term contracts. More contracts will be created for DPP, DPČ, more black work will be created. And all of this is because at this time, which is really hectic, and many companies today are not going to be able to pay off vacations and holidays that are legally required to pay off, so it's just going to be a huge problem. Not only will companies fail, but people will lose their jobs. So I would like to thank you, and I would like to call upon whether it would be possible for us to re-establish a group that would support compensation for the current covid period. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, the time has ended for your point of order.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Now, Mr Ondřej Veselý, with a point of fact, is still prepared by Stanislav Grospič. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Of course, I will speak quite the opposite of all three of my previous speakers. If I respect them, I absolutely disagree. It says here that the companies are the ones on which the Czech Republic says that the companies are the ones that fill the state budget. They're not companies, they're employees. I admit they're company employees, but if those companies are going to work, first of all they have to have rested and satisfied employees, otherwise they won't work. We're in the 21st century. Once there was no vacation, gradually rising, for a long time it was three weeks, I remember that, now it's four weeks. But a number of employees - and I am very happy about it - have been on vacation for five or more weeks. From my point of view, within a year of vacation, there are currently four weeks of total embarrassment, those employees who have it set up like this, I am sorry, and I believe that there will be a consensus that - when we are already supporting whom within the covideo pandemic - so that we also support employees by having enough time to rest. And what do those employees do when they're taking their rest? Sitting at home, spending no money? Well, of course they do. They draw services, buy groceries, go to restaurants. This means that if we give more a week's vacation, we will not only have rested and satisfied employees, but we will also have purchasing power that will spin our internal consumption. So I absolutely support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual remarks of Vojtěch Munzar and Jiří Bláha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u10	Yes, thank you, Mr President. I will take the liberty of responding to my colleague, Veselý, through you. I absolutely cannot agree with him. He put this place on the line, that companies don't fill the state budget and that they're employees. I would like to remind the Social Democrats that without employers, it simply is not. That means, we have to judge both planes, they're containers connected, and if we keep increasing the costs to companies, especially in today's time, it's unfortunately going to have an impact on those employees. This means, let us not oppose these two groups, as you, my colleague, did in your speech, but let us really think about having economically healthy employers who can afford to employ as many employees as possible. Unfortunately, if we tie them up with constant costs, they will not be able to expand jobs and so on. So in the finals, the employees are gonna take it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual remark from Mr Jiří Bláha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to respond through the President, because the impact is exactly the opposite. It was said here, without companies there are no employees and most of the contributions for those employees are paid by companies. Everyone can work alone, they can try, but in the finals we have more employees than entrepreneurs. I guess that's what makes it a little more complicated. And the situation that we're gonna put in place for five weeks today, so what's the outcome? Each of us who employs people will not expand jobs. How's that gonna work out? Although existing employees will have five weeks' leave, they will have much more work to do in the company, because they will have to handle the work for those colleagues who are on vacation. So there's going to be more overtime, there's going to be more tension, there's going to be more pressure to increase power, it's going to lead to all of this. I don't know if a colleague can figure it out, but for me, it's about not meeting a work trial to keep people busy. I've been employing them, employing them for 30 years, and trust me, I appreciate each and every one of them. I'd like to give them some more free time immediately. Try to come into the service and you will find that seven days a week you have to provide services. The moment you're supposed to do this, it doesn't work economically, because the price of work is high, but the profit is small. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, once again, your time has ended for your point of order.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u13	A Real Comment Ondřej Veselý, then Pavel Juříček. First, colleague Ondřej Veselý with a factual remark. Stanislav Grospič is still on hold. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, of course, social democracy has been fighting these arguments here for 143 years. And if it were, as you say, it would still be 12 hours working hours, no vacations and Sundays only, and in fact, it would be the perfect job market, and everyone would be so rich. That is, of course, nonsense. If you just look at the whole world, those countries that are more advanced have more performance, there are people who have more earnings, longer vacations and shorter working hours. On the contrary, in the developing world, it is exactly the opposite as you advocate. That means that in your logic, it should be exactly the opposite. States with the shortest working time, with the highest earnings and with the longest vacation should actually be completely on the hunt and completely without a business environment. It is precisely the opposite, and it is precisely because those employees have advantages, value their work and go to work. Yes, an employee costs an entrepreneur. Yes, but the employee also brings returns for the businessman, the employer, so it's 50-50. I agree with my colleague Munzar on this, and we need to balance it out for me. But we now consider it unbalanced towards the employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Pavel Juříček, with factual remarks, before I give you my word, Mr Vojtěch Munzar and Mr Jiří Bláha. And I would remind you that factual remarks respond to the course of the discussion, do not replace performances in the discussion itself. Now, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do wonder here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's quite obvious here that whoever has some life experience, whether as an employer or an employee, can't say a bunch of different nonsense that sounds in here. Of course, I'm a businessman for 30 years now, and before that, I was an employee, so I can judge and I can balance. And I have to tell you, I have the best cards for workers, not management, who have much higher responsibilities and who should make added value and new jobs and who feeds us. But to think that without employers, you will succeed here in this economy, well, please forget it forever. In the 1930's, back in the United States, governments had a rather critical attitude toward entrepreneurs. They had to change it in the early 1930s and in the beginning of World War II - and I don't want to like it as a world war, I just want to say that if someone loses respect for entrepreneurs and starts throwing sticks at them, as we are now witnessing in the case of this law, but not only this law, so they will finally see and understand that the added value is really created by employers and the management of employers, even though of course without employees. But the initial steps, whether marketing... [[President: Mr. Ambassador, the time for your point of order is over.]] Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u17	I had this idea that I had to say the reminder that a factual point was a response to the debate, not a substitute for a speech in a debate that everyone could sign up for. Now a colleague of Vojtěch Munzar with a factual remark, then Jiří Bláha and Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u18	Yes, thank you. I am duly logged in, which means I will say most of the arguments in my proper speech, but I am interested in the comment by Mr Veselý on what Social Democracy has been fighting for 143 years. I have to say, we've shifted a little over the 143 years, we don't have to have a 19th-century battle here. Just look at what happened before the economic crisis at the time of economic growth. There was a great employment when employers tried to get their employees not only by increasing their salary but by offering certain benefits. And I believe that five weeks of vacations are in many companies, and in those companies where it isn't, so it's for technical and operational reasons of the company, or it's also for economic reasons, because it's a need for companies that, let's say, have less added value, their activity has less added value and so on. And with those little companies, that's usually the deal. A deal you don't want because you want to direct it. Most of the time, with these small companies, it's an agreement between an employer and an employee. If the employee needs to take care of something, the employer can get him out of work for a day or two without showing it as a vacation. These are common stories that are happening, and we don't have to direct everyone here, employees and employers: You have to do this. Leave room for an individual agreement. I am convinced that every reasonable employer appreciates his employees and can find a way to make a deal with them because he doesn't want to lose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment by Jiří Bláha, Jan Bauer, Vít Kaňkovský, Pavel Juříček and then Vlastimil Válek. I'll ask my colleague Válek to sign up electronically so no one can beat him. In the meantime, I will measure the time for Mr Jiří Bláh. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u20	Again, I have to respond, because if the words that were spoken were true, we would actually have to have two months of vacation here, but it was the other way around. During the period of socialism, I received 14 days after my education, and it was only at 24 that I received three weeks, and the month was up to 30. So I don't know what social democracy is talking about, but it certainly didn't look socialist back then. And there was a longer vacation in the West, a longer time to recover. I'd just like to ask my colleague to answer the question of how hospitals and health care will be solved if we extend our vacation. All of a sudden, we're gonna get more workers into health care? Where do we get them? Today health care suffers by actually all doing extra work black, not official employment, because it actually determines that you can only be at work for eight hours and there must be some break between shifts, which is quite long. At the moment you have two longer shifts, you must have a longer work break and health care doesn't fulfill this and it is broken thanks to DPP, DPČ and other posts. So how are we gonna solve a job in hospitals, 'cause every 40th employee gets an extra employee by extending the time? [[holidays]] Where do we get them? How do we do that? So I'd like my colleague to answer that. We could move on with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u21	The time has ended for your point of order. Now my colleague Jan Bauer and I also note that Vít Kaňkovský, Pavel Juříček, Vlastimil Válek and then Stanislav Grospič and with priority rights, because he is the rapporteur, he also has priority rights, and behind him Minister Maláčová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u22	Just for a really short time. You know, I thought - and I can see that I was wrong - that the proponents of the proposal under the weight of what's going on in our country today would withdraw because I really was convinced that it was a form of legislative marketing and that everyone here is doing it, there is nothing wrong with that at all. But I think it means not having your hand on the heartbeat that's actually going on in our country today. I'm actually convinced that's not the right thing to do. On the other hand, I don't want to reduce everyone's right to present a bill here and discuss five weeks' vacation. It is true that my speech should say that there will undoubtedly be a time in our country, some time when we start talking about extending the weeks of vacation, which I think is an objective reality. On the other hand, it is appropriate to find some optimal time for this, and for this reason I repeat what I said in conclusion: simply a five- or six-week vacation is fine as an option, but not as an obligation. And one last thing. Since 1991 I have established a trade certificate, it wasn't even called a trade name, and I'm trying to do some business or business activity. But I admit I never found the courage to marry a worker or a coworker, especially an employee, because it's not an easy thing to do. This brings me back to what I've criticized here. Really, when you come up with it, I think it's elementary decency to have that business situation, employers, middle-sized companies, small to ask what they really think about it, and not to impose it on them as an obligation, and before you decide to do so, I really know their particular opinion, because I'm convinced that many companies just can't afford it at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Vít Kaňkovský, prepared by Pavel Juříček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u24	Good morning. Colleagues, colleagues, I will follow up on the debate and I would like to respond, through Mr President, to Mr Veselý. Of course, we understand the reasons why you want to introduce the fifth week of vacation. We understand this from a factual point of view, and we understand it from a political point of view. But it is necessary to say - and here I will also follow up on my colleague Jan Bauer: I am convinced that in this House we will certainly get to the topic of the fifth week of vacation or our followers will get to it, but every such measure must also be put into the time in which we live. If we were talking about this at a time of economic boom, if we were talking about it at a time when we had another boom, the KDU-ČSL would very likely support the proposal to introduce the fifth week of vacation. But we don't live in cotton times at the moment, we live in a situation where we're going into an economic crisis. We don't know how deep it's gonna be, we don't know how long it's gonna be, but we sure as hell will be. And if we were to take this step at this point, let's just say what we're going to offer these employees. Yes, we will offer some of them a fifth week vacation, but some of them - and it will not be a small part - will offer notice because employers will not be able to guarantee their jobs under the current conditions. And if we put the scales on a bowl, if I'm sure I'm gonna keep working, that I can go to work and earn money, or if I may have, hypothetically, a fifth week's vacation, let's just say what's more important to our citizens. Let us return to this subject at a time when economic prosperity will take place. It is appropriate to improve and improve the working conditions of our citizens, but let us not do so at a time when the economic crisis begins. [[President: Your time for a point of fact has ended.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u25	Be at least in accordance with the Rules of Procedure so that I do not have to interrupt you when I am already patient alone with the fact that you are replacing your performance with a factual remark. Now Pavel Juříček, will prepare Vlastimil Válek and colleague Bláha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u26	Yes, thank you again, ladies and gentlemen. I'm gonna finish an idea that I think has a lot to do with what we're talking about here. The idea was how states, parliaments, governments cooperate with the business sphere. I have indicated here the 1930s of the United States, and since then it has been well known that there is always some sort of belonging between business, large players and small players with individual governments in the United States. But it turns out that it works in the end also in the European Union. Only the Czech Parliament - somehow we tend to do something else here and create a trench between the government, parliament and the business sphere. I can answer Honza Bauer, through the President. Yes, all business associations or Associations of Industry, Chamber of Commerce and all entrepreneurs I know do not agree with this absolutely, even though I, for example, give six extra days of leave, four weeks normally and six extra days of leave. But with the different parameters that we have introduced because of, as the agreement is, whether on the trade union stage in companies or on the agreement with the employees themselves. What impudence do we have when they introduce it, to give it to them as a duty? Where, then, is the employer's employee's award when we incredibly impertinently want to order them to do so? Yes, most entrepreneurs -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u27	Sorry, time's up. President Válek, then Mr Bláha, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u28	Then I'll sign up for a proper discussion. However, for the debate now, it's the business-employee debate. I'm getting lost in this. I was always just an employee, notaben, at the university, so de facto semi-state. And so I'm wondering, so obviously there are companies where there's a five-week working time, most of them, and then there's businesses where they're not. [[Vacation?]] So those who want to put in place the five-week working hours in these businesses, I would also like to, but I would like to have the data to do that, and the data would mean that I would like either one of the ministers who definitely have it analysed or possibly from the submitters, and I would like to say what the structure of those businesses is and what is the reason why there isn't that five-week working hours, whether it's, like, companies that employ seasonal employees, or they're family companies, or they're small companies where it's just not technically possible, or it's a certain part of the industry, or it's a region, or it's a beastly businessman, or whatever the reason is. [[Vacation?]] [[Vacation?]] I just don't understand it here. It reminds me of doing good when we wanted to ban trucks from crossing the highway without knowing why it was happening, and we bailed on all the other factors, like compliance, weighing trucks, and I don't know everything that should work and doesn't work, and we thought of a ban on overtaking just because one day it snowed, the Minister of Transport couldn't handle it and it was a collapse on the highway. Well, I wouldn't want us to go that way. Let's talk about the facts, and I would ask very much for this information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u30	Thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, through Mr President, for Mr Kaňkovský's words, for the whole matter, but, of course, for the other discussions, I think that they are pointless and that this helps to make it clear that, in fact, the whole proposal came at a bad time. We're all in favour of extension, we talked about it at the club, and a fellow paramedic got off and I'm telling him the truth. Yes, health is the most precious. But let's keep this straight - and I would like to ask Mr Stanislav Grospič, who is a translator with Mrs Hana Aulicka Jírovcová and others to answer the question of how they will deal with this in the health care sector. There's an army of people who, if we extend their vacation time, who's gonna work for them? Should we close the wards? Who's gonna make it? So those doctors who are already out of line today, illegally beyond that, are going to serve even more? Well, that's not how we want it. Do you want people in services where there is no work force for the service to work even more? To make the clerks at the cashiers and elsewhere, the bakers, the cookies, work even harder? It can't be done. It can't be done. I mean, yes, we can agree to talk about it, to prepare it, and to agree to agree to move forward for a year. But I'd prefer that companies could choose and choose employees among companies, where they would go and not go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, with a factual point, then Mr Juříček, a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, maybe I'll surprise you. I will be surprised to agree with Mr Kaňkovský, because what he said is essentially how I feel, even though I am a Social Democrat, does not rule that out. I've come from the business sphere, when I'm done here, like I'm done, I'm going back to it again, but I'm not saying that because a number of Social Democrats are businessmen. I've always appreciated my employees, and I'll always appreciate them, because without employees, a businessman can't just do business. And without an entrepreneur, the employee can't secure his family, he won't get a wage - and he's supposed to get a decent, adequate wage, but everything needs to be put in the context of the time. I am in favour of five weeks, but I think that at present pandemic times we should really think a little more about small companies, about businessmen, for whom it can really be a burden. I'm sure it's not a burden for a big firm, it can handle it, but a smaller firm, there's a problem. So I'm in favor of five weeks, but let's think about if we move on, if we don't shift efficiency by, like, two years when this time is over. Then if I was here, like I wasn't gonna be here anymore, I'd be happy to raise my hand for it, both hands would be up for it. So I think what my colleague Kaňkovský said once again, I think he has a rational core. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u33	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, after him Mr Jiří Bláha, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u34	Thank you again. I, too, appreciate, through the President, Mr Kaňkovský's speech, but allow me not to agree with colleague Jirka Bláha, through the President, and Mr Votava, because I think we are breaking into an area that does not belong to us. You always have to put it down: who, what, when and how. [[question]] And I think who's supposed to decide whether it's the fifth week of vacation, or the sixth week, or the eighth week, or the 12 weeks, it's not the role of parliament, and it's not the role of government in my mind. It's more like the role of real employers, the ones who can make money off of it. And those who don't know how to make money, then it's just gonna have consequences that have already been mentioned here. We can still talk about these impacts, but it's really not a question of our role. Please, let's leave the job to the employers, because there it divides between which company is successful and which is slightly less successful. I appreciate all entrepreneurs who can employ one person and earn one crown - and even more if they can earn one euro, but not that we're gonna start ordering them something here when they're volunteering. [[12.10 hours]] Besides, the question is, how many companies do it? I do not have the numbers either, I would like them too, but I believe what Mr Grospič also said, through the President, that perhaps 80 percent of companies do. But what's it to us? Why should we still deform it when they do it out of their own good will and thus appreciate the employees? I have to say, I have very good relationships with my employees and very good ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Bláha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the words of the previous speaker, through Mr President, Mr Juříček, and I agree with him. Yes, it has to stay on the firm. Because just to explain what it is: small companies, they give other bonuses to those employees - flexibility. That means that you don't have to come to work at 6:00 or 7:00, but come as we agree. Yeah, sometimes I need you to come over at 5:00, but sometimes you can come up at 8:00. And most importantly, you can take care of a lot of things during work hours. This means that it is the benefit of those small ones who are unable to give, for example, five, six weeks of vacation, that they are simply with those employees as family and try to meet them in completely different ways - that they perceive them listening, they have time to do so, because they often work with them. One of the things I would like again to call on the plaintiffs to tell me what they are going to do about price growth, inflation that this will create, because logically in services that are on the brink of everything, if that happens, there will have to be an increase in food prices, services. That means you're not going to see a barber for 200 anymore, you're going to go for 300. Where you go for $2,000, you go for $2,500 and so on. This means that prices are just going to rise steeply, and today, when we need to be as competitive as possible to the outside, that means to the other segment, that means to the foreign, so it's just a question that's wrong. We need to preserve today's days in order to keep competitiveness out and live in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u37	Thank you. Mr Milan Brázdil with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u38	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here to discuss employment, money, whether entrepreneurs will deal with it. I want to ask all of you, "Please, what's the most precious thing to all of us?" The most we own in this world is our time. Time we have measured, someone short, someone long, someone rich, but time, no one buys it, even the richest person in the world in the end recapitulates and says: Did I experience it well? Shouldn't I have spent more time with my family? Shouldn't I have had more time off to make my - I don't know - plans? I just want to say that there's never time to extend the employee leave. There's always gonna be a situation that's gonna say, "There's always that, there's that, there's a coronavirus." A few years ago, we worked on Saturdays, went to school. Then we had two months, then three, four. Well, there's this today. I just want to say to you: I'm not an entrepreneur, I'm just a person who sees in the eyes of people who end up in this world and are considering. I had my time - and we wanted to extend it for them to have a vacation - I should have experienced it differently. I should have considered who I was gonna talk to, who I was gonna spend it with, because time is the most valuable thing in this world, it's not money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, factual point. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u40	Dear colleagues, yes, time is a beautiful unit, and I'm sure we'd all like it as much as possible. But for me to really enjoy my free time so that I can fulfill my dreams so that I can somehow develop my family, my needs, my wishes, the wishes of my friends, relatives, I need not to have money, but to have some economic certainty. And it doesn't matter if it's in the money, or if I'm getting some benefits through the company that will help me make those dreams come true. This can also be done through the fact that in a bunch of companies it is also possible for employees to make their dreams come true. Someone's a musician - like me - so maybe the company can help him with where he can rehearse, where he can perform, where he can present himself. He's gonna help him with what he should do, and this is how we could go after a number of other industries. Many companies organize various events that contribute to making our lives as full as possible. And believe me, it is by all means more than a fifth week off that I will have that job, that I have a place to go on a regular basis - a number of people who are retiring are suddenly free of clouds and going back into the work process. And they are often more at work than tribal employees because they no longer have duties and are happy at work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u41	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček and Mr Votava will then respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u42	Thank you again. My colleague Brázdil, through the President, is, of course, right, but only partially. We each have our ambitions and our visions and our dreams. Someone is fulfilling them by taking time off, and someone is fulfilling them by doing some of their visions and plans to build a firm and build it for the employees we're talking about. And on the contrary, someone just wants to spend their whole life enjoying themselves. For me personally, the biggest waste of time these four years in the Chamber of Deputies, I have to say this publicly, because I think I could have done much more for the company and much more for the Czech Republic and to develop the company not only today in the world format, but also in a much larger world format. And I'm sorry that I've spent my time here often with idle crap and idle crap that didn't do any good. And we each have our goals and our visions, and I think that if we can fulfill these visions, then it's only right. And the need for employers to be here to create added value and taxes, so I alone took in 2017, 2018, 2019 - from which you live in your own way - 1 billion crowns on taxes. And there's nothing that can be done. The state, for it to work, and for the Chamber of Deputies to work, there's nothing we can do. You need the companies and you need the entrepreneurs. Please don't ever forget that. And health care is also paid off of our taxes, so it's all tied up, and if we deform it, we just lose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava, then with the factual remark of Minister Maláčová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Only to my colleague Juříček. I'm sure he'll admit that an employee always pulls the shorter end of the rope against a businessman. No, it's true. That's right, he's in a weaker position, I'm sure. As an entrepreneur, I've always understood that there's some protection for the employee, in any case, and that's what the labor code is for. Although I never allowed myself to act against my employees because I really appreciated them, of course, the employees of the good, the hardworking, who mean not only their well-being but also the company's well-being. That's important. Maybe that's why the family companies are important, too, okay? [[12.20 hours]] So, of course, the rules of the game need to be laid down in the Labour Code, and this includes, of course, the period of leave. I'm not questioning that it doesn't look like I'm questioning five weeks of vacation, I'm not questioning it. She already most of these employers and good entrepreneurs today, if of course the economic situation allows them to do so, they give it as a bonus. But at the moment, really in a pandemic, I see it in my friends' turn, I see it in the family too, so that I don't have a conflict of interest, God forbid, so I see how difficult it is, especially those little businessmen, self-employed people who have two, three, four, five, up to ten employees. They're really having a hard time living today. And every crown is good. And most of these entrepreneurs didn't release their employees, they didn't release them because they know well that then they need to be won by such dedicated employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u45	Sorry, time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Minister Jana Maláčová, with a factual point, then Mr Jiří Bláha, also with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I can't believe what I'm hearing here, discussing workers in this country. I think the prosperity of the Czech Republic is based on the fact that millions of people here work honestly, hard. That's right. These are the people, the citizens of this country, who built the Czech Republic in its condition. I find it very undignified to discuss the fact that they want something extra again, and in particular, I mean Mr Juříček. Look, all the arguments, statistics on how much work is being done in the Czech Republic and that we work much more in European comparison than our neighbours to the West have not convinced you, but the statistics are relentless. We can talk about volunteering here and so on. But I don't think I'm gonna let them rest, I'm not gonna let them get stronger, I'm not gonna let them increase my productivity, it's just wrong. And if we put it in the context of the last few days, I think, and I think that's the opinion of this House that we should belong to the West. We should belong to the West and work less there because rested, satisfied employees are more productive. That's my opinion, which is why we support five weeks of vacation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u47	Thank you. We will continue with the factual remarks. Mr. Jiří Bláha, then Mr. Grospič and then Mr. Juříček will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u48	Dear colleagues, I am sorry that the petitioners are not still involved in the debate. This means that they will not really answer questions about how they will deal with health care and how they will deal with inflation, how they work in services and the entrepreneur-employee relationship. This is one big issue that has been raised here, and it was certainly true once that the employee was in a worse position, but not today, not at the time of covid, not at the time of the forebears, when in fact one labour force was not available on the market, a constant shortage. Over the last five years, I've had to cut back on my company's experience, quality, performance, customer-friendlyness, how we're supposed to behave, how the environment should be cleaned and so on and so on. It's all being taken away by one and the same people. It's taken away by the good and top-notch employees who care and still point it out, but unfortunately, we all have to be quiet, we all have to tiptoe, because unfortunately, the top-notch and high-quality ones are still few, and the averages are still in control, who unfortunately do not meet what the top-notch ones will do, and they often take advantage of the very work of the top-notch ones. That's the problem. So the fact that an employee pulls a shorter end has changed. Any employee can quit immediately today and find ten jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u49	Sorry, time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Honest colleagues and colleagues. I would like to take the liberty, Mr President, of responding to my previous speaker and then, of course, to what has been said here a little bit. Yes, I want to get involved in the discussion, I have been duly logged in, I have been doing this several times, and I want the discussion of you, my fellow Members, to come to an end, and then I could get a full picture and then react to the icesco. But what I want to say here is as a helpful step that I am prepared to take together with my co-president Hana Aulickaý Jírovcová, and that is that according to Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure, the effectiveness of this law can be corrected by voting here at third reading. I am prepared to propose this when it comes to this, and to vote on allowing it to be corrected and so that it will take effect if it is willing to adopt this law in the Chamber of Deputies, from 1. 1. 2023. Because we are not blind, we perceive the time that has passed and that has struck us with a covidal epidemic. But I also want to say that the law was passed on 1 November 2018, and since then it has been constantly rolling and debating in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, Mr Petr Beitl after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. I wanted to respond to a speech and some kind of personal act by Minister Maláčová and I ask myself, who knows more about life and corporate life, whether she or I. I'm a learned boy. I had to learn because the communists chased my daddy, they arrested him sometimes, and he was an opportunist. And even though I was dating communists who were created by talented classes and I was among talented children, I wasn't allowed to study, so I had to learn and I had to work as a worker, a so-called universal milling machiner. It was called that at the time, today it's a CNC machine, because time has shifted. So I was a worker. Only then, when I had that working-class background, I was only allowed to study. I've been among the best in industry as well as the best in college, so I'm begging the Minister to attack me if I know anything, and I think I know something about corporate life, where I've been in a company since 1982 and where I've been a college professor. And as I repeat: I greatly appreciate my employees, I have excellent relations with them. Substantially - like I said - better than top management. And when I walk between them in the morning, it's not gonna happen for someone to attack or spit on me. And when I'm in the pub with them, I'm more likely to get a drink from them than some criticism. Thank you, I had to defend myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u53	Thank you. Mr Petr Beitl, Mr Jiří Bláha after him. We continue with factual remarks. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also have to respond to the Minister, although I am duly signed up for the debate. I see this very long debate here as calling for some consensus from entrepreneurs and employers. They call for agreement, tripartite, between employees and employers, and call for a similar change of law to take place in a better time. And I'm leaning towards it, too. And what was heard from the Minister's mouth? Something about scraping the skin off the employees. I consider this to be a very inappropriate term for Mr Juříček, who wrote his curriculum vitae with his work and I believe him that there is a situation in his companies as it is, and I consider it very inappropriate for all the entrepreneurs who have worked their time off, and we want them to change the law today, we want to drag them through their backs with the beggar stick that has given them time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, factual point. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the Minister's words, through Mr President. So if we want people to have more time off, let's do the thing that they won't have to go to work on Sundays and on holiday. I think it's more fundamental than five weeks of vacation. The family's biggest violation is that instead of being with the kids, when the kids are home on Saturdays and Sundays, they have to be at work. Thus, the whole process of family relationships, trips, all sorts of influence is disrupted. This is one of the most important points that should go through this House if social democracy and KSČM mean it. That's the road that's common in the West. You will go to Germany, Austria, France, Poland, Hungary, everywhere is closed on Sunday. I forgot Switzerland. Only in the Czech Republic is working to make sure that foreign companies are selling goods, because normal people, small companies, which employ their closest and known, are closed. They know the most read is the weekend. [[The most valuable?]] Not that I'm gonna give someone five weeks' leave, but that I'm gonna let him live a normal family life. I understood five years ago when my employees came to me and said, "Jirka, we don't want any more money, we'd rather have more free time on weekends when we could be with our family. Because you don't like vacationing with your family. Five weeks with your family, you're never happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u57	Mr Vít Kaňkovský and then further factual remarks will continue - Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mr Grospič, Mr Juříček, in this order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u58	Good afternoon. It also won't let me respond to Secretary Maláčová. I must say that what the Minister has done here, I cannot accept it, I consider it an outrageous statement and, in my opinion, put it in the context of the time somewhere about 35 years ago back at the Komsomol convention in Moscow. What are you saying, Madam Secretary, that we're here to skin someone? We have made it clear here that we are aware that the working conditions of Czech citizens need to be improved, that the conditions of Czech employees need to be improved, but we are also talking about the need to put this into a specific time. And if I take the factual steps that you, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, have taken in this parliamentary term, I ask, what have you done to improve the situation of Czech employees? We have repeatedly called here for the need to better set the conditions for reconciliation of work and family life, calling for important changes to the Labour Code. And did we see the changes in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs pen? Did you make such a complex proposal? So you're going to be teaching us ideologically here, but at the same time, the MPSV's workshop has become little in the direction of employees in this parliamentary term. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr President. I'm on my previous speaker, by your means, colleague Bláha. Don't be mad at me, but he's always an employer who determines when he can actually take this guy, the employee's vacation. Mostly 99 percent doesn't matter to the employees, but there's always an employer who determines this. And the fact that we here really want to reconcile that to make it possible, the legislative, legal framework for all employees to have five weeks' leave of absence, from the arguments that have been put forward here, is nothing new. There's just a discussion going on here about who needs it to fail, and who we're actually doing it for. And this is where the employer's discussion shows up. So I'm asking what kind of employers you are. And then the needs and the merit for the employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the liberty of responding to that, too. I feel like what's going on here and what the employees can hear, if they listen and think about it, five weeks of vacation doesn't mean it's gonna crash the family life. On the contrary, this will help to reconcile family life. And if anyone thinks that sick days or something like that will help it, it's over. This ended with what has now come to be a covido epidemic and what we have also adopted as the Chamber of Deputies. And here I have put forward a helpful proposal for both of us, which I am prepared to repeat, because we are aware of the difficult times, and we would like to move forward with the effectiveness of this law, because we know that the situation is difficult. But on the other hand, the statistical figures are quite clear about how five weeks' vacation has already become a normal part, albeit collectively negotiated. And where trade unions don't work, of course, sometimes employers, those wise employers, agree with their employees, because they know that rested employees and peace in the company actually increase their performance and ability and competitiveness of the company. So what's going on here, I think, sometimes it's not entirely true. And I would certainly object to the fact that it will bring some price increases and hectic price increases in Czech society. If there is a price increase and an inflation spiral, it will have a completely different nature, and economists themselves know that very well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, Mr Bláha after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. My colleague Aulická, although I respect her and consider her to be an honest person, does not even make so much decisions as the market. And if you have a market that you have at all unliberalized today, which is a labour market that we have scrambled differently, and we employers and successful entrepreneurs have no employees. If you're working in the car industry as I work, and I built a whole strategy on that, then you just have to deliver the van. So the services, as my colleague Jiří Bláha said, through the President, when there are no people, so people have to go to work on Saturday, Sunday. Well, if I don't, or not just me, but the 260 companies that work here in the automotive industry have to do the job. It's called a so-called appeal. And if he doesn't, I've already said it here in the House, if you don't do it, then in an hour of stopping one destination, you have a penalty of CZK 250 million, 10 million euros, and you can't afford that. Because one day you're gonna do it, and you're never gonna play that market again. That's why the situation is now that we lack hundreds of thousands of employees in successful companies. We've blocked the labour market with the antivirus. It's gonna work out after a while, but the market is really blocked by the Antivir. Successful companies - we have no one to work with. And that's why the situation is now that our employees are actually coming on Saturdays and Sundays. That's the situation. And then I can still respond to Mrs. Maláčová, but I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u65	Yes, thank you for keeping time. Mr Jiří Bláha, then Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the biggest employer where there is no free time, where people have to work on Saturdays, Sundays, nights, mornings when they are unable to reconcile vacations with other counterparts are the state. State through health care. There's the biggest problem that you won't even know about how much you're working, it's only through rewards. But in the finals, go ask the doctors. They have 280, 300 hours at work. Not at home, at work. So we have the biggest weakness there, and if we approve for five weeks, there's going to be an even bigger problem. And no one here answered my question. [[12.40 hours]] And just like that, why increase inflation? It's simple: if I have to hire an extra one on every 40th employee, and write that it's one and a half extra, then the money has to be projected somewhere. And logically, where they project: they are reflected in overtime, I have to pay the overtime, so my costs are increasing, I have to project them into the prices of my products. It's a vicious circle, but that's how it works. The public's response is that MEPs are stalling, MEPs are stalling, not so. I'm saying, frankly, we'd all love to have more free time for our employees, more benefits, but we have to make money on it as a state and have it as a company. We've been locked up for a year. Most companies put their own savings in it, investment funds, and they need to breathe in and move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u67	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. I'm sorry, I'm gonna turn the timer back on. Please, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u68	Dear colleagues, in response to Mr Grospič and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, through Mr President. I guess we didn't get along. I wasn't talking about a directive on having five weeks' vacation across the board making it any worse to reconcile family and work life. That's not what I meant. I was talking about the fact that if we want to improve, and in the future, I think that this is our very important task, the reconciliation of work and family life, so it is necessary to take a number of further steps, and that Minister Maláčová has spoken flamingly about the need for those five weeks of leave, but that, unfortunately, she has done almost nothing in this parliamentary term to reconcile working and family life, that is true. And once again, KDU-ČSL wants to improve the working conditions of our employees in the future, both in terms of shortening working time and possibly in terms of extending leave, improvement in terms of more leisure time. That is what we all want, but let's put it in the context of the time and see if we can really help these employees at this point in time or harm them. And I am convinced that at this time it will be a step that will make the conditions of employees worse in the sense that the labour market will deteriorate and there will be no jobs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Now in the following order: Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, Mr Grospič, Mr Juříček, President Stanjura and Mr Bláha. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Again, through you, to my colleague Juříček. Yes, I agree with you that at this time there is even more evidence of the so-called law of the market and how it is necessary to work today, because we have a lot of business companies here that will not achieve any compensation, because of the set rules it is, and no one asks them and they just have to work and work because they obviously want to work. Unfortunately, it also turned out that even those compensations that were set up at the beginning helped companies, smaller companies, it doesn't really matter where they wouldn't have worked in the normal market environment long ago, and so-called artificial employment held a bit. On the other hand, we will probably see the effects now in the autumn, where we are waiting, in a huge increase in unemployment. And maybe a colleague of Bláh. Working on the weekend also shows exactly what Juříček said here, because it is precisely that these employees today cannot choose to go to work on the weekend or not, if necessary, or have such work shifts that it is simply their classic job and the setting of the working time. And we also agreed, and it should have been said here at the beginning that we would change, and so it is to our colleague Vítek Kaňkovský, through your means, above all, efficiency, and that is another year, and it was agreed with legislation, on 1. 1. 2023. I think that even KDU-ČSL, who has supported this in the long run and said that it would be one of the options to reconcile families, work and families, should have no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. Member Stanislav Grospič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I will follow up, by your means, Mr President, on my colleague Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Yes, it was said here that we want to change efficiency from 1. 1. 2023, because we know what is happening in the Czech Republic. But I also want to say that most of the world or almost all of the world, including the European Union, is affected by the covid pandemic, and it is completely unpredictable. Each state responds to its legislation and it is difficult to have common rules, even the European Union has not been able to do so, even if it is expected of it, and I would expect it to do so, to lead all of its Member States to some similar regulation. But we see it on a beautiful case. We will close the Czech Republic, the other countries will open, and Germany will close soon, while we are unwinding again. So the disease is overflowing, it's overflowing, no one knows what to do about it, and unfortunately, it won't take advice from epidemiologists and people experienced, who have more to say about it, and it's just a political view that's enhanced by perhaps electoral preferences. But I would like to say here about the health care that has been said here: please, there is a labour code, § 213, if I am not mistaken, paragraph. 2 according to which health establishments that are state or regional have five weeks' leave, so let's talk about hospitals maybe urban, perhaps in private hands, but in most cases their owners or operators also provide five weeks' leave. So so that we don't confuse some things that are or aren't wishful thinking or reality, which I don't rule out is that there may not be medical facilities that don't. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Mr Pavel Juříček, then President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u74	Thank you. I still don't understand the question of why we have to do this by law. First of all. Secondly, I think that there is still no balanced relationship between firms, business, government and parliament. It's still like we're their superiors, telling them things, I just don't get it. That's what it takes to change your mind when we're telling everyone here that they're doing it, and they're doing a lot of other things than an additional vacation week, like I said, I'm giving six days of extra vacations with some parameters, and we have wellnesses, and we have recreation, and I built corporate apartments to do that because I didn't take care of it, so I have developers and capable people, which is why I have 178 developers today, and that's how a lot of companies do it. And you don't appreciate them at all, you still refer to us as modern slave workers just for writing 16 hours on the amendment in extraordinary cases, when your factory is on fire or if it's flooded, so you need to run it as quickly as possible. And you don't know it. I understand the Minister doesn't know this, but we've been in those companies overnight, we've been there 24 hours with these people to clean it up so we can run the company again. I just wanted to fix what wasn't done here in the past. The minute your house burns down, you're like, "Now I'm done and I'm gonna let it burn down?" So what's the responsible management? Who's the responsible person who's gonna have the property that the employees are working on destroyed? And these are the symbols of how you don't appreciate the business sphere, the businesses, the entrepreneurs and the companies that work here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u75	Time, thank you. Member Jiří Bláha. Meanwhile, President Stanjura has withdrawn from the factual point of view. Mr Grospič is then signed in with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u76	Yes, an entrepreneur equals scum, exploiter and other opinions. We hear that over and over again. I just want to say and respond to one thing, and that's, we don't know how long he's gonna be here. And imagine that there are people among us who are slowly at home all year long, and they are entitled to leave. And imagine the reaction of employees who go to work. That's such an incredible pressure on those employees who work and know that if they don't go to work, that the company will end immediately. And now it comes down to adding a fifth week, so we're done. None of us know when the covid time is going to end, and we want to talk about efficiency today. None of us know what the consequences of the company will be and how long it will take for a number of companies to recover, and we're already talking about efficiency today. That's nonsense! It just shows that we are not discussing this, that we simply do not have things straightened out so that our Czech economy does not pay for it. I would like to tell everyone that all entrepreneurs or responsible employees are primarily about employees and, above all, about keeping the job. My family tells me. No more business, close it. I say we have 200 people. We have to take care of them. It's their life's work, they're here with us. And yet we want to give them the assurance that they will be able to work where they have learned it and bring it, develop their dreams and so on and so on and so on. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. I'm sorry, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u78	Thank you, Mr President, and I would just like to start by saying what I said here maybe in 2018 that we have some conflict of interest, because I am the chairman of a small trade union, which mainly operates in transport, construction and services. And now I'm going to follow up on the essentials. Trexima Company, spol. Ltd., conducted an investigation in 2020, which carried out investigations on 1,666 corporate collective agreements from 27 trade unions representing 791 000 employees. The result of this investigation, ladies and gentlemen, was that collective agreements in 87.8% of corporate cases extend by one week the calendar leave to five weeks, and even in 2.7 percent they extend it by two weeks. So when this research generalized itself, it came to the conclusion that it is actually standard practice, that it is mostly a five-week calendar vacation, and I do not want to talk about it - I would talk about it in a proper debate, and in the explanatory report you have it, the inequality between the sectors of public, business and between each other in the length of the holiday. So this proposal is going to unite the basics from four to five weeks to straighten out a practice that is very unmatched. Otherwise, labour law has evolved gradually since 1797, first with imperial patents and later with parliamentary democracy, so the hard fight has always been that of employees towards employers and employers without the pressure of employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u79	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. Mr Jiří Bláha, then Mr Válek, will respond to a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u80	Dear colleagues, thank you for the discussion and I have to respond to it, because if I say A, I have to say B. All the companies that give these benefits give them because they know why they give them, and we're going to take that opportunity away from them. On the other hand, I was talking about it here. The little ones who don't have it, so they give other benefits, that working hours are according to the wishes of the employees. Yes, Jirka, I need tomorrow off. Can you get it for me? Will somebody else cover for me? That's how it works. I can't do that in the big ones. So if we give everyone five weeks, the little ones will fall apart. And then there's one important thing. You were talking about statistics. The Union of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic and the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises represent most companies and entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic and they say: We are fundamentally against! Why are they fundamentally opposed? They speak in the voice of employers who have been giving five weeks today, and yet they're against it. For what reason? We should be clear about this, clear about it, say. I suggest that the point be returned to second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u81	Yes, thank you. President Vlastimil Válek, then Mr Grospič - factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be brief. I agree with the proposal, I think that is a reasonable proposal. I think it's good that we have some analysis that's been made here, but I don't like the argument when 85 percent or how many companies have five weeks of work for their employees, that the rest is supposed to adapt. [[Holidays]] Don't tell me there's a lunatic sitting here who, if the statistics were to go the other way, will propose the law to reduce 15 percent of the companies who would have a five-week vacation by a week. That's bullshit, isn't it? So I really want to hear from someone who has this information, I would really appreciate it, the reason 15 percent of companies plus minus are not capable or willing, whether it's a particular segment of the market, or if it's some sort of corporate structure that those companies have in common. How else do you want to make a serious decision if you don't know what the reason for the fifteen... And just everyone here that you're performing here, you're saying that five weeks is in your companies, if you own them or work there, I'd also like to hear the 13 percent, 15 or what it is that doesn't have five weeks of vacation, which is why. Let's solve the cause so we can figure out the reason so these people can really take the vacation. Let them take it, if possible in large part, at a time when they want it not to be a Danish gift. We just want to extend our vacation? Yes! Do we want to cut the hours? Yes! Is there a way in, say, a shorter working week? Yes! That's what everyone here says. It is said here by representatives of entrepreneurs, employees, and we want to do it in a realistic way so that it can work, or in a way like socialism: Once the proletariat, there will be communism, and still nothing! No, we want to do this really, so let's get real and come out of some hard data. Whoever has them should present them to us so we can talk about them. What's so hard about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u83	Thank you. Mr Stanislav Grospič - factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u84	Thank you very much, Mr President. You know, in the 1990s, it happened gradually, and I do not doubt it, it was a legislative process, I was part of this Chamber of Deputies, the liquidation of nearly 52 trade union rights and conveniences that did not come from the period after 1948, but came mostly from the period of the first Republic, perhaps even Austria-Hungary. The unions were heavily devalued. It operates in a marginal number of companies due to small companies, works in larger companies and is very difficult to start. It's pure reality. You can ask any union leaders about that. [[13.00 hours]] Since the adoption of the new Labour Code in 2006, there has been a slight strengthening of the trade union movement, and we are now witnessing that it is once again being severely ostracized. At this point, I can say that unions, yes, stand and want those five weeks of vacation because they feel that the custom, the thing that becomes a regular part of a number of companies, could also become a draft of legal regulation. It happens in a number of other things. On the one hand, I do not understand - and perhaps I understand well - the great opposition that is being raised here primarily from the right-wing spectrum - is legitimate, I do not question it, but also understand that it is legitimate when the left - even the communist left - is fighting for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-099-01-001-001.u85	Thank you. We've got less than half a minute left. I will use it to tell you that there are still factual remarks before us by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, President Stanjura, Mr Bláha and Mr Pavel Juříček. Mr Stanislav Grospič will then speak in the general debate. But that won't happen now. Now, in accordance with the agreement and decision of the Chamber of Deputies, even though we have not discussed the 99th session of the Chamber of Deputies, I am ending this meeting for the moment, so I am interrupting. I state that at 14.30 we will continue the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and we have a fixed item 499. At the same time, I note, or recall, that in five minutes, at 13.05 p.m., the meeting of the Organizing Committee will begin.
