ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-008-014.u1	14. Government Bill on the Electronisation of Health / House print 1163/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Minister, you have the floor. I ask for peace of mind so that the Minister can speak calmly. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-008-014.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce the Government's bill on the electronicisation of health care. As already stated in the first reading and in the discussion of the Government's draft law in the Health Committee, this proposal seeks a system-wide legal anchoring of new components and technologies in the field of electronicisation in the Health Department, since the existing legislation is fragmented in this area and there are only some elements misleading electronisation in the health sector, such as electronic transcription. This state of legal fragmentation is completely inadequate, as the form of sub-regulations makes effective management of the electronic health system impossible. Especially the experience of recent months, the last more than a year, in dealing with the epidemic of COVID-19 disease has shown the need for the electronicisation of health care and its legislative anchoring. Existing statistical data in national health registers are clearly not a sufficient platform to ensure the effectiveness of health care and its sustainability, as well as the quality and safe provision of health services for the future, including an effective solution to pandemics or pandemics of similar infectious diseases in the future. It is also more than necessary to ensure the existence in real time of available and correct data on health service providers, health workers and patients enabling them to be identified. These data will be collected once and stored in one place, guaranteed in their correctness and protected under GDPR rules. The Government's bill will further strengthen the protection of sensitive personal data. A single identity area will be set up and there will be a clear identification of patients and health professionals by means of new meaningless identifiers. Health service providers will be able to safely transmit state-owned exchange networks of medical documentation in electronic form, have unified access to all services and their work will become more effective and faster. There will be data orbiting, not a patient. Of course, patients in particular will benefit as such, as eHealth services will facilitate control and enhancement of the quality of health care and will fundamentally contribute to its availability, especially where it can be accelerated and facilitated through digitalisation of agendas. The submitted government bill brings a minimalized but robust base for e-health, but it does not in any way limit the future development of e-health services through a number of providers, including private sector involvement. This proposal actually addresses the basic legal framework to which additional eHealth services provided by both public bodies and private entities can then be linked. For the patient, data on it in the central infrastructure will be available via the eHealth portal as well as the offer of other eHealth services. The proposed law includes, in particular, the basic infrastructure for the electronicisation of health care, the legally defined roles and responsibilities of entities in the electronic health system and definitions relating to the concepts, standards of communication, rules of sharing or transmission of medical documentation. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed government bill is intended to contribute in many respects to improving the functioning of the health services system in the Czech Republic, especially the currently affected pandemic disease COVID-19, which - I repeat again - has clearly shown us the absolute necessity of digitising Czech health care, the need to share data, of course safely, and I am convinced that this proposal will contribute to the quality and effective provision of health services for patients and even for providers will be very comfortable, so I am asking for its support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-008-014.u3	We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House press 1163/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-008-014.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly summarize the discussions on the Health Committee. As has already been said here, after the first reading, which was 9. 3. this year, a health committee was elected by the guarantee committee. He met at the 85th meeting on 31 March of this year and adopted the 371th resolution you were given. I'd only comment on him for a short time. The resolution says: "After the opening word of the Minister of Health docent. MUDr. Jan Blatný, reporting report by Mr Rostislav Vyzula and after the debate by the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill on the Electronisation of Health, House Press 1163, as amended by the amendment adopted." A short amendment was adopted, more or less a technical amendment, where in the introductory part of the provisions of Section 26 para. 3 for the words "social services" shall be added to the words "rightful use of trust services according to." Consequently, Section 26 (3) shall be deleted. (a) and points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph; (b). "II. It empowers the Committee rapporteur, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to propose, in cooperation with the draftsman and the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, other necessary adaptations under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. III. He shall instruct the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Rostislav Vyzula to present the opinion of the committee to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies." This is the resolution that has been adopted. I don't think there's anything to say about content. The Minister has explained everything. This is an extremely important legal standard. I would just like, in essence, to ask, as rapporteur, to merge the debate with the following paragraph 15 - electronisation, related health laws, House press 1164, because this is related. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-008-014.u5	Okay. We would vote on this proposal without delay. I'll call the MPs. [[Gong.]] So I think we're in sufficient numbers here. The rapporteur, Rostislav Vyzula, suggested that we merge the general debate with the House press 1163 and the House press 1164. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 437, 124 Members registered, for 112, against none. The motion was accepted. So at this point, I'm going to interrupt printing 1163 and open printing 1164. This is about
