ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the second day of the second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order for our participation to be recorded, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Bačíková Jana - health reasons, Blažek Pavel - work grounds, Fiala Radim - health reasons, Fischerová Romana - health reasons, Helebrant Tomáš - family reasons, Kasal David - health reasons, Pokorná Jermanová Jaroslava - health reasons, Smetana Karel - health reasons, Štolpa David - family reasons, Tureček Karel - health reasons, Válková Helena - personal reasons, voborský Milada - health reasons, Wenzl Milan - health reasons, Zlínský Vladimír - health reasons. They apologize from the members of the government: Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, Minister Dostálová, Minister Kulhánek, Minister Maláčová, Minister Toman and Mr Vojtěch Adam. With Mr Vojtěch these are working reasons, with Mr Toman also working reasons, with Mrs Maláčová health reasons, with Mr Kulhánek health reasons, with Mrs Dostálová health reasons, with the Prime Minister working reasons. Today's meeting was scheduled to begin with paragraph 18, which is a motion for confirmation by committee chairmen. However, I'm registering here the application of the chairman of the SPD, Tomio Okamura, to change the agenda of the meeting. However, the Minister of Health, Adam Vojtěch, has also asked me to speak, which is thus disturbing the apology from today's meeting. I just want to ask Mr Okamura if he would prefer the Minister, because it is probably one thing? [[Member Okamura: I do not prefer.]] You don't prefer the first Mr Okamura. I will ask all Members to keep their voice down so that Mr Okamura can speak calmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I propose an extraordinary point on today's agenda for the House of Deputies' meeting called Abolition of Emergency Situation. The SPD movement does not support the announcement of an emergency, because the government has abused it in the past for large-scale measures and lockdowns that, in our view, do not lead to the goal. We disagree with the ban on Christmas markets. Measures may be implemented without emergency conditions under the Public Health Protection Act and the Crisis Act. It is necessary to return the possibility of free testing and, above all, to concentrate efforts to protect risk groups. In particular, risk groups should be allowed to test for antibodies. Working with this group must be done by practical physicians, who need to be given the opportunity to quickly inject available covid medications. When someone is negative for testing, they should be at the same level as the vaccine. We reject the segregation of non-vaccines and say no to discrimination against healthy non-vaccines. The government is thus grossly violating citizens' rights. Getting vaccinated is supposed to be the free choice of every citizen. ANO's government in demise is adopting other non-systemic anti-epidemic measures. There is no reason to stop testing and to stop using antigenic tests. On the contrary, the recognition of antibodies and negative tests as evidence of infectivity is needed. I hereby propose that I include the proposed item entitled Cancellation of the emergency today as the second point after paragraph 18, which is the proposal to confirm the Chairs of the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies. In the event that the proposal fails, I propose to include this item as the last item in the House's agenda for today's meeting. In case it doesn't even work, we'll be collecting 40 signatures for an emergency meeting. As I said, we need 40 signatures for an emergency meeting, we're at SPD 20. Therefore, in such a case, the management of our parliamentary club will again address the presidents of the other political parties here in the House and ask them to join us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will also ask if your proposal has the support of your membership club, because even according to the legislation, at least 20 Members are required to claim the cancellation of the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u4	Yes, it's a proposal from our MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u5	Thank you very much. I will just verify: do you propose this as the second point of today's negotiations, alternatively as the last point of today's negotiations?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u6	As I have said, I propose to include the proposed item entitled Cancellation of the emergency as the second point after paragraph 18, which is a proposal to confirm the chairmen of the Chamber of Deputies Committees. In the event that the proposal fails, I propose to include this item as the last item in the House's agenda for today's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u7	Yes, thank you, we got along just fine. The Minister of Health, Vojtěch, was the next one to claim priority rights. Minister, you have the floor. I add that today Mr. Julius Špičák is still apologizing between 9 and 12 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment not only on President Okamura's speech, but, of course, on the current epidemiological situation and the reasons which led us as a government to declare an emergency in the territory of the Czech Republic. Basically, the data they present every day, so I think everyone knows very well. The epidemiological situation in the Czech Republic continuously develops in principle in all indicators that we follow. Not only the absolute number of newly diagnosed cases - which is not the biggest problem - but it is the intervention of risk groups, it is the relative positivity of the tests, which is now around 40-45 percent, which means a very high viral load in the population. It is, of course, the number of hospitalizations that are growing continuously, although, fortunately, thanks to vaccinations, especially in intensive care units, the increase is not so significant, but unfortunately we are still observing increases in this area. We discussed the situation very carefully with the commanders of individual regions. This applies especially to the regions of Moravia at the moment, but the situation is very dynamic and today the South Bohemian Region has very heavily burdened hospitals. For example, in České Budějovice there are the most patients with covido hospitalized from all over the Czech Republic. It is clear that the epidemic is spreading very massively thanks to the delta variant, which still persists in the territory of the Czech Republic. We feel that if we do not really take strong measures at this point, the situation by Christmas could be very critical within hospitals in the Czech Republic. We already have to transport patients from overloaded hospitals, especially from the South Moravian Region to Prague. I think you've all seen yesterday's footage of ambulances and helicopters of the Army of the Czech Republic transporting patients to Prague hospitals, and it will very likely be necessary to continue these transports. [[9.10 hours]] Indeed, the Czech Republic is one of the countries most affected. It is not only the case of the Czech Republic, you can see that the situation is getting worse in Germany, Austria, Slovakia, in principle throughout Europe, it is not an exception, and other states are progressing in a very similar way. In fact, we make a significant copy of the German model 2G, which means people who are vaccinated and have had a disease, have access to services, to the gas station, to mass events. And so do these countries to reduce mass action, to limit contacts. After all, the German Robert Koch Institute warned ten days ago that the disease would actually spread, and without restrictions on contacts, social contacts - and the rule still applies: There is no contact, there is no transmission - it is not possible to cope with the situation. We have several legal standards in the Czech Republic at the moment, which may be used by the government. You know that there is - and here President Okamura mentioned it - a law on public health protection, there is a so-called pandemic law, and then there is a crisis law that we have now decided to take advantage of. Why an emergency? This is particularly due to the fact that we have quite a rich case-law of the courts here. We're not exactly at that stage of the tabula race anymore, which means we wouldn't actually have any legal guidance on how to proceed. And it is clear from the caselaws of the courts, especially the Supreme Administrative Court, that if we want to interfere more significantly with contacts between people, if we want to limit operations that, from our point of view and from the economic point of view, are at risk, it is not possible to do this in any other way than in an emergency situation. This is the legal situation, and we really cannot afford to take measures here, for example, under the pandemic law, which will then be disrupted by the courts. So that's why at the moment we've decided to declare an emergency so that we can limit the operation of nightclubs, nightclubs and the like, a discotheque where we really consider it very risky, a ban on alcohol consumption in the public, severe restrictions on mass events, proms and so on - I don't want to calculate everything here, you certainly know the measures very well. But the intervention really is so forceful that without an emergency, such measures cannot be taken. The Public Health Act - we know that it is no longer usable in this regard, because the courts have made it clear that it can only be used in the outbreak. This means, if there is any outbreak within any school or restaurant facility or the like, it is possible to take anti-epidemic measures under the Public Health Act, but not in the territory of the whole Czech Republic. So here, although we certainly don't do it with love and we'd like to declare an emergency at all costs, there's nothing legally left. The measures are undoubtedly forceful, they touch a whole range of areas, people's lives, entrepreneurs, and I regret, of course, that we have to do this, but we have to realise that if we do nothing, there is a real overload of hospitals, congestion of intensive care units, there will be no capacity for other patients. Some hospitals already have to limit elective care, or stop operations altogether, and this is a situation where I really see no alternative but to take such forceful measures. It is clear that this is significantly - and here I agree with the future government, which had a press conference on this subject - on everyone's individual responsibility. We're taking precautions, but if people aren't responsible, they won't follow those measures, and of course, which is the basis of everything, they won't be vaccinated, so the situation will be very serious. The measures that we have put in place in recent weeks are clearly aimed at motivation for vaccination. It is true that the numbers of vaccines have increased quite significantly over time against the previous period, which is good news, but we are still not where we need to be. The European ECDC talks about the fact that countries with no population inoculation of more than 80 per cent, in which case the risk of spreading the disease is still very significant. In the Czech Republic today we are over 60 percent of the vaccinated population as a whole, in the adult population we are over 70 percent, 72-73%. That's still not enough to protect our hospitals. Indeed, we are between 60 and 80 percent of the vaccinated population in those countries. Even according to the ECDC, these countries are to take antiepidemic measures, as the risk of spreading the disease, the risk of increasing hospitalization cases is very significant. It is often said that even the vaccinated person may become infected, so why do we want to discriminate here in unscathed quotation marks? Yes, the vaccine can get infected, but the probability that it ends up in the hospital, that it ends up on the ventilator, that it ends up on ECMO is significantly lower. It is still true that in intensive care units 70, 75 percent of people who are not vaccinated are hospitalized. I think that the doctors who are here and are from those hospitals know so well what the patient structure is, what the patients are in and what the condition is, and that, of course, it is often not even elderly patients, because they are very heavily inoculated, today of 85, 88 percent, but that there are often people, 40s, 30s, somewhere even people, who are over twenty years old, who are connected to a ventilator, are in very difficult condition and the progression of the disease is very significant, especially due to the delta variant. And that's really no fun anymore, and those doctors who take care of those patients clearly confirm that the states of these younger years are really very serious and that they have not seen this in practice in previous waves. So, for this reason, we believe that it is absolutely necessary to motivate maximum vaccination, to limit contacts at this time, to limit places where a large number of people meet without drapes, where the O-N regime is very difficult to control, and that is why we have taken measures that the government has approved. I firmly believe that these measures will be effective and that we will manage to stabilise the situation at least in order to avoid a further increase in the number of cases and a further increase in the number of hospital hospital hospitalizations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u9	Thank you, Minister. I want to ask if anyone else is applying to the modifications to the approved agenda? It's not like that. We have one motion to change the meeting, and that is the inclusion of a new item canceling the emergency. We will first vote on inclusion, then, as a result, we will vote on whether we will include it as a second item or as the last item of the meeting. So if there's no other proposal, I'm taking the vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? 177 Members were voted in, 22 voted in favour. The motion was denied. The President of the ODS Club shall declare with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to question the vote, it does not work for me, I cannot register with my identification card, so I would ask my colleagues for help so that I can vote properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-26-ps2021-002-02-000-000.u11	Mr President, are you questioning the vote? [[Member of Stanjura: Yes.]] Great. So I'm gonna check you all out first. I'm gonna have to make it to the co-workers in the lobby. We will vote on the objection. I'm still checking the votes. [[9.20 hours]] So I consider the previous vote confusing because the device didn't work. We will not question the vote, I call it misguided. We will be voting again on Mr Tomio Okamura's proposal to include a point in today's meeting. I've begun. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? 178 Members voted in favour of 20, against 53. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will not vote on the inclusion of this point as a second point or as a last point and we can continue according to the programme that we have approved. Let's continue with the point.
