ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-010-006.u1	6. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Prague on 10 July 1990 and amended by exchange of notes made in Prague on 23 August 1991 and 24 October 1991, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes /house printing 44/ - first reading Once again, I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-010-006.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me again to present a proposal for the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to ratify an agreement terminating the existing investment agreement with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. This government proposal has already been discussed by the Chamber of Deputies in its eighth term as House Press No. 1247. However, the previous Chamber of Deputies failed to discuss it in its eighth term, so it is now being presented again. After the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, agreements on the protection and promotion of investments concluded between EU Member States became incompatible with EU law. An important incentive, which substantially accelerated the process of terminating these so-called intra-EU investment agreements, was to issue a decision by the EU Court of Justice in Achme. The EU Court of Justice concluded in this Decision that the arbitration clauses contained in these investment agreements are contrary to Union law. To fully respect Achme's decisions, both the Czech Republic and Great Britain have committed themselves to signing the Declaration on the Legal Impacts of the Achmea Decision, and so on. In the spring of this year, the Czech Republic was able to negotiate with the British Party the termination of the existing investment agreement, including the exclusion of the use of the withdrawal period, which guarantees protection for investors for another 15 years after the expiry of the investment agreement. The termination agreement is in line with the constitutional order and other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, with the obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and with the generally recognised principles of international law. The conclusion and implementation of the termination agreement will not have an impact on the state budget. On the contrary, in the absence of ratification by the Czech Republic of the termination agreement, the Czech Republic will still be exposed to any claims made by foreign investors, even if the bilateral agreement in question is contrary to EU law. Such claims, if any, have the potential to burden the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-010-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Bžoch, should now take the floor. But I have information that there's been an agreement to exchange the newsletter. However, since we are at first reading, we must vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. The newly proposed rapporteur is Mr Jiří Strýček. I ask you, colleagues, to vote for this change. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand to change the rapporteur. Who's against it? In the vote number 23, 183 Members were voted in favour, 166 voted in favour, and no one opposed it. We therefore voted to amend the rapporteur. I ask Mr. Strýček to introduce us to his report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-010-006.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would just briefly recapitulate what has already been said here by the Minister regarding the termination of the agreement with the United Kingdom Government on the promotion and protection of investment from 10 July 1990. The repeated termination of the Agreement with the Government of the United Kingdom on the promotion and protection of investment from 1990 is a response to the situation in which, following the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, agreements on the protection and promotion of investments concluded essentially bilaterally between the Member States of the European Union became incompatible with European Union law. Therefore, even after the recent UK withdrawal from the European Union, it is necessary to terminate the existing investment agreement. In doing so, it is necessary to rule out the use of the so-called withdrawal period, which eliminates the risk of any international arbitration which an investor of one Contracting Party could launch against the other for a further period of 15 years. The Czech Republic has submitted a proposal to the United Kingdom to terminate the bilateral investment agreement without success several times in 2009, 2016 and 2018 and only in March 2021 has it been possible to agree with the UK to terminate the agreement, through the exchange of diplomatic notes. The United Kingdom notation of 4 May 2021 and the subsequent Responsible Note of the Czech Republic of 12 May 2021 have established an agreement to terminate the existing investment agreement, including the exclusion of the application of the so-called withdrawal period. Thank you for your attention and I recommend ordering the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-010-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, for your words. I am opening a general debate. No one is reporting to the general debate. I'm asking if there's anybody doing that? This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not. There are no proposals to vote. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the proposal to be submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the foreign committee. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Anyone against it? Voting number 24, 183 Members voted in favour of 167, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Since there were no proposals in the general debate to shorten or extend the deadline, we can end the discussion of item 6. The next item is:
