ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. Whoever votes with the spare card, let them come and tell me. Thank you. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 98th meeting on 1 April of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. [[Member Feri comes to the President and says outside the microphone: Hello, with priority rights, please. Thank you.]] So I have a whole series of applications again. But I'd like to ask a colleague and colleagues to take your seats. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R. The 98th meeting has already started, and I would like to begin by welcoming the new Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger, and wish him the best of luck and success in his new position. [[Applause, whistling.]] Don't worry about it. [[The President's response to the whistling in the hall.]] And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Jana Krutáková and Mr Petr Dolínek. I'm asking if anyone else has a suggestion? [[Gong.]] I don't see anyone. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. [[Noise and restlessness persist in the Chamber, some Members discuss it in a noose.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 1, I note that we have appointed the verifiers to the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, Ms Jana Krutáková and Mr Petr Dolínek. 115 of the 117 in attendance voted in favour. From today they apologize from Members: Ivan Adamec, working reasons, Jana Černochová, working reasons, Miroslav Grebeníček, health reasons, Lenka Kozlová, health reasons. Members of the government apologize: Jan Hamáček, health reasons, Jana Maláčová, working reasons, and Lubomír Metnar, working reasons. We will now proceed to the proposal for the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as stated on the invitation, and I would first like to introduce you - i.e. when it is quiet in the hall. [[The bell.]] First, the design of the Gremium. First, the Grémium proposes point 54, press 793, on notaries and their activities, notary order, from the block of second reading to include point 11, House printing 894, on addictive substances. Points in third readings discuss in order: paragraph 338, print 780, on regional development support, then point 341, print 374, on road traffic, and paragraph 344, print 545, the Civil Code. Furthermore, we would follow the proposal of the programme, as you have before you: paragraph 314, House press 1185, on adjustments to the provision - with card replacement number 24, the vote is made by Mr Mališ - it is printing 1185, which is proposed to be a solid inclusion on Wednesday 14 April as the first point at 14.30. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes paragraphs 8 and 9, prints 1008 and 1009, building law and related, second reading, paragraph 14, print 290, on aid in material distress, second reading, print 313, House print 1177, on adjustments to the provision of the infirmary, first reading, § 90 para. 2, and paragraph 349, press 1170, on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic, third reading - we note that they have been discussed at extraordinary meetings and will therefore no longer be part of the approved programme. [[correct point]] There's no need to vote on it. The Grémium also suggested that on Thursday 15 April - now please pay attention - 15 minutes after the end of point 528, the reply to the written interpelation, continue the suspended 93rd meetings, which are included in two points at the moment, namely the National Recovery Plan and Operational Programmes and the drawing of money from European Union funds for the period 2021 to 2027. The 98th meeting would then continue at 14.30 hours, namely paragraph 529, oral inhalation. That is all from my side and from Gremia's side, and now there is room for proposals to be made to change the agenda of the meeting. At this point, I am registering with the priority right of the Vice-President of the TOP 09 Dominik Feri club on the agenda, then President Chvojka, from the position reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow Members, Minister, welcome to the Chamber of Deputies... which will certainly be better said...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u3	Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Although it may seem that too much has not changed in the measures, this is not the case because we have transferred to the regime of the law, which we have all joined together here, either from the coalition or from the opposition, have written. We're in the regime - from the opposition with the exception of the SPD so... [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] ... we're in the regime of the so-called pandemic law. This is linked not only to the measure, but also to the Institute of Damage Compensation, which is specifically regulated in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, seriously, the meeting has already begun. Please, if you're discussing, go to the lobby. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u6	This is not a trivial matter, because according to the Minister of Finance of the meeting we participated in, it is approximately CZK 50 billion per month, and I think it should be clear how the government is prepared for it, how the Ministry of Finance is prepared for it, if the forms for seeking such compensation are already administered, and we would like to be informed about this. That is one thing that concerns the pandemic law. Another falls within the gesture of the new Minister of Health and concerns the issue of measures. Surely you have noticed in the media restrictions of meeting, first discussed at 20 and 10, then 2 and 2, with a specific arrangement for sports. We believe that this is a legally very complex matter which is not entirely clear. I think it's obvious from the non-convention of constitutional lawyers, for example, and even administrative lawyers, when it's not clear whether under the pandemic law we can limit the fact that you'll meet with your family members, whether it's a private event where there's an accumulation of persons or not. On this we would very much like to know the Minister's legal opinion and the specific designation of lawyers with whom he has consulted and who have come to what opinion, and, of course, also a certain idea of what will happen, if any submission to the Supreme Administrative Court comes to mind and that he is very likely to attack it, and if a decision is made against the state, to the detriment of the government, so if he is aware of all the conventions involved, such as damages obligations under such measures. So this concerns the question of meeting. [[14.10 hours]] And the last thing that concerns the pandemic law and measures in general is a plan to relax. For a long time, we have been appealing to the government to present a clear plan of when it will unfold. We do not mean data, we are in our proposal, just as it was done in Germany, not working with specific data, but with some indicative indicators and indicators, and in this plan, for example, we have always mentioned this date first. The minister said, "Forget it! Okay, forgetting about the PES system won't be so hard, but we'd like to know what the government's coming up with next, what's the timetable for relaxing or better getting back to normal, and what we're supposed to expect. So my proposal is for us to discuss tomorrow at 6:30 p.m. an item called Government Information on the pandemic Law. This has been informed by the political grémium and the President of the ANO Faltýnek parliamentary club informed me that it is possible to secure the presence of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Health and that this is how he supports it. Therefore, I believe that this will be an informative point. This is not an interpelation, but we want to know, and not just us, but also the public, how it will loosen up, how it can replace damage or ask for damages, how it is with the meeting and what the Minister's legal opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. So there is a proposal for a new point. Once again, I ask you to calm down so your colleagues don't have to shout at you. President Chvojka is now with priority rights, then President Fiala with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Afternoon, colleagues, something tells me that this meeting, which has just begun, will be very interesting, but it is actually every meeting. I have one proposal, which unfortunately was not successful at the Gremium, so I will try to make it successful here at the meeting of the House's plenary. I've been trying to make a point number 4 in the block of second reading, that is, after the point of the Ministry of Health - invasive non-originating species, after the point of the Ministry of Health on addictive substances and after the third point, which is the notary order, the amendment to the Employment Act, aka all known under the name cursarbeit, is the printing number 1025. According to my information, a political agreement has finally been made on what this press should look like in the finals, how this press should be voted on at third reading in the finals. So we have to reread the second reading after... before we send it to the final reading of the third. So, please, once again, to include the amendment to the Employment Act in that block of the second reading, press 1025 as item 4, that is, after the amendment to the notary order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. President Fiala, then Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u10	Thank you. Dear colleagues, my dear government, before I begin, I will ask you, Prime Minister of the House, I want to propose a point for tomorrow afternoon, and I want to ask if we have any fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u11	No, we will only approve the programme as a whole, we have nothing yet. [[That's good.]] There's one suggestion as the first point of the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u12	Okay, so I also make a proposal for tomorrow afternoon, it's item 15, House press 652, it's the completion of a second reading of a proposal to amend the law on aid in material distress, the aim of which is to end the abuse of social benefits and to set clear rules in this area. We've already started the second reading twice, we haven't finished it twice, and we'd like to finish it as soon as possible. So I propose Wednesday, tomorrow, Wednesday as the first point at 14.30, because according to your statement, they are not yet included there - as the second point at tomorrow afternoon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. There's a compromise proposal, there's a press under the regime of § 90 - 1185 I suspect. I'll read an apology. Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes today for health reasons. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. With the replacement card number 27, Mr. Kolářík votes, is that correct? Yes. The information came to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be brief, I will only allow myself to propose the inclusion or pre-selection of one of the first readings, this is print number 638, already by number it is quite a historical text, which lies here for a year and a half, and that is also point 55, which is also the law on conflict of interest, which has a number 956, which we have put in a bit of a pre-schedule, and I would like to discuss the press 638 at first reading, and I am just saying that I will read into the press 956 the amendments that are part of the press 638, with the fact that, at first reading after discussing the press 638, I would propose its interruption until the completion of the law on conflict of interest in the press 956, in order to be able at all by the end of the election period of conflict of interest, which was part of the political programmes of all nine political parties in this House, to complete so that we have a certain result that the citizens expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. That is to say, to include point 206 per point 55, if discussed, that is possible. President Farsky with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, paradoxically, to support the solid inclusion of the Government's bill, namely the law under House press 1073, which I think is paragraph 101 of this meeting, for Tuesday next week as the first item. Let me introduce you to the reason. You may recall that this law was sent here by the government sometime last fall. She even sent him with a statement that we should accept him in a state of legislative emergency, because the law really needs to be discussed as quickly as possible. The reasons for a quick discussion are, I'd say, two. One of them is the need. We have 400,000 people trapped in debt, and each crisis will be reflected in this area during the two-year slide, and there will certainly be a lot of people in this situation where they will not be able to repay any debts, and these people today have no chance. This solution to the situation of these 400,000 people, through which more than a million people are affected, is extremely important to all of us, necessary and advantageous for this society socially, educatedly and economically, because these 400,000 people are in a situation where they know that even if they try to pay off their debts in any way, so that their debts are bouncing because of various interest rates, fees and other costs of this kind, they jump faster than they are able to pay back monthly, so they will not get to repay the debt even after tens of years, which leads to the fact that, of course, they are moving into the grey economy, and not only do they not pay taxes, but often also receive different benefits. If we get these people out of this realm into a functioning economy, we'll all make an incredible profit. The second reason why it is important to discuss this law is that we are part of the European Union and a directive is adopted, which we have to incorporate into our legal order by July of this year. The Justice Department is aware of this -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u17	I'm sorry to interrupt, Mr. Colleague, but I'm really asking you to calm down! This noise level is unusually high, I need to hear what's being proposed!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u18	And the Justice Department is aware of this need, so it also proposed this law, proposed it in a legislative emergency. When we did not approve this legislative emergency in the Chamber of Deputies with the fact that it could not be linked to the pandemic situation, there were promises that we would not approve it in a legislative emergency, but we would discuss it as quickly as possible. Since then, the law hasn't even gotten into negotiations at first reading. This law directly affects the lives of millions of people in the Czech Republic and the debt slaves they are today can make decent taxpayers. Let's give them the chance. Please arrange this government bill for next Tuesday as the first item of discussion. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with priority rights, the chairman of the club YES, Mr Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, good afternoon, colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues from Gremia, where we agreed on how to put together this week and find some compromise in relation to third readings. However, one thing we have not agreed on is the question of elections. We've got the election block, paragraphs 398 and 404 on the agenda, we don't have them fixed. I would therefore like to propose, on behalf of our club, that we place this block of elections, paragraphs 398 and 404, today firmly at 18.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u21	Thank you. That's all I'm looking at so far from priority rights. I'll ask Mrs Langšádlová, who is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u22	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am sorry that the Prime Minister is not here at the moment because I have some disturbing information for him - disturbing information that his ministers are reporting completely contradictory information on how the security interests of the state are defended and fulfilled in the area of procurement documents for the nuclear tender in Dukovany. For this reason - and I will, of course, introduce you to this, because you should also know what is going on in such a serious question - I will propose the exclusion of the press 966 - this is a low-carbon energy law - and the inclusion of the Government's information on the security interests of the state in building a new nuclear bloc. I'm sure you all remember the farce we had with the safety questionnaire. Yes, there was supposed to be a safety questionnaire that the security group didn't see. We are receiving information today that some part of this security questionnaire will be processed by a security group, but it has been removed from the Security Council of the State. The intention was to pass the tender documents on to the tender candidates, even though, as I repeatedly stress here, the security interests of the state approved by the government were not reflected in the tender documents. I have some evidence for that. This is how I turned to the Minister of Industry and Trade to ask how the security interests of the state were projected, and he in his document, in his reply, assures that these security interests of the state were reflected in the procurement documents, but in this hand I also hold the reply of the Minister of the Interior, and I would like to quote from this reply: "Some of the state's demands have been successfully settled, but the key ones have not. " In the same letter, the Interior Minister tells me: "Since these interests have not been adequately taken into account, there is still a fundamental reminder. " This is a fundamental reminder of the security group, which has been established for this purpose under the Ministry of the Interior, where representatives of both the security community and intelligence services are. It still takes a fundamental reminder pointing out the high risk that the entire project will end in failure to comply with the conditions of Section 29a, the Public Procurement Act, i.e. exemptions from procurement procedures due to concern about the threat to the fundamental security interests of the State. Ladies and gentlemen, I am talking here about the fundamental security interests of the state that have not been reflected in the procurement documents, and I would like to warn the absent Minister Havlíček that if, without these basic security interests of the state being reflected in the procurement documents, such an incomplete, thus incomplete, procurement documents were passed on to anyone, to whomever he passed on, he himself committed a very serious error. In this letter, written by the Minister of the Interior, it is quite clear that this group does not have enough information on the current state of the procurement documents to carry out its tasks. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat this once more and warn you about it. It is absolutely essential for the government to inform us about how the security interests of the State will be incorporated into the procurement documents. I warn against handing over these procurement documents to anyone until the security interests of the state approved by the government are reflected. Therefore, once again, I propose the inclusion of the Information of the Government on completion, ensuring the security interests of the state in the construction of the Dukovany nuclear block, at 15. 4th at 12:30. We're really here with a complete farce where we're gambling with our security, when the government's approved security interests are not reflected in the procurement documents. It is documented here by a letter from the Minister of the Interior, and this situation is really extremely serious. You're gambling with the fact that the future of this entire energy segment will completely disintegrate here, that even those companies that could and should participate - Czech companies - on this project and that the whole process will actually be called into question. I find it extremely dangerous. I would like to stress that we have also asked, as representatives of the five opposition democratic parties, for an early call by the Government Committee for the completion of the core. We sent the letter already 26. 3. Mr. Prime Minister, until today it has not been responded to. That is why I strongly ask that this point be included and that we be informed of the Government's progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u23	Madam, don't leave. You suggested it on Thursday 15. The 4th and the Presidents of all the MPs have agreed that the 93rd meeting, the National Recovery Plan, will be there. So maybe I could ask you for some... Friday? Mike, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u24	I am so sorry, Mr. Chairman. I propose Friday 16. 4 o'clock at 11 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u25	Very good, thank you. With priority rights, President Jurečka on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u26	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. I would like to put two points on the agenda for this meeting. The first point concerns the negotiation of what has already been partially discussed by the House, namely the establishment of an environmental accident committee on the Bečva river. It is a House document, if I am not mistaken, 7332 and I ask for its inclusion on Friday as the first point, or on Wednesday as the first point of the afternoon negotiations. I'm sorry, so it's on the proposal under point 504, so I'm just going to ask for a priori of this point to be discussed in these two alternative proposals. Furthermore, please note that today, as the first item in this meeting, we should include the speech of the Minister of Health - possibly the information to supplement the Prime Minister, namely the current situation and vaccination strategy and the steps in the area of the registration of Sputnik V vaccine. [[14.30 hours]] At the same time, the Minister could also shed light on the steps relating to the current measures, which have been confusingly communicated since Friday, not only in terms of sports options, but also in terms of limiting the movement of persons. So these are the two points that I would like to propose, or I would suggest one, and I'm giving one in two variants a proposal to put these points forward so that we can discuss them. There's a vote left with Bečva. We can have that point in 20 minutes, maybe even faster, done. So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u27	Can I just be more specific? Current vaccination situation? Is that what we'd call the point? Thank you. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I come up with a simple proposal. It applies to point 342, it is low-carbon energy. I have two suggestions. First, to exclude this item from the agenda of the meeting, second, to be included at the end of the third reading. It's because she should sit down at the heart of the government committee. Until we know the answers, I think it is not appropriate to discuss this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Mrs Langšádlová has already submitted a motion for expulsion, which is what you are joining. We can vote at the end of the third reading. Mr Lukáš Černohorský is next on the agenda, followed by Mr Faltýnek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u30	Thank you for the floor. I have several suggestions. The first is point 346 of the proposal by the House press 911 to include 545 as the House press according to the proposal from the Gremium. If I recorded correctly here, the grémium suggested we move this point, I suggest we insert it or move it for that. This is a bill that changes the remuneration of foster parents and changes other things that people from practice are calling for. The second proposal concerns paragraph 19, House printing 944 of the proposal, and that is to include it as item 13 of the proposal. It should be behind the House Press 603, which is compensation for sterilization, with this proposal transforming the institutions of care for minors into the establishment of centres of comprehensive care for children with disabilities. The third proposal concerns points 214 of the proposal, House press 695. I'd like to put that on Wednesday at 14.30 as the first point. This is a modification of the paternity and extension of the circle of persons in the infirmary, for which the coexistence of caregivers and caregivers in the household is not required. The fourth proposal concerns the draft law on the protection of notifiers. These are the points of proposals 113, 114 and 115, the Parliament's press is 1150, 955 and 1151. I would like to propose to include all these three points in paragraph 62, which should be the House's press of 1106. This is a law to ensure the protection of potential notifiers. The point is that the directive which requires the Member States of the European Union to adopt a legal standard for the protection of notifiers should apply shortly, by 17 December 2021 at the latest. I think it is time to open this point at first reading as soon as possible, so that we can still discuss this bill during this parliamentary term. I would also like, Mr President, to ask: President Faltýnek's proposal on the elections, if it could then be voted after the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u31	I'll grant the proposal. Plus, Prime Minister Faltýnek is reporting, I suppose, on top of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u32	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I would like to correct my proposal, which I made on the election date, and the new text reads: points 399 to 404, because point 398 is changes in the bodies of the House, which are not proposed. So just these points. And a brief response to Marian Jurečka's proposal regarding not Bečva, but to the Minister of Health. We were discussing the basically identical or very similar proposal by Mr Feri on the Gremium today. At my club, I discussed it with the Minister of Health and Minister Schillerová, because the proposal concerned both medical matters in relation to covid, vaccination and so on, but at the same time the payment of the costume compensation. And both of them have confirmed to me that they are prepared to support Mr. Feri's proposal that this Wednesday, at 6:30 p.m., be fixed, and there we are not limited in time, because that is not the law. So I was just surprised that my colleague Jurečka is proposing the same thing de facto, except for another term. That's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar is next in the debate, and before the Member arrives, I would like to call on Mr Volný and Mr Bojek traditionally to put their mouths and noses on, because this is a government measure that applies, we have no exception as the Chamber of Deputies. Gentlemen don't seem to want to put on mouth and nose protection, so I'm giving you a warning in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the current problems, not some imaginary Sputniks and the danger of Dukovany. I propose to include a new item in the programme under the title Information Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček to the situation in the steel industry. I don't know if you missed the information, but the steel industry in Europe is going into a huge problem within the Gupta Steel Group. One of the major races of this conglomerate is the Liberty Hut in Ostrava, the only so far profitable rock that exists in its steel giant. The problems that are currently there will affect the entire Moravian-Silesian region and can affect the entire republic. I don't know if you're aware, so the company got CZK 2 billion from the state as an operating loan. Ostrava's New Hut didn't take a penny out of it, and no one knows where the money ended up. The Minister should answer where these 2 billion Czech taxpayers ended up. I don't know if you know there's a big emission allowance deal going on. Ostrava's New Hut has emission allowances and wants to use those it doesn't use to modernize its business. Yet the pressure of shareholders and the pressure of the owner to end up in Romania, which has sold them, has earned cash and does not currently have it. Such trades require some pressure even within such a gigante as Gupta's businesses are, yet they are trying to force Ostrava's New Hut, in the current state of Liberty Steel, to carry out such operations. It is alarming what is currently happening in this steel giant, and it can have far-reaching consequences for the entire industry in the Czech Republic. I just want to point out that The Moravian-Silesian Region is quite severely affected by the announced future, or rather by the OKD's future and black coal mining in this area, which is of 70 percent needed to ensure heat in the Moravian-Silesian Region. It is also a problem that remains hanging in the air and which is not dealt with in the long term. For those who don't know, black coal makes coke. Coke is not mined, coke has to be produced, and it is used for smooth operation of smelting, iron melting and metal refinement. It is a big problem that is currently emerging and can affect our entire Moravian-Silesian region. Therefore, I would very much like the Minister and the Ministry to prepare answers to these questions that I have asked here and which I consider very important for the House to deal with them, because the European Commission, which has taken part in the reorganisation and sale of the part of the company after the departure of Mittal Steel under its wing, can immediately force the current owner of Gupta to take quick steps that can irreversibly harm the Czech Republic and can irreversibly harm the economic interests of the Czech Republic. [[14.40 hours]] I therefore propose to include this point on Tuesday 20 April as the first point of our negotiations so that we can hear the measures that the Ministry of Industry and Trade will have prepared and will know how to proceed. Again there are possibilities, the interests of the state, either to influence the events that are currently happening there, or to enter the steel giant for example, or to seek other solutions that Minister Havlíček had already suggested under the impression of saving jobs. I would like to point that out strongly and clearly here, there is a strike alert at Liberty Steel. There is a threat to a large number of jobs and to plunge the Moravian-Silesian region into a severe industrial crisis. I would therefore like to support the inclusion of this point as the first point on Tuesday, 20 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u35	Thank you. Mr Tomáš Martínek is next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind you that the Senate Media Commission recalls the Government's programming statement: we will pay attention to the transformations of the audiovisual sector in order to fulfil cultural, social and social services; we will maintain the current status of public media; we will consistently support their independence. The commission also adopted a resolution asking the Chamber of Deputies to postpone the election of members of the Czech Television Council in order to clarify doubts about the fulfilment of the legal conditions of the proposing organisations. In most countries of the European Union, with two chambers, the House and the Senate decide on the composition of media councils. Our law on Czech Television was being prepared at a time when the Senate had not yet existed, but it is still necessary to respect his views. There are some doubts in the nominations of the candidates for the vote in the Chamber of Deputies. Six of them do not have the statutory accounts required in the Commercial Register. Most nominating associations have only a few members and are developing a closely defined local activity, although the Czech Television Act requires nominations representing significant regional, political, socio-cultural views. On the contrary, candidates from national professional, academic, journalistic, film associations and universities, including Charles University, the Czech Tourist Club, the Academy of Sciences, the National Theatre, the Czech Children's and Youth Councils, which bring together hundreds of thousands of members and supporters, failed. They could be sued by new findings. For candidates, at least one may get into conflict of interest, two are on the list of employees of StB in the regime of confidante. It is important to stress that disregarding the law when choosing candidates for the Czech Television Council reduces both the credibility and legitimacy of the election and the Board's body itself. A member of the Council shall not hold any office in political parties, political movements or civil associations, nor shall he appear or operate in their behalf in the performance of his duties in the Council. The lack of professionalism and procedural misconduct is becoming more and more common in the proceedings of the ČT Council itself, which acts more and more frequently with the exclusion of the public, outside the legally defined exceptions, but also with the exclusion of part of the Czech Television Council itself. These facts lead not only to increasingly frequent criminal reports, but also reduce the reputation of the Czech Republic, which, due to suspicion of lawlessness and the politicisation of the Czech Television's supervisory body, has been faced with criticisms of respected international institutions, for example, the European Broadcasting Union of the EBU, whose statements have been signed by the CEO of ORF, ZDF, RAI and other public media, the Association of Public Media PMA, whose statements have been signed by the Director-General of the BBC, the President of France Télévisions, the Swedish SVT, the Australian ABC and other large public media, the International Press Institute of IPI, the European Press Freedom and Media Centre ECPMF, the European Federation of Journalists EFJ and other organisations and associations that have addressed the letters to Members. We have enough time to choose the members of the board, and the current term of office of the current members is not until the end of May. That is why today I propose the exclusion of the Czech Council's election point, paragraph 403, so that all doubts can be discussed first in the presence of the Senate guests and the legislative department on the Election Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u37	Thank you. If there is no objection, then we might have voted that elimination before the proposal for a firm inclusion. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u38	honourable Members, I propose to include the House Press 956, an amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interests by fellow Members Petr Sadovský, Zuzana Ožanová, Michal Ratiborský, Taťána Malá, Jiří Mašek, Věra Kovářová, Marek Výborný, Radek Rozvoral, Jan Chvojka and Leo Luzar on a tight day - Wednesday 14. On the 4th afternoon, and if further proposals are approved for fixed points, as well as the last one in that block of fixed points tomorrow afternoon. It is a matter that has been here for a long time and responds to the Constitutional Court's finding that it is necessary to complete the requirements relating to the deposit of property returns, because the Constitutional Court has repealed this regulation and it needs to be supplemented. And it's across the political spectrum. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u39	Just a minute. So I can take that as a matter of fact, after the fixed points, if they are adopted as part of the vote on the proposals that have been made so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u40	And if there aren't any other listed points, then it's first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u41	Let's go first. Yes. Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u42	Thank you for the floor. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am not presenting the proposals I am making on an extremely special basis on behalf of the Civil Democrats' MP, but on behalf of the Temporary Commission for the Evaluation of the Effectiveness of Government Assistance within the COVID, we call this the Covid-Commission, which we set up last autumn. On March 30, we had another meeting of our committee. We have adopted two sets of resolutions - one towards the government and one set of resolutions towards the Chamber of Deputies. On the one hand, I want to introduce you to this resolution and, on the other hand, in the spirit of that resolution, I would like to propose a priority discussion of some points. Our commission asks the Chamber of Deputies to discuss these Houses of Press quickly: First, the House's press number 1039 - the proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Petr Fiala, Marian Jurečka, Jan Farský and others to issue the State Aid Act in emergency measures announced in connection with the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, the so-called compensation law, second and third reading. We can discuss it from tomorrow, so I propose, Mr President, the inclusion of these two points, that is, the second reading of the House press 1039 and the third reading of the House press 1039. At second reading, I suggest that we place it as a second point tomorrow afternoon. There are nine of us on that committee, every MP club has a representative. All nine members of our Commission voted unanimously in favour of this resolution. Secondly, the Covid-Commission asks the Chamber of Deputies for an accelerated press discussion of 1025 - a government proposal on employment, called the Kursarbeit. Once again, all nine members of the Commission voted for it, i.e. representatives of all member clubs. I know that President Chvojka has also read a proposal, but in order to comply with our commission's resolution, I suggest that this House press 1025, second reading, be ranked as the third point tomorrow afternoon, because the first point is proposed from Gremia. [[14.50 hours]] Thirdly, the Covid-Commission asks the Chamber of Deputies for an accelerated discussion of the House's press number 947 - the proposal of Members Zbyněk Stanjura, Petr Fiala, Jana Černochová and others amending Act No. 300/2000 Coll., on the remission of social security premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy paid by certain employers as taxpayers in connection with emergency measures in the outbreak in 2020. It's the reintroduce of the Antivirus C program. I would remind you that twice in recent weeks and months, the House of Deputies has asked the government to either process such a press, such a bill, or to discuss the one who is lying here, and the government completely doesn't give a damn about it. So our committee recommends that we discuss this quickly, so I propose that we discuss House press 947, first reading, tomorrow afternoon as the fourth item of the agenda. And the last proposal that comes from our commission is the House Press 648 - the proposal of Members Zbyněk Stanjura, Petr Fiala, Jana Černochová and others to issue a law amending Act No. 136, on certain adjustments in the field of social security contributions and contributions to national employment and pension insurance policies. It's the forgiveness of minimum social security advances for our businessmen. As with the Antivirus C programme, the Chamber of Deputies has called on the Government twice in recent weeks to either process this item itself or to allow the House of Deputies to discuss it. I suggest we make it a fifth point tomorrow afternoon. The President has the press and the proposals at his disposal. We had it on grémia, so I designed it as points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of tomorrow's afternoon program. I will ask for a separate vote because there was a different majority for each resolution, at least on the third and fourth. It was no longer unanimous there, I must admit it quite openly. In particular, those points concerning Antivirus C and the forgiveness of minimum advances are steps that have proved to be effective last year, which have been bureaucratically undemanding. Basically, it had a claim character for the tradesmen, and it really saved every businessman about CZK 30,000, because there was health insurance. We think it's right, it's appropriate, and it's a thing that could help small and small entrepreneurs and self-employed people. The same applies to three months' remission of employee social insurance payments for firms up to 50 employees. If I round it up and say about it, the first Antivirus C program used about 100,000 small companies. I think it's helping quick, effective, financially interesting again, without bureaucratic obstacles and without unnecessary filling out forms. I firmly believe that those members of the Commission who represent you there and who voted in favour of these resolutions will convince you, and that, as much as possible, we will approve it unanimously or at least majorityly, and that we will be debating and possibly voting on these important points concerning the management of the economic crisis, especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u43	Thank you. Only technically: if the second point passes, the third point doesn't pass, the fourth point automatically becomes the third and so on. Is he okay with that? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Mr. Jiří Valenta on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me propose that you firmly include in the agenda of this meeting the long-term unnegotiated points on the activities and management of Czech Television for the years 2018 and 2019. These are therefore four House prints. You already have to register that the annual reports in question, although regularly appear in the programmes of our meetings, are completely neglected by us. And I'm asking why? Wouldn't their approval have been a routine formality like it was a few years ago? I have tried once to include these reports in the so-called firmness, and in the same way, my colleague, Dolínek, from social democracy, tried to do so at another meeting, but unfortunately, the House majority has always been of the opposite opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in public Czech television has long been unhappy and dissatisfaction is growing. A relatively significant part of society, i.e. self-conspirators, is already refusing to accept opaque management, with a seven-billion-dollar budget, multiplying suspicions of inhospitability and clientelism, with media-based conflicts of interest of some key managers, or with intelligence and publicity information, which often do not have the standards set by the Czech Television Act on the country's most important public media. In my opinion, also the purpose of not providing objective, verified, in its whole balanced and versatile information for free generation of views in news and publicist programmes leading to the purposeful manipulation of public opinion, in favour of some political entities and lobby groups, often also intensively linked to television money channels, cannot be a attribute that Czech television could boast about to the public. I do not need to repeat from this point that the Chamber of Deputies is legally given an important supervisory function towards the Council of Czech Television and also naturally to documents presented to it in the form of activity and management reports each year. The fact that we have not yet discussed these reports, I repeat from 2018 and 2019, which could help to light up the real and objective position of Czech television in the public space, is an indisputable and inexcusable disgrace to us, whether the outcome of the vote or the discussion of these reports would be any kind. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not consider the special-purpose braking of these documents through certain political currents in our House to be a correct and responsible approach, although I certainly understand their fears and concerns rising with the forthcoming elections, but naturally I do not share them. In my opinion, also stupid and unwarranted words about attempts to steal Czech television from the citizens of politics are not really appropriate and serve only to provoke social discord and chaos, which can help camouflage or at least distract attention from the things and problems that really need to be dealt with immediately in the interests of the dealers in connection with the Czech Television. From a moral, but also purely professional point of view, we certainly cannot allow these already bearded annual reports, with all possible legal consequences of their approval or not, to just irresponsiblely spill over to the next parliamentary term. Therefore, also for these reasons, I propose points Annual Report on the Activities of Czech Television for 2018, Parliament's Press 441, Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television from 2018, House Press 562, Annual Report on the Activities of Czech Television for 2019, House Press 796, and Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television for 2019, House Press 960, to place firmly in this order at the Chamber of Deputies meeting this Thursday following replies to the rejected written interpelations, namely at 11 o'clock as the first points, or alternatively next Thursday at 11 o'clock also as the first points in the same order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u45	Thank you. Next is Mr. Petr Třešňák on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u46	Good afternoon. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current pandemic has shown that, in many cases, the whole Czech society has relied on the assistance of doctors and volunteers to fight the pandemic. However, when it comes to welcoming young doctors, so that they are really motivated to remain in the field, to continue to remain in the Czech Republic, nothing positive has happened by the government so far. It is precisely the education of doctors for us, and it should therefore also be one of the priority topics for the government, because the situation of young doctors in Czech health care is not satisfactory in the long term, regardless of salary -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u47	I will interrupt you for a moment and ask again for peace in the hall to understand what the Member is speaking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u48	Whether it concerns the pay conditions themselves or the system of specialisation education, which is very often changed and thus throws young doctors into chaos. In fact, young doctors themselves report that a frequent reason for going abroad or outside the system is a poor and inaccessible system of education. Therefore, above all, we want to make it easier to meet the strain or requirements for individual accredited devices and many others. Anyway, we can then discuss the details on the Health Committee, but for that we need to move forward and open Law 95, which has been here for a long time at first reading. Therefore, I beg you to include paragraph 296, House press 1040, next Wednesday, April 21st, as the first point in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u49	Thank you. Next, Mr Lubomír Volný is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u50	So hello, ladies and gentlemen. In my travel through the Republic, I found that there is a segment of services in this country that is systematically liquidated by this government in the context of the covid crisis, and it is a segment that can produce billions of crowns for a lot of people who are professionally engaged in this segment as their employment, and it almost seems that the creation of the Agrofert transport division, which aims to take over business with tour buses within the Czech Republic. Because these people, who professionally provide transportation for schools, kindergartens, sports clubs, various associations and your holidays, did not receive practically any assistance from the state, received only assistance for the first three months, since then they have been in vain negotiating with both the Ministry of Transport and Mr Babiš for any further support and are, in essence, already beyond their ability to pay rent on cars or buses that they have to pay. And as they're constantly talking about different debt traps and the like, so we're the thousands of people that are related to this business, using the state, we're getting into a situation where they can fall into those debt traps. Of course, these people know that they have a rather strong negotiating card in their hands. Perhaps some of you know that they have already arrived in Prague, that 800 buses have arrived, but they were very decent and only passed through those buses in Prague, and therefore no one knows about it, because they just passed through the buses and did not stop the buses either at the entrance to Prague, or at the intersections in the middle of Prague, or at the exit from Prague. I would like to propose that as the third point of this meeting, we discuss the provision of compensation for tour bus operators, because if we do not discuss this point, I, Lubomír Volný and volný Block, will bring you thousands of buses to Prague and I will stop those buses in Prague. Maybe some of you have noticed that when I say I'm gonna do something, I'm gonna do it. So please, in the name of your own electoral preferences, support today's inclusion of the third point of the meeting, which should be the communication of the Minister of Transport and the communication of the Prime Minister of this country, Mr Babiš, on compensation for tour bus operators. These people have no spending window, they can't provide their services to anyone just like a lot of other entrepreneurs, they can't even open a garage barber shop or a garage pub where people would just let people ride the bus. [[With a smile.]] And there's a really big suspicion that there's a financial force that wants to bleed them out, financial and political, and that wants to take over their business. So we can see if these voters -- they're not Free Bloc voters yet, they're still your voters -- so if you don't support these voters, it's possible or practically certain that they're coming to block Prague, block the Office of the Government, block the House, and, secondly, they'll count it out for you in those elections. This is the first proposal I would like to discuss as a third point in this meeting. Secondly, I propose a statement or a resolution from the House that the House requires the abolition of tests, mandatory tests and mandatory drapes in primary schools. Testing unknown tests without any registration in which carcinogenic substances are used is, in my opinion, a crime committed against the most vulnerable of us. We are committing this crime on our own children - some, because my child will not go to school under these conditions. I can't imagine voluntarily having my child examined by a test from China in which carcinogenic substances are used and for which production and control of which this Republic doesn't have a meter at all. He's got no certificate, no one's trying, no one's checking, nobody knows what's coming to us from China. And you know that I am not opposed to China in general, like the Democratic bloc here or some other members of this House. No, I am in favour of developing completely normal diplomatic and trade relations with China. But I also know what the quality of the production of goods in China is, and I also know that if they can make hundreds of millions of pieces of something and they can save on it, they'll just do it. When I was living in New Zealand, there was a huge scandal because they added to the milk products that are produced as waste in industrial production, and they slaughtered a lot of people, children in China. Yes, those Chinese managers were executed for it, the way they do in China, but who's going to guarantee my child that some test from China was made to remove the carcinogenic substances used in its production? Who is going to stand here and say, "I'm betting on all my property, my entire political career, and if in five years some kid gets sick of leukemia proven to be using these tests, I'm giving up all my status and all my property?" Is there anyone like that around here? Yes, my colleagues nod at me that, of course, it isn't. So it's our duty here in this House to realize that there's been another covideo mafia scam. It happened that the invention of the Czech Doctor of Natural Sciences, who was able to develop a lollipop non-invasive test for 50 crowns, was rejected, and instead of buying this government and starting mass production of these lollipop tests, which are not produced with the presence of any cancer-forming substances, it ordered millions of tests from China. Therefore, as the second item in today's meeting, I propose a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies that we require the Minister of Health and the Government of the Czech Republic to end compulsory testing of pupils in primary schools and wearing drapes. Because now that we have 2,000 or 20,000 tests today, I suspect, I have read on Twitter, only within Prague, and not one is positive, which is a rather striking result in the planned false positive, so I really have no idea why vaccinated teachers and negative children should choke each other in suffocation during the course of teaching. And as far as the Chinese tests are concerned, at least it should be allowed for parents to bring their own tests, and not for the directors to ban them and force them to use tests that have no safety certificate, they come from China, and we don't really know if the carcinogenic substances used in their production have been removed sufficiently. This is what I propose as the second point of today's negotiations. [[15.10 hours]] As the first item in today's meeting, I propose a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies, which we will ask the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to appeal the Minister of Health. In addition to being an uncharacteristic career communist who, before 1989, repeatedly approved the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the armies of the Warsaw Treaty, is also a person who, on the first or second day after joining his office, said that he would not respect the laws of this country, not some decree or regulation, but that he would not respect the laws of this country, and especially that he would not respect the pandemic law that you, colleagues, approved. You passed the pandemic law, and the Minister of Health came into his office, and he spit in your face on the first or second day in office. To all of you who have passed the pandemic law, the Minister of Health has spit in your face the first or second day after his arrival, that he has done nothing else, laughed at you for your political and professional views, laughed at you for how you voted, and made you useless fools in the eyes of the nation, because you can agree here, whatever law you want, but comes to the minister who repeatedly approved the occupation of Czechoslovakia by the armies of the Warsaw Treaty, i.e. the unsavory mud of society, and spit in your face because he tells you that he will not respect your laws. This is what I propose as the first item in this meeting. Thank you for your support, and in this context, I would like to report that we are collecting signatures for an emergency meeting on the abolition of the anti-pandemic law, and I assume that all parties and individual Members who voted against this law will support this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u51	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is next on the agenda. Excuse me, just a little while longer, editing the speaker's desk. [[Destroying the counter is in progress.]] Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u52	I hope you're not cleaning this place up with alcohol to keep me here till the end. Madam Secretary, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to add one new point, it will be quite quick and basically something similar to what Mr Feri said, but I would just like to point out to him that since he is already here at the speaker's desk, he might also be telling the truth. He said all the political parties voted for the pandemic law. Of course, in front of the speaker's desk, the chairman of the SPD MP called and said no, so he said, with the exception of the SPD, so Mr Feri, with the exception of the KSČM. We were at those work meetings with regard to the pandemic law, but the KSČM club did not vote for the pandemic law. You can look it up in the Stenoprotograms. I think it's traceable. So you've made a pandemic law, you've voted for it now, maybe a lot of people who have long-term called for it, cancel the emergency quickly, get everything back to normal, so now they're looking at an appearance, because they figured out that the emergency is actually over on Sunday - and on Monday, basically nothing changed except that they can travel outside the county. It was funny that on April 12, 60 years ago, the first person got into space, and we can finally travel from county to county. We've come a long way in 60 years. So I would take the liberty of taking a new point, and I believe that, as in the past, you have supported our vaccination point, and with this point, we will come again and we will want information from the government, because we have a new Minister of Health here, so we will want to know, but we will want a new point - a new point that concerns, and it is simple, information from the government about disengagement. The point is that the government here in front of the Chamber of Deputies tells the citizens of the Czech Republic how it intends to relax. Many citizens relied on the end of the emergency situation and that the Republic would be introduced into some, say, normal, although a normal person could not expect it to be completely accurate, in full, as it was a year before the outbreak of the pandemic. But they certainly expected more than two people in one group, two people in public, and with one exception, children on the field, one against one in a group of two with a distance of 10 meters. This is basically non-living, and I believe that citizens deserve information about how the new government feels about it or how the government and the new Minister of Health imagined it for the future and what to expect us to do. Spring weather is coming and summer is coming and people want to plan something too. So I propose this point, government information on loosening up, as the first point on Tuesday 20. 4. I know my colleague Luzar suggested the same term. In the event that his point was accepted, of course, as a second point, but given that I see that we've been acting for an hour and a quarter and there are seven backs from the Senate, I don't think we're going to negotiate this and we're going to discuss Senate vomit next week on Tuesday, so, alternatively, as the first point after the Senate's return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u53	Thank you. Next up, there is a Mrs Golasowská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose a new point. I say again because I proposed it at the last meeting and unfortunately it was not supported, and that is the information of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and Minister of Industry, Karel Havlíček's business to the serious situation in Liberty Steel Ostrava, today as a second point or on Friday 16. 4th as the first point. Liberty Steel is threatening to fail the company, with 6,000 people losing their jobs. Colleagues, colleagues, 6,000 people, 6,000 breadwinners, with families behind them, and 24,000 more in follow-up services, so a total of 30,000 people. Yesterday, Minister Havlíček was reported to have acted in tripartite with the trade unionists and I am interested in what he negotiated, and so please include this point and its observations. In relation to the situation in Liberty Steel I also intersected the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, unfortunately they were not at the interpelations, and therefore I do not know their possible steps, which I believe they are doing in this case and in this context. I therefore ask all Members across the political spectrum, in particular 21 Members from the Moravian-Silesian Region, to support and include this item. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u55	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask you to include a point that we have already had here at the last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, but my colleagues have overtaken me a little. Anyway, I'll give you two alternatives to time so the House can assess what's easier. That means I'd like to put back the government's information on vaccination and everything that's related to it tomorrow, fixed Wednesday at 6 p.m., or next Wednesday, I think, April 21st, 5:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u57	Yes, thank you. Next up is Mrs Tereza Hyťhová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u58	Hello, Dear House. I would like to propose a new item on the agenda, namely the Government's information on the opening of all schools, on the ground: firstly, when I proposed this at the last meeting of the House, it was not completed, no resolution was adopted, and basically, not all speakers were able to express themselves. That's one. [[15.20 hours]] Secondly, something has changed since then, and the fact that the first grade of primary schools was opened and also the second-to-last year of kindergarten schools, which means that the second grade of primary schools is still not being addressed, secondary schools are not being addressed and so on and so on and so forth. [[The last one?]] I think, therefore, that if the Ministry of Education insists that children be tested in schools, I do not see why the second degree of primary schools, which is really forgotten, cannot be opened. These children have, I repeat, not been in school for a year, almost a year at school. And I will mention again that we are a country that has children from all over Europe at home the longest. I will also mention the fact that in the UK, for example, children go to school long ago, without any conditions, without masks and without testing. And that's how it is in many other countries. Parents are unhappy with this situation, they want to accompany children to schools so they can test with them, which I understand. We want Tricolore to make school entry unconditional, that means neither testing nor any respirators or drapes. When the baby's tested and it's negative, it's ridiculous to sit in a respirator or a mask all day long. This is really nonsense when it needs enough oxygen to learn and concentrate. So we're suggesting or wanting unconditional entry. But I like that some schools at least got the courage, it's one school from us in Děčín, which decided to go against government regulations and along with the mayor agreed that children can test themselves at home before entering school, and will not be subjected to stress from testing at school, because then the child may be threatened to go home, the whole class will go into quarantine and so on and so on and so on. So I like that at least some schools, teachers and directors have come to their senses. As I say, my parents are dissatisfied, and I think we should discuss the serious situation here, and I'm certainly not satisfied with the fact that the first grade of primary school has gone to school on a rotational basis. I don't understand the expression of the new Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger, who wanted to push tests in schools to be like those in the nosopharynx, and I have read in the media, even anal tests, which I consider absolutely scandalous, because apparently never... [[Resurrection in the Hall]] I don't know what's so funny. [[He turns to the President:]] Can I have some peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u59	Madam, I'd be happy to oblige. Quiet in the hall, please! Thank you. One more time. Please, dear colleagues, if you have anything to do with this, go to the lobby, allow the performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u60	Thank you. I'm pumping from what I read. It's a statement from Mr. New Minister of Health, Petr Arenberger. It's really scandalous. I believe no one took his words seriously, because apparently he never saw little children, and he knows that this is completely unacceptable. So as I'm saying, please, the entire House, so that we can open this point here, talk about it, consider the possibilities and make it easier for all children to enter schools, not leave them in this trauma that they experience every day because they have to be tested twice a week, and from that actually, when you take them, twice a week they test each other, the next week they're back home. So I don't think this is the right schooling that should be. Thank you for the floor. And otherwise -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u61	Fixed classification of this point, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u62	I would like to place this item on Thursday at 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u63	On Thursday, we assume that we will continue the 93rd meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u64	Friday? [[- Friday?]] 9:00? [[President: 9:00. Okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u65	Mr Vojtěch Munzar on the agenda. I'll read the apologies before the MP arrives. Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes today until 16 o'clock for work reasons and apologizes to Mr Daniel Pawlas today, for today's medical hearing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask you to pre-schedule item 350, it's the House press 1126, about real estate mediation. Thanks to your willingness at the previous meetings, this press has reached its third reading, with only two votes waiting. I believe that just as in the first and second reading it will be a quick matter, however we have raised certain expectations with real estate brokers that due to the problems with the covid there will be some tolerance to passing qualification tests for real estate brokers by the end of the year. In order to meet this expectation, in order to reduce the time of uncertainty that is now, we should approve this press as soon as possible. Therefore, I would like to ask you if we could discuss this point as the first item of the third reading this Friday 16. 4. I know there have been proposals here, so if they're successful, then after these fixed points, or if you don't like it on Friday, Wednesday 21. 4., again as the first point of the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u67	Thank you, and the next application is from Mrs Válková to the agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we've all received this, the presidents of the MPs absolutely, so I'm just going to raise my vote to take a firm position on 22 April at 11 o'clock, which is a bit atypical in that it's not the House press, as you probably know, because it's Thursday. It is an international treaty - an option protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We've had this debt for two years now, and we need to discuss the second and third reading here. So my proposal is this point, which you have as 316, is the House Press 356 - option protocol to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities - discuss on Thursday, April 22 at 11 o'clock as the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u69	Thank you. There were more proposals on Thursday, so we'll see how successful they will be, or we'll modify the proposal. So, that's it for now... Mr. President of the Election Commission, Mr. Mr. Mr. Kolovratník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u70	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, and I'm sorry, it was very short notice. Colleagues and colleagues, please now, after a quick preliminary agreement with the presidents of the MPs, for a small modification, or it will be counter-proposal to those electoral points, as President Faltýnek asked for them, and the modification will be the following. I propose to put the voting points on 18.30 today firmly, but in this order: first point 399, then point 400, then point 401, 402 and 403, and then just... I'm sorry, I'm going to read it again: points 399, 400, 401, 402 and 404, and only then as the last point in 403, this is the Czech TV. In other words, the order of the last two points will be moved. As we discussed, consensus prevails on most electoral points and the choice to implement them, vote. The point is that these are really the institutions that we need to occupy, and that - as we understand - at this point in the dispute, the topic of Czech Television - 403 would be the last thing we could do to give him a political discussion, a debate and, if necessary, a vote on any further procedure. So, once again, the modification to President Faltýnek's motion - voting points at 6:30, in this order: 399, 400, 401, 402, 404 and 403 as last. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u71	Okay, little recap. Mr. Faltýnek's proposal fell here, and he was then modified that 398 was not fulfilled. Then there was the pirát' proposal to vote after the points, and this would be counterproposal. President Stanjura with priority rights is now reporting, then President Faltýnek, also a priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u72	I just want to be clear about this. I don't mind voting on points. Every time someone asks for points, they vote for points, that's the custom. But to make sense of the electoral committee's proposal, we must say that after point 404, when the debate to vote on the big television board is over, we will vote. That means the proposal was supposed to mean there'd be two electoral blocks. First election block, and then the second election block starts. But that has to be said, because then it's just throwing the points and the debate itself has no sense in the sense of whether or not to vote today is going to be. Thank you for any clarification that the President of the Election Commission should make, because that is his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u73	He could probably modify it later on, but it's better if we tell each other at the beginning. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will simplify the situation, withdraw, withdraw my proposal and ask Martin Kolovratník to clarify his proposal in the spirit of what the ODS chairman said here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u75	Thank you, there's no problem with that. I'd be happy to make sure that it's correctly recorded on the microphone and on the screen record, in other words, that there's no evasive action planned. So, yes, that's how I plan on running those polls and what I'm going to ask for tonight's management meeting. So one more time; we're counting on it, or we're asking, and I propose that these points be included in the order that I said: 399, 400, 401, 402 and 403, that's going to be the first block of polling points. [[404?]] Then we interrupt the meeting, the election takes place in the State Acts, and then the next point comes, which is point 403 as in the second block of the electoral points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u76	So thank you, and given that this is basically a new proposal, that after point 404 we are going to vote, my question is whether the Pirate Party insists on voting after points, or we would vote on the proposal as a whole. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Will one vote be enough? Now that we know what we're voting on? All the elections, we're going to vote, then we're going back to Czech TV. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby again. [[Gong.]] The proposals were not enough and we have to deal with them somehow. We would be the first to vote on the proposal of the Gremium, which would be one vote. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am opening the vote. Who's in favour of the grémia proposal? Who's against it? Voting order number 2, 186 present, for 176, against no one. The motion was accepted. Now, Mr Feri's proposal to include a new item in the Government's Information on the Pandemic Law. Initiating vote. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Voting order number 3, registered 187, for 178, against no one. The motion was accepted. This point has been included. There's a proposal for his solid inclusion this Wednesday at 6:30. Initiating vote. All in favor, Wednesday 14. 4, 18.30? Who's against it? Vote order number 4, logged in 187, for 182, against no one. This proposal was adopted. President Chvojka suggested that as the fourth point in the second reading block, we include the 1025 press, the amendment to the Employment Act, the so-called Kursarbeit. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 5, registered 187, for 177, against no one. The motion was accepted. President Fiala suggested that we put the press at 652, paragraph 15, which is the completion of the second reading of the amendment to the Act on Aid in Material Need, as the second point on Wednesday afternoon. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 6, registered 186, for 30, against 42. The motion was not accepted. Vice-President Filip suggested that we include paragraph 206, print 638, amendment to the conflict of interest law, as paragraph 55, print 956. We place the first reading between the second reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 7, registered 187, for 110, versus 32. The motion was accepted. President Farský proposes that we put the press 1073, paragraph 101, on Tuesday next week, i.e. 20. 4th as the first point. What's that? Yes, that's the partial implementation - an amendment to the insolvency law. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 8, registered 185, for 64, against no one. Motion denied. President Faltýnek has withdrawn his proposal. We will then vote on the motion by the Chairman of the Kolovratník Commission. And here's Mrs Langšádlová's proposal to disable the press, 966. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 9, currently registered 186 Members, for 62, versus 21. The motion was not accepted. The Member also proposes to include a new point in the Government's information on ensuring the security interests of the state in the implementation of the Dukovany nuclear block. Initiating vote. Who's up for a new point? Who's against it? Voting order number 10, registered 187, for 66, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. President Jurečka proposes to include paragraph 504, the investigation committee in the case of Bečva. First he proposes to place him as the first point on Friday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 11, registered 187, for 88, against no one. The motion was not accepted. An alternative proposal has fallen to include this point on Wednesday 21. 4th as the first point in the afternoon. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 12, registered 187, for 94, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[15.40 hours]] Furthermore, one more proposal has been made by the President to include today... Or first the inclusion of a new point in the current vaccination situation, a new point. Initiating vote. Who's up for this point? Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered 187, for 93, against no one. The motion was denied. First, President Bartošek proposed to eliminate paragraph 342, which we have already voted on. Alternatively, he proposed to be placed at the end of the third reading block. It's lex Dukovany, I hate to say it, but let everyone know what we're voting on. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, registered 187, for 65, against 22. The motion was not accepted. There are now several proposals from Mr Černohorský. Firstly, the Member proposes paragraph 346, the House press of 911, to include 545 behind the House press, as it has been classified by the Gremies. Initiating vote. Who's in? Press, not a point. Who's against it? Voting number 15, registered 187, for 82, against no one. This proposal was not adopted. Furthermore, there is a proposal by the Member to include paragraph 19, House printing 944, as point 13, which is House printing 603, compensation in connection with sterilization, if I say so in such a simple way. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, registered 186, for 65, against 19. The motion was denied. Thirdly, the Member proposes to include paragraph 214, House Press 695, as the first item on Wednesday. This is a modification of the paternity and extension of the circle of persons in the infirmary, for which the coexistence of caregivers and caregivers in the household is not required and so on. [[Notes from the diaper.]] So now we've put one in there? There is one point, however, either the Member insists that it is the first or may be the second. Shows me that second. We will vote on this point that it will be ranked second, paragraph 214, tomorrow as the second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, registered 187, for 79, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Fourthly, the Member proposes that we include paragraphs 113, 114 and 115, Parliamentary press 1150, 955 and 1151, all of which concern whistleblowing, as item 62 of the proposed agenda, which is the Parliamentary press 1106. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18, registered 186, for 31, anti 25. The motion was not accepted. These were all the proposals of Mr Černohorský. There is also Mr Luzar's proposal, including a new item Information of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček on the situation in the steel industry. New point. Initiating vote. Who's up for this new point? Who's against it? Voting number 19, registered is 187, for 103, against no one. A new point has been placed. And now there is a proposal from the Member to include him as the first item on Tuesday, 20 April. Initiating vote. Who's up for a solid assignment? Who's against it? Voting number 20, logged in 186, for 100, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Martínek proposes removing item 403 from the agenda, which is the choice for the Czech Television Council. Point 403, application for elimination. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, registered 186, for 73, against 94. The motion was not accepted. President Michálek suggested that we put the press 956, the amendment to the info law, tomorrow, 14. 4., after already firmly placed points. There's one at the moment. [[Objection.]] No? So please fix it, or did I mismark it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u77	Thank you. I'm specifying. It's a conflict of interest law, not an info law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u78	Yes, I'm sorry about the conflict of interest. So 956, the amendment to the conflict of interest law to be fixed tomorrow as a second point, actually after the first one. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, registered 186, for 84, against no one. The motion was denied. First of all, President Stanjura proposes printing 1039, state aid for emergency measures, second and third reading, first of all, to be included in this meeting. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of including this press in two points, second and third readings? Who's against it? Voting number 23, registered 187, for 85, against no one. The motion was not accepted. So we didn't include the press, we're not gonna vote on solid inclusion anymore. Secondly, the President has proposed that we put the press 1025, briefly cursarbeit, as a third point tomorrow afternoon. Since he failed the previous proposal, so did the second point. Kurzarbeit tomorrow as the second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? [[Notes.]] He's already been assigned within the block, but this is voteable, it's a solid classification. Who's against it? Voting number 24, registered 187, for 107, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[15.50 hours]] Furthermore, there was a proposal for printing 94, for remission of insurance premiums, first reading, Antivirus C, tomorrow as at this moment the third point after the cursarbeit. Print 947 tomorrow as the third point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Antivirus C. Voting number 25, registered 187, for 89, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal for printing 948, on some insurance adjustments and so on, to include tomorrow as the fifth point, so now it would be the third point. At this point, we are voting to print 948 Forgiveness of minimum advances was placed as the third point tomorrow. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered 186, for 86, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Mr Valenta suggested that we include the annual reports on the activities of Czech Television for 2018 and 2019 as well as the annual reports on the management of Czech Television for 2018 and 2019 - in the order I say - on 11.00 next Thursday. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, registered 187, in favour of 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mr Třešňák suggested that we include paragraph 296, press 1040, at 21. 4th as the first point in the afternoon. Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u79	Thank you for the floor. I voted against in the previous vote, but I have a pro on high. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u80	That was the annual news of Czech Television. We will now first vote on Mr Ferjenčík's objection. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 187 entered, for 178, versus no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore repeat the vote on Mr Valenta's proposal to include the annual reports on the activities and management of Czech Television for next Thursday at 11 o'clock. Who's in favour of this assignment? Who's against it? Voting number 29, registered 187, for 159, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Mr Třešňák proposed paragraph 296, press 1040, to include 21. 4th as the first afternoon point. Bečva is there at the moment, she passed, so if the Member agrees that it will be point 2. Or does he insist on going before Bečva? What's up, two? [[Deputy Cherry: As a second point.]] So, as a second point, after the investigation committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, registered 187, for 87, versus 1. The motion was not accepted. Mr Lubomír Volný's proposals are now here. First, the inclusion of a new point of compensation for tour bus operators. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31, registered 187, for 84, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, there is a proposal to include a new item in the abolition of compulsory tests and drapes in schools. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, registered 186, for 27, versus 36. The motion was denied. The third proposal, an item entitled Disclaimer of the Minister of Health. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33, registered 186, for 64, versus 42. The motion was denied. Mr Ondráček proposes the inclusion of a new point in the Government's information on loosening up. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, registered 187, for 95, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore now vote on the solid inclusion of this point. First of all, there's a proposal for it to be on Tuesday 20. 4. as a second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, registered 187, for 94, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Mrs Golasowská proposes the inclusion of a new item Information by the Prime Minister and Minister Karel Havlíček on the serious situation in Liberty Steel Ostrava. New point. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 36, registered 186, for 85, against no one. The motion was denied. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová proposes that we include point 518, Information for vaccination - first there is a proposal for 14. Four, tomorrow, at 6:00. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, registered 187, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. Mrs Hyťhová proposes the inclusion of a new item Information on the opening of all schools. Initiating vote. Who's up for a new point? [[Objection from an employee of the organizational department.]] I'm sorry, I ended the vote (38). I now pronounce him misguided. [[16.00 hours]] We will vote on the solid inclusion of this point on Friday at 9.00, as proposed. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, logged in 186, for 86, against no one. The motion was denied. Mr Munzar proposes paragraph 350, press 1126, the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act, firmly to include - and now, alternatively, ahead, the first point on Friday 16. 4. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, logged in 187, for 86, versus 1. The motion was denied. Alternatively, the Member said that after the fixed points. There are points of third reading, so if I can understand that, after third readings as the first point? Isn't that right? The MP wants to be more specific on the microphone, I'll give him a chance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u81	Thank you, Mr President. I suggested it as the first point of the third reading because it's the third reading. In case there's any... I think there's been some sort of suggestion, didn't there go through anything? Then, alternatively, after the fixed points. If there's nothing there, Wednesday next week will be the first point of third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u82	I'd put that to a third vote. I had three suggestions. So if we don't vote on the other one, then the next proposal is on Wednesday 21. 4. as the first point within the block of third reading. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 41, logged in 187, for 171, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Mrs Válková proposes that we include point 316, which is the option protocol to the UN Convention, and discuss it firmly 22. 4 o'clock at 11 o'clock. [[A brief meeting.]] So I'll do it again. It's an international treaty, only the TV news has been posted there. Then we have to deal with it in some way. Madam, do you insist that this be before the news or after the news? If you could get us out of this and adjust the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u83	Well, I think it'll be quick, very fast. I'm not sure it's gonna be quick on those messages. I'm almost sure it won't be fast. So before the news.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u84	Okay, so the MP insists that this be the first point next Thursday at 11 o'clock. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 42, registered is 187, for 126, versus 21. The motion was accepted. On Thursday we will start with an international treaty and then there will be reports on the activities of Czech Television. Finally, we will vote on the motion by Mr Kolovratník, the President of the Election Commission, who proposes that we include paragraphs 399, 400, 401, 402, 404 today, then we take the vote, and then paragraph 403 will follow. We are voting this procedure with one vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 43, logged in 187, for 178, versus no one. The motion was accepted. These are all the proposals that have been made, and we will now vote on the agenda of the meeting as a whole. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of the proposed agenda, as amended by the proposals adopted? Who's against it? Voting number 44, registered is 187, for 148, versus 5. The motion was accepted. I note that we have agreed with the agenda and the agenda has been approved. Thank you. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-13-ps2017-098-01-000-000.u85	Good afternoon, honourable Members. According to the agenda now approved, we will discuss individual points, but first let me read the apology made by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 15.30 to the end of the day, because of urgent work obligations, Professor Arenberger apologizes to the Minister of Health. We will now begin the item of this meeting, namely the item number
