ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal by Members of Marek Výborný, Jan Bartošek, Pavel Bělobrádek, Jiří Mihola and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of some other laws, as amended /German press 649/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 649/1. I prosit that Mr Marek, Mr Marek, make an Výborný proposal for the appellants. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u2	Dear Vice-President, Minister, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I also thank you for supporting the programme of this extraordinary meeting, which was initiated for a purely practical reason, in order to take the necessary step to approve the electoral rules, which are absolutely necessary to prevent elections from taking place on their own, because they can also take place today, but so that the entire electoral process does not end at the time of the closure of the polling rooms, where the Czech Statistical Office would not have the option - or did not know how - the will of the voters, so to speak, means the votes cast for individual political parties, coalitions and political entities, to count on individual mandates. I would just like to remind you, and very briefly, that this meeting actually responds to the published decision of the Constitutional Court of 3 February this year, when the Constitutional Court, the truth, after more than three years, gave a finding responding to the constitutional complaint of a group of senators of the Senate of the Czech Republic, and in principle, since you all certainly had the opportunity to get to know this finding in detail, was also discussed in the media and in the professional circles of political scientists and constitutional lawyers...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u4	I understand that everyone has read the constitutional finding, I will not even read it here, but I will briefly remind them that the fundamental point of what the Constitutional Court has expressed, and we, as legislators, have to respect this, were two facts. On the one hand, the Constitutional Court stated that the law contained a recording forum for coalitions, which today is 10 and 15 and 20 percent respectively for coalitions, that it is disproportionate and in a way discriminatory. The second issue concerned the mathematical model of the conversion of votes into mandates, which was also abolished by the Constitutional Court. Let us just remember that the current valid model, according to which elections took place in 2017, is a model that arose from the reaction already to the previous Constitutional Court decision to the electoral changes that were made at the time of the opposition agreement, and when subsequently there was an anchoring of d'Hondt's system, but combined with various large electoral circuits - that means that the Czech Republic does not have the same size as the number of voters - so that this system deviates from what the Constitution provides for. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, where it is clearly said that the elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and now I quote directly Art. 18 of the Constitution, 'takes place by secret ballot on the basis of general equal and direct electoral rights according to the principles of proportional representation'. Paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 then lists the difference in Senate elections, where elections are held according to the principles of the majority system. [[11.10 hours]] We can debate whether this is standard and is to be anchored in the Constitution or not. But this is an academic debate for constitutional lawyers, and the will of the legislator and the will of those who wrote the Constitution almost 30 years ago was such that the electoral system in the Constitution is enshrined, and therefore it is the duty of the legislators to respect this diction of the Constitution. At this point, what we KDU-ČSL Members, but also other parties, have been told, or even on the basis of the Constitutional Court's findings, is what we KDU-ČSL Members, but also other parties have been, because the senators of other political entities have also been signed under constitutional complaints, which means that the Constitution is talking about a proportional electoral system for elections to the Chamber of Deputies, but the system is actually gaining significant majority elements, in combination with small circuits on the one hand, and the Hondt's model of conversion of votes into mandates on the other hand. This was the subject of a constitutional complaint, which is what the Constitutional Court has complied with, and we, as legislators, are now faced with the timely amendment of the electoral law so that elections to the Chamber of Deputies can take place at a time that has already been declared President of the Republic on 8 and 9 October of this year. The Constitutional Court has abolished the recording kvorum for the coalition, or, in fact, it is not a problem at the moment, because at the moment, it is paying a minimum clause of 5% regardless of whether it is a political party, a movement or a coalition. And what the problem is that at this point in the law is not how votes are converted into mandates. Representatives of the political parties, now I ask nicely regardless of whether the government or opposition, as well as representatives of the Senate, in response to the Constitutional Court's finding, have agreed that a substantive consensus must be found on how the electoral law will be adjusted, so that elections can take place properly. These negotiations began in principle immediately after the decision of the Constitutional Court. The meeting of the Standing Commission for the Constitution was held here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as on the floor of the Senate, held by the President of the two chambers of Parliament on the floor of the Senate under the patronage of President Vystrčil, where representatives of all parliamentary parties had the opportunity to comment on the fundamental points that were on the table. Of course, some things that are not the subject of the Constitutional Court's finding, such as the number of electoral regions, have also been opened in debates and public debates, but the Constitutional Court has not in any way cancelled or criticized it, and if I am well aware of the political negotiations, at the moment we really want to focus on the two issues, and that is the recording board for the coalition, and that is the conversion of votes into mandates. That is one thing, that is the substance that is very key and important, and I see that there are various negotiations taking place this week at the level of political parties that are trying to find consensus, because, and I want to stress this, if we are to arrive at a result, then we need to get 101 Members in the Chamber and 41 Senators to do so. At the same time, we must bear in mind that this is an electoral law, which means that there is a so-called boat, which means that one chamber cannot overrule the other, neither the Chamber of the Senate nor the Senate of the House. The key is not only the agreement here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but also the agreement with the majority in the Senate is crucial. Therefore, it is not possible to remove the Senate's views from these negotiations or disregard the senators' views. I am pleased that on the ground of both the Constitutional Commissions, both in the Senate and in the House, as well as in terms of club presidents, we are aware of this, that we are trying to reach consensus and that the substantive side of the matter will soon be brought to a successful final and consensus. The second thing, and this is actually the subject of today's meeting, is that we need to have some legislative medium within which we could approve these amendments in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House and the Senate. It is basically technical, which is why, at the first meeting, there was a consensus here in the House at the beginning of February to use what is the fastest at the moment, and this is House press number 649, which is the subject of today's negotiations and which is here in the House already, if I am not mistaken, since 19 November 2019. It is a proposal for an amendment to the electoral law number 247/1995 Coll., which was submitted by Members of the KDU-ČSL Club, who already in 2019 without knowing the future finding of the Constitutional Court, actually responded exactly to the two things that the Constitutional Court subsequently decided on. This means, in our novel, which we have on the table today, we are responding both to the loader for the coalitions that we are shutting down, and so are we responding to injustice not to politicians or Members, but to voters when it comes to converting votes into mandates. I want to stress that. This is indeed the principle of equality of electoral law, and when you look at the outcome of the elections of 2017, it is quite obvious that equality does not apply here, because one Member of the strongest political club in the House, when I see President Faltýnek or Mrs Valachová before me, represents about 19 000 voters, while I represent about 29 000 voters as a KDU-ČSL Member. This is the actual number of votes required to obtain the KDU-ČSL mandate. And if we look at the smallest political clubs like STAN or TOP 09, that's where the cipher gets up to 44,000. It is therefore a question, not of us Members, but of the equality of the voice of individual voters. That's what we responded to in our 649 press. We are proposing a model that has already been in the Czech Republic, proved its worth by 1998 and 2002, and is based on the Hagenbach-Bischoffův model method or the conversion of votes into mandates. If I make it very simple, our proposal fully respects the relative electoral system in the Chamber of Deputies. If you look into it, those mandates are allocated from a national level above the regional level, so first, based on the results of the election, the number of votes, that's math, I'm not going to burden you here. To put it simply, the number of mandates that will fall to the political party at national level on the basis of the national election result is calculated, and only in step two are these mandates allocated to each electoral region. Of course, there will still be some small remainder, and then in the second scrutiny, this small remainder is assigned to those parties that report the largest remainder in the division of votes and the number of mandates. Everything else you have very detailed described in the explanatory memorandum. Just for a closer illustration, so everyone can imagine: Today, the outcome of the 2017 elections means that the ANO movement has won 29,64 per cent of the votes, but the actual force in the House is 39 per cent, so that is the difference of 10 percentage points between the ratio of the votes received and the actual power in the Chamber of Deputies. On the contrary, if we look at the mayor and independent movement, who won 5,18 per cent of the vote, their actual power is just 3%, or the difference of more than 2 percentage points to the detriment of the smallest subjects. So this is the result of the current model, as we have it, as I explained here. [[11.20 hours]] Our aim is and the content of our proposal is that we get to a balanced number in principle. It won't be 100% true, but it will be different in the order of 1 or 2 % and not 10 % as it is today. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to, because it is the subject of today's negotiations, at least briefly introduce the House Press 649, a proposal from the KDU-ČSL workshop. But I want to point out here, I want to make it clear here that we are seeing this clearly, at this point, as not something that we are going to push our heads against the wall, but that it is a legislative medium that we are making available to include the political agreement of the majority on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, I stress, the majority on the floor of the Senate. If this succeeds, it will be ensured that even at this time, very dramatic, when we are dealing with completely different things, such as testing, vaccination, combating the COVID-19 pandemic, but we will also ensure what is crucial and crucial to democracy in our country, in order to be able to take place properly, in accordance with the Constitution, democratic elections to the lower Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your support for putting this press on the ground of a guarantee constitutional law committee, and also for thanking the chairmen of the MPs and representatives of the political parties that the negotiations on the material aspect that is crucial and important - now not about the press 649 - will lead very quickly to the outcome so that we can actually conclude the process here in the House, then in the Senate and by the end of May or by the end of June at the latest. It is also important for all political actors who are already preparing for elections in the framework of the announced campaign, and we really should not delay or delay this matter in any way. KDU-ČSL and the coalition of SPOLU are prepared for this, and precisely to speed up the process, allow me to conclude by asking pursuant to § 91 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, in order to reduce the time limit to 20 days in the event of a shift to the Guarantee Committee. Thank you very much, and also thank you to the MPs for not vetoing it. It comes from some kind of agreement here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u5	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs, Mr Excellent. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr Jiří Strýček, whom I am now asking to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have had a long talk here, but since my colleague Výborný has already said everything, and to give room to colleagues who are enrolled in this debate, I will just give a brief description of the proposal and what is essentially its meaning. The purpose of the whole bill is to remove the limit of the number of votes reached needed for the coalition for the procedure into the scrutinium. That is why the coalition will be viewed in the same way as the political party or political movements. Furthermore, the proposal provides for a new way of converting the votes reached into mandates. According to the petitioners, the existing system puts the parties with fewer votes at a disadvantage. To make this short: unlike the current legislation, it is proposed to abolish d'Hondt's method by an electoral divisor and replace it with an electoral number, meaning the Hareův quota, to abolish the loading clause for coalitions and to maintain 14 electoral regions, but mandates would primarily be allocated at the country-wide level. I guess that's short of what I was gonna say. I wanted to sign up for the general debate with the procedural proposal, but it has already been heard here. However, just what I would like to point out in the direction of the speaker is that I personally think that this d'Hondt method is not unfair. She's not comfortable compared to 14 counties. Therefore, I will express my opinion that for me as the most transparent and best solution is one electoral region. And the second thing I wanted to say is that basically about injustice: well, I would like to ask where the fairness was in 2001, when the last electoral law was passed here, which was approved by 20 Members, sorry, 19 KDU-ČSL Members, who were sitting in the House at that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I am now opening the debate. I have several applications for the debate with priority rights. First will be President Radim Fiala, then the President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u8	Good morning, fellow Members, Mr President, allow me a few words on this bill. I took part in a meeting of the chairmen of both parliamentary and senator clubs in the Senate and gave a brief opinion of the SPD movement. Allow me to do so in the Chamber of Deputies. First of all, I have something to say about the Constitutional Court's statement. For the SPD movement, I must say that we respect the Constitutional Court's statement that we respect the Constitutional Court as an institution, but that does not prevent us from commenting. I mean, the Constitutional Court has put us in a very - diplomatically speaking - special situation where he issued such a statement six months before the elections or before the candidates were submitted. If he had issued this statement for two years, a year before the elections, we would have had enough room to discuss this law to be of good quality. This law, although many do not realize it, is more important than, for example, the State Budget Act, which we say is the most important law of the Chamber of Deputies or of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This is a law that will affect politics in the Czech Republic for many, many years. This is a law that will say whether our governments will be stable or not, whether they will be here three times within four years of the election, whether governments will change and whether they will still rule here in this republic. That is why I think that the Constitutional Court's statement was either very late or too early and was to come after the election so that there would be sufficient time for this important law. Furthermore, it is very strange for me that this law has already been passed by the Constitutional Court once, and the Constitutional Court has issued some caselaw that everything is okay, and today - or some time ago - the Constitutional Court has passed a new judgment that, with the one that it did a few years ago - I do not know exactly whether it was ten, eight, fifteen or how many years ago - is quite definitely different. And the last thing you all know is that this law was prepared by the President of today's Constitutional Court, then as a Member. So that would be just a very brief statement from the Constitutional Court, and now allow me a brief opinion on the SPD movement. At first, we were thinking about supporting one constituency, but we figured it out - and we want to contribute to some mutual consensus, because, after all, it will be a matter of compromise between all the parliamentary and senator clubs, when these Members and Senators have to agree - and after a discussion on a broad political spectrum, we are retreating from one constituency and we are willing to proceed to a variant of 14 regions, as is the case in that law today. It is a gesture of goodwill from us to agree and to make at least as good a law as possible. [[11.30 hours]] And then there's the second thing, and that's for the coalition. In the Senate, we agreed that it would be a two-calice and three-calice treaty, which we agreed to and we agree. However, in the proposed proposal, it is 7 per cent and 9 per cent for 3 per cent and the SPD will propose 9 per cent for 2 per cent and 13 per cent for 3 per cent for 3 per cent. Please consider this as some sort of basic model so that we can continue to reason so that we can continue to reach a compromise. But I'm afraid that if, for example, this were to remain at 5% or at a low level, there would be another fragmentation of the political scene. The Chamber of Deputies would reach three four sides, one percent of which would fall apart after the elections and political corruption would occur, selling their votes to other larger parties. And one last thing. We, too, agree to recalculate the mandates according to the proportional system. I think it's right. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there should also be a majority element in this recount and in the proportional system. And I say this even though, as a SPD movement, we remain on the same system all the time, plus minus one mandate, it doesn't hurt us, but the point is that the political scene in the Czech Republic is stable. And now the question is that all of you, including senators, think about whether we want three elections and three governments within four years, as it is in Belgium, Spain, Israel, and so on, where political scenes and political governments are very unstable and elections are taking place very often. In such countries you cannot rule and for those countries you can do very little during the year when the government de facto works, because you are de facto permanently ahead of the parliamentary elections. So I'd like everyone to consider this option. And I'm saying that we are not yet aspiring to the winner of the elections in the Czech Republic. There is no personal interest in this, there is only one interest in it - to have a stable political scene. So it was a brief position for the SPD movement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Now Chairman of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. After him, Chairman Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Member, honourable Members. For one thing, it is not often for me to perform on the content side of a proposal. However, it is such an important standard for all of us that I make an exception. I don't want to get into a long speech. Maybe I could fit in a factual note. I do not want to talk about relative or majority elements in a proportional system and what advantages they have or how they can stabilise the political system. I'd like to keep this debate either for discussion of a government proposal or for second reading. I would like to thank Members of the Excellent that he used the term legislative medium three times in his speech. We are really debating today that we are going to release this law as a legislative medium by first reading, and I dare say, I hope, a backup legislative medium, because we all know that at the end of the legislative process, there will be a different standard than the one that is now entering it. Just for the record. This press in its time received a dissenting government opinion. This dissenting position of the Government was based on the settled case law of the Constitutional Court at that time. That was the main substance of the government's dissenting position. However, the new constitutional finding changed everything. What can I say? I can think of a word from a movie - a new age. Of course, I don't think it is necessary to continue the controversy with the Constitutional Court's decision. I just want to quote one sentence from that dissenting government position, which is essentially timeless. At the time, the Government wrote that such a proposal would have meant a significant change in the regulation of the electoral system, and such substantial changes should always be treated on the basis of a broader and more detailed discussion across the political spectrum, including the involvement of the professional public and the resulting consensus on the form of such a change. Such a discussion has not yet taken place, and the explanatory memorandum does not provide a more detailed analysis of the impact of the proposed change. Nothing changed about the validity of this sentence, unfortunately we were prepared for this wider discussion and involvement of the professional public. This discussion may have taken place behind closed doors of the Constitutional Court, and if I am to give the truth to the minority report of the judges who disagreed, the discussion did not take place there either. I have one request. Now that we are embarking on such a fundamental change in our legal system, the electoral laws, when we are lacking the more detailed discussions that I am talking about, let us at least use a transparent, legislatively, professionally developed government proposal that counts on two options and which may be the basis for further discussions. Of course, I note that in paragraphs 3 and 4, the Government draws attention to other problematic aspects of the wording of the proposed proposal and draws attention to legislative technical deficiencies. Please, let's put that aside, because we all heard that we would change it anyway. The Constitutional Court's decision is a little strange in that it is such a clever mountaineer that it states that even though the existing breakdown of the territory in a different large electoral region is not in itself unconstitutional, along with other elements of the electoral system violates the principles of equality of votes and the chances of candidate political parties, which is unconstitutional. However, the nature of the problem is simply that we have equally large regions in the Czech Republic and consequently equally large electoral regions. That is why the YES movement is proposing that one electoral district be introduced, where we will make the demands for a fair distribution of votes to the maximum extent possible, because, as you will read in the justification of the government proposal, which speaks of the positives and negatives of 14 regions, as well as in the part concerning 14 regions, the logical sentence is that the inevitable consequence of the same size 14 electoral regions is that fewer mandates will be allocated in smaller electoral regions. That's logical, no need for voters to explain to you. It seems at this point that we are more alone in the argument on this subject, we as the YES movement. However, as the government's position on the previous proposal tells us, as common sense tells us, it is important for these laws to have as broad a discussion as possible, and then, if possible, to find some compromise, some consensus. The constitutional finding means that there are empty spaces in the electoral law at the moment, and our duty is to fill those empty spaces with new rules, not to let the reputation of the Czech Republic be damaged as a country where we can proudly declare ourselves to be a rule of law, that all standards apply in our country. And in order to prevent a real reduction in prestige at international level, which would happen to us if we went to the elections and basically didn't know how, so it could happen to us. That is why we, as an YES movement, are open to further negotiations. We agreed basically that today we agreed to the program, we will not veto the reduction of the deadline to 20 days and we will release this press to the next reading. In addition, an extraordinary meeting is convened for Tuesday at 14.00, where the government press will discuss it in the same way and where we will request a reduction of the deadline to 15 days, which will actually bring both of these prints to the same level as regards deadlines. And I am convinced, after the previous debates between the clubs and the big debate in the Senate, that we will be able to find a solution. Ambition is that we can find a solution that fills the voids and lasts more than one election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. We'll continue to perform in priority rights. The order is as follows: Vojtěch Filip, Jan Chvojka, Vlastimil Válek, Zbyněk Stanjura. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, thank you. I'll be quite brief. We have heard criticism of the Constitutional Court procedure. I made the decision in writing even after the Constitutional Court gave the statement that, if anyone had said so, it was mostly that people accepted it or refused it according to their preferences. But everyone, whatever their opinion, said that something so outrageous with time has not yet been experienced by the European continent, which is true. It is evident that there is a complex political task ahead of us, but perhaps that is why we will be able and willing to carry it out, including a difficult debate with the Senate. At the first meeting of the political representation on how quickly to reach negotiations on the electoral law, I agreed that the press will be 649, which has been here since November 2019. Our draft electoral law number 547 has been here since July 2019. So consider it a helpful step of the KSČM to agree on the form of the electoral law. A colleague of the Výborný here said quite the correct sentence that the easiest agreement would be to go back in principle to the electoral law, the principles of the electoral law that were in force here until 2000, and 2002 before the first elections to the Chamber of Deputies were in 14 regions. Yes, I think that's a step in the right direction and that we could look for the fastest agreement on the form of electoral law. Why? Because, first of all, it is a tested system in the Czech Republic, it served as an election to the Czech National Council, to the Federal Assembly and to the post-November representation prepared it with great confidence that it would prepare elections for the citizens of the Czech Republic, which would be understandable to people and also correspond to opinions in society. Therefore, in principle, we are returning to the fact that there are two electoral systems - a majority to the Senate and a proportion to the Chamber of Deputies, which, precisely because of what has been said here in the speech of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, has been changed to a system which has recorded the majority elements. Finally, President Radim Fiala, for the SPD movement, also reminded of the stability of the government, and the correction, if you want, would be unpleasant, unfavorable for someone else's distortion, to express the harsh words that mean the introduction of a part of the majority elements into the proportional system, i.e. d. Hondt's number, did not, of course, create even an indication of a more stable political situation. In the long run, I hold to the slogan that the more complex the negotiations, the greater success in the implementation, because if at the beginning of each process there is a need to compete for what conditions of cooperation will be, whether within different coalitions or within the framework of an agreement on procedure on individualities, the better and more stable we will get to some outcome, which will then serve a long time. I had many meetings when a rapid compromise was concluded, which seemed advantageous, and he proved inadequate in six months and we had to change the law. That is often what we have met by all those who are rightfully dealing with. And I would like the compromise that will be concluded here in the House and with the Senate to be a compromise that will last a long time. If we have been operating in the system for 20 years d of Hondt's numbers and we knew that it was crooked - I said so from the start - a proportional system, but still acceptable because it is accepted by many political regimes in Europe, then we need to know what our compromise will be. I would like - and I appeal to our colleagues from the political parties who have a majority representation in the Senate - to negotiate with the Senate this time that these are elections to the Chamber of Deputies. To leave the Senate to us, the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, in which system we will vote. If we agree on the principle that the majority system is a system of Senate elections, no one will doubt that, no one will modify it. And every time a Senate proposal came in to modify the constituency - because, of course, 81 electoral districts were about the same size with roughly the same representation of citizens, and we had to force some municipalities to hold elections there every two years, not once every six years, see Příbramsko and Benešovsko - so I think and no one questioned it, it always went through here, even after the discussion that the Senate wanted. But let's see what kind of system it should be. Firstly, I believe that it should be proportionate and possible to increase the bonus for the winners of the elections, which is given by recounting in the second scrutiny, to make it as small as possible. If we agree on this as a principle, there is nothing to prevent us from adjusting the system quite technically simply, intelligiblely and also usefully for the future. Secondly, it is probably necessary to agree whether or not the principle of constitutional Article 5 applies, which means that it is a free competition between political parties and that political parties have the right both to draw up a candidate list for citizens and, where appropriate, to draw up a candidate or order for those who will take the votes in the second scrutiny. If we agree on this, we have half the work we need, because that questioning the role of political parties only leads to destabilization of the state, and I don't think we want anybody here. If we also come to this second principle, we have a lot of work to do, because in that case, political parties will have the opportunity to complement their own club either professionally, territorially, or also on the number of women and men, so that we understand each other well and meet the requirements that are imposed on normal political regimes in Europe. That's what I think is a principle that we could also approach. The third thing I would ask us to agree on is that our negotiations will lead to a compromise by the end of April at the latest, so that we can have the electoral law prepared and approved at least two months before the nomination, which means before August 3rd, if I am correct in the data for the technical security of the elections. I say this not only as a Member, but also as a chair of a political party, who then needs to ensure that, like all colleagues who are in a similar position in their own political party, we are able to respond to this in a way that is adequate to those needs. That's what I think is important. [[11.50 hours]] And the last thing I want to remind you is that maybe the things that we decide here will change our successors in the Chamber of Deputies after the election. I wouldn't fight it, either, but I would like what will be adopted here, the system by which to vote, to be a system that - albeit with certain elements of having to do it so quickly - is capable of having this discussion in fact, of being politically correct and, in my view, completely understandable to citizens. These are things that I think are important to us. This is a political battle, because, of course, the technique of elections allows some political parties to gain a lot. But on the other hand, I believe that we should not risk going into matters that the Constitutional Court has not abolished. This will simplify the situation and actually confirm that the political party is not some sort of disposable society, that the political party has a programme that is not a four-year programme, but that the political party is a group of people or a community of people who are interested in the state operating with perspective, long term and for the benefit of their own citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. Now, President Jan Chvojka, President Vlastimil Válek will prepare, then President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good morning, colleagues. First of all, I would like to appeal to the individual clubs, so that for each club one, maximum two people can speak, so that we can do it today by 13:00, because we curse by wanting to do it as quickly as possible, and so far it seems that there are clubs where four or five people want to talk about this issue, which is not that I want to forbid anyone, but at the same time we want to close it ideally today, please. So I'm the first one for our club, and I say one, two people, tops, for each club would be ideal if we wanted to release the press from the first reading to the constitutionally-legal committee. Two more comments on this issue, perhaps a little longer, but important. The first remark or the first aspect is a procedural, procedural aspect, the second aspect is a substantive aspect. As regards the procedural aspect: I agree - and I also said it a month ago, yesterday it was a month after the Constitutional Court found - with some criticisms of the Constitutional Court's decision-making at that time. I understand the criticism of the time when the finding was examined differently by Professor Jan Filip for three and a half years. President Rychetský said that the rapporteur Jan Filip, who was my professor at the Faculty of Law in Brno, was used to creating perfect works and that the finding was to be a perfect work. I agree with those who say that the work didn't have to be so perfect, and it could have come a little earlier. This means it could be a work that does not have 100 pages, but maybe only 80 pages, and if it had come at least six months earlier, it would have been for this society - because society represents specific political parties here and they have to find an agreement - so it would have been better for society and for political parties, of course, and they would have been under less pressure than when we have found the Constitutional Court on 3 February. And it's not eight months before the election, it's five and a half months before the election, when you have to meet all the different deadlines under the law, they stayed there. So the next time Mr Filip gets something, I would ask him to be a little bit faster, because three and a half years to work on finding even such important things seems to me a little too long, although I understand that it should be a perfect work. This is about the trial of the Constitutional Court. The process of deliberation in: The House: after the discovery, four days or five days thereafter, the political parties were convened. The ČSSD announced and thus fulfilled and fulfilled what it promised at the meeting. It has always encouraged this particular press to be a carrier, a platform for further negotiations, and to proceed as quickly as possible to second reading or committees. This did not happen, although it was proposed here about two or three times. We could've gotten this over with. It could've been on the Constitutional and Legal Committee by now. Unfortunately, this has not happened, the ČSSD has always voted in favour of discussing this as quickly as possible. At the same time, we have the Ministry of the Interior press, which logically had to write some of its own modifications, because it didn't know whether or not this press was going to move on, so here we have two modifications. It would probably be ideal if both of them met as quickly as possible on the Constitutional and Legal Committee, where we discussed them in a joint meeting, discussed the joint discussion and created some consensual intention, a press that would then vote in the third reading. It's about the trial. So, behind the ČSSD, we support this press going through the constitutionally-legal committee today to discuss it as quickly as possible with the Ministry of the Interior press and find the right way for voters to vote fairly. As regards the substance of the law and the finding of the Constitutional Court, because it is related: I am glad that the Constitutional Court has decided as it has decided. The truth is, if you look back at it - even some time ago 20 years ago, when I wasn't in politics and I went to school when I happened to be taught by a professor, then Professor Filip - it may have been a favorable system for ČSSD, for our party, but it wasn't a system, I admit it, fair, because the voice of every single voter wasn't as strong as the voice of any other voter. That's just the truth. And as the Constitutional Court has decided, it is okay for me and for the ČSSD, and it is right that it has decided that way, though, I repeat, it has taken too long. It is no longer worth discussing more than theoretically the possibility of establishing one constituency. The fact that we don't think this model is bad is true. At the same time, there is no point in discussing something that is politically impassable. If I look at the statements made by the Senate representatives, it simply does not have a chance to go there, so the question of one district as an electoral is dead, it is not worth discussing, maybe yes, but only theoretically - just the majority will not be needed in the Senate for him, and therefore let us abandon this idea and let us preserve 14 regions so that various regional differences and regional interests are represented here in the House. Therefore 14 regions definitely support ČSSD. Of course, we also support the cumulative clause for coalitions. I'm glad there's a match coming up. I am the only question I will still have, and I am afraid that justice can be found there despite the Constitutional Court's decision. When you look at the elections, it wasn't just unfair or less fair to large, medium or small parties, when the big party needed fewer votes in the election to have Members, and the smaller one needed more votes. It was also unfair within individual parties between regions, between different regions. And that's where I'm afraid we won't solve this problem even if we change the conversion. [[12.00 hours]] For example, if you look at the ČSSD, the ČSSD gets 7,8% in 2017 in the Moravian-Silesian Region, it has two MPs. And if he gets the same result in the Liberec Region, he doesn't have a MP. That means, that's the theme for thinking, that's where the inequality is. I realise that we will now be debating rather on the ground of the constitutionally-legal committee on various atrocities, on other atrocities, where we can possibly add a representative who would have been from a region that would not otherwise have gotten there. I understand that, but I say that it is very difficult this injustice, which is without doubt because we have 14 regions here, which are different large, the Moravian-Silesian region is a huge region, the Liberec Region, the Karlovy Vary Region, they are small regions, so there is simply logically, logically injustice within the framework of these elections. So this is rather a matter for the constitutionally-legal committee, if this can be resolved at all. I thank you for your attention and support the discussion of this press so that it gets to the constitutionally-legal committee as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u15	Have a nice noon and with priority rights Chairman of TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. He will perform even more briefly for our club than I will, Mr Jakob. I just want to say four things. The first thing is that the law is not for ourselves, but for voters, it means it should be fair enough for every voter to feel that his voice was really important, influenced the outcome of the election, and that they are not second-rate voters. The second thing I'd like to say. It's pointless to go back to history. What's past is past is meaningless at this point. Let's try to make this law last as long as possible, and let's face it, even if we stand on our heads, we'll never come up with a perfectly perfect law anyway, we'll have to adjust it sometimes, that's just life. Let's try to get closer to that perfection. Third thing I'd like to say. Even quite educated people feel for some reason, not completely understandable to me, that the more words they use, the greater their truth is true. Let's think about that, maybe less words are gonna be more than that today. And the fourth thing I'd like to say is thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u17	Now with priority rights chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u18	Thank you for the floor. I can also fit into the length of a factual comment. Let me express my discontent with the way this meeting is going. And now I'm talking to those who have priority rights, I'm not talking to other colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday, we made a clear agreement that it would be very quick, the rapporteur would come forward, come forward and let it go. [[Nesroz.]] President Chvojka apologizes for all the calls to keep us from talking, and then 10 minutes here tells us what we all know, which we've heard three times before. I really don't need two minutes. 20 days today, on Tuesday 15 days, ambition must be higher than President Filip said at the end of April. Let us, in particular, use next week for intensive political negotiations, we are able to discuss both options in exactly three weeks, if we create this agreement, in three weeks' reading, or in a quarter or a second reading. Let's focus our attention on that, where we focus our energy on the negotiations not just at the CDC. Let us say that it takes political negotiations, a political agreement, and the IDA will ensure that this is legislatively correct. There can be no agreement on the CIP without a political agreement. We're ready for her, we're going to do everything we can to try. We took 63 minutes with priority rights to your colleagues, so let's do at least 56 minutes and try to fulfill it by 13:00 and send it to second reading. I hope it doesn't happen again on Tuesday that it's gonna be 10 minutes on Tuesday if we have that government proposal that we're really just gonna throw it in there for 15 days and we're gonna go politically. For us, we're ready for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u19	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal will now appear and prepare Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. After the last performance, I'm embarrassed. I didn't want to discuss it at all because there was an agreement, but when there were individual opinions, I think ours should be heard, too, it's the only speech that fits this. We have always worked on this subject with several basic thesissies. The first was speed, so that we could discuss this quickly in order to reach a consensus, because there must be some stability, some predictability, and the longer the legislative process lasts and the later the new modifications come into force, the more likely they will be to open up to any possible assault or similar problems, and it can complicate both confidence in choice and confidence in their outcome. And that's something we certainly don't want at this time. Unfortunately, because of the stubbornness of some, we meet here after a month. I think that instead of fighting for what would be a legislative chassis, we could devote the power of negotiation, but I am glad that something has already been achieved. The second fundamental thesis was not to disturb what is not broken, it means to preserve the 14 regions, because the Constitutional Court did not cancel them because they work, they exist and it makes sense to build on them at the moment. Voters are used to them, political parties whose significance has also been emphasized here are used to them, so I see no reason to interfere at this time. The equality of votes that has been mentioned here as an argument for their possible breakup will not hold up, because the calculation you can do in one constituency is exactly the same as when you convert votes to mandates, you can do at 14 circuits, so you take the votes from those 14 circuits to the national level and there you will primarily count with them. This brings me to the third fundamental thesis, and that is the equality of the voter's vote, regardless of which region they choose and which side they choose. This concerns actually two things, one is the question of transferring votes to mandates. All drafts of the law in this matter, which are presented at the moment, are envisaged with the same model of redistribution of votes into mandates. This means that we will take the votes of the winners of the elections that have been submitted to the winners of the elections, we will sum them up at national level, we will divide them by two hundred, which is the number of Members, then we will divide the profits of the parties by this mandate, and so we will clearly get who has how many mandates that the party has and, according to the greatest rest, we will divide the remaining mandates that simply fail to divide. I think that this is the basic principle on which we could also find a consensus, even if it is not yet confirmed, because no one has submitted or proposed anything else yet, and I really would not like to complicate this agreement with any discussion about the factors. That's one thing. The second thing that is somewhat more complicated is the division of mandates into regions where we simply cannot achieve mathematically, at the same time, the full equality of mandates for the regions and the full equality of mandates as regards the representation of voters in the regions, but I would like to stick to the principle that, depending on the number in which the region comes to the electoral elections, so much there will be adequate mandates for this region to represent overall in the Chamber of Deputies. I'll take one turn here. Logically, it is simply not possible that when we have regions of such different sizes, so that if somewhere just 3 per cent of the mandate is sufficient elsewhere, so that 3 per cent of the mandate is sufficient, too, because it is simply fewer voters who would be represented by those 3 per cent. We always have to talk about whole voices, not percentage when we divide the mandates by votes. So it's this thing. Then there is one more thing that has been mentioned here, and that is the stability of the political system. I believe that stability does not create any bonus for winners, but stability arises from the fact that the government will rely not only on the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, but also on the real majority of voters, the real majority of voters. There's no way that some bonus for a winner or something like that would create a situation that the government would actually lean on a minority. In addition, I would like to point out that, given that we have a long-term electoral vote, and it is a consensus that it will be preserved, so all the winners who exceed the electoral vote will receive a reasonable bonus because they will represent relatively more votes than the total number of votes cast. So the bonus is already there, there's no need to look for anything else. After all, repairing this kvora is something optional without which we would survive the electoral law - if we didn't deploy some coalition kvorum, it would be quite functional - but I see it as a certain central element for the coalition, which should simply motivate parties to cooperate, if they are ideologically close, and if it makes sense for them that if they cooperate, they can join the House together, and this is how I would like to build up the kvora. On the other hand, thevorum we had before has demoted from cooperation, as we have experienced many times, has actually caused coalitions to decompose from fear of not overcoming the kvora or to some special-purpose circumvention, when, in turn, one-off electoral bodies were founded, which looked like one party, even though it was de facto a combination of several parties in a block. So if the treaty for those coalitions is going to work, if it's going to work as a central project creating the conditions for cooperation, then I don't think it can be too high, because then we'd be where we were right now. [[12.10 hours]] I'll mention the unstable Belgium that has six parliaments, as far as I know, so it's just an incomparable system. And I would also like to point out that the Senate districts, when we discussed them here last time, were not approved in the Senate. Since then, there has been another amendment to the electoral law to set things straight for the future. There's a general consensus on it. It's, like, the 10th point of this House meeting. I believe we can get to him sometimes because it's the repair I think we need. Otherwise, there will be a threat that, due to the inequality of voter vote in Senate elections, perhaps individual Senate elections will then be challenged, and I would consider that inappropriate. There is also the role of the parties and some possibility of complementing the clubs then chosen according to residual mandates according to the decision, I do not know, the Bureau of that party some evening after the election in a winning high or something like this, I do not consider this an appropriate way. The Parties have fulfilled their role in terms of elections when they have drawn up the ballots and submitted them to the voters. And then it's supposed to be a choice between candidates from the hands of voters. I really don't want to be in a situation where someone gets circled and the party management decides they want him there anyway, or a case like this. And there's one more thing I'd like to mention. The fact that the Bureau will somehow be able to assemble or supplement the club, the clubs, even from experience in this House, is not entirely stable and the MPs are mixing there. So the fact that you're bringing someone to supplement your gender quotas doesn't have to pay in a few months, because your club is going to change something different, that's just what happens. So that sounds like a false argument to me. That's all. Thank you for your attention, I hope I didn't hold up too much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u21	Now, with priority rights, the President of STAN, Mr Farský, is still prepared by Mrs Helena Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are kind of responsible for this as starosta and independent, which is why I would like to join our position. In the elections of 2017 it was shown that the conversion caused Members to sit next to each other in the House, where one was needed for a mandate of 43 000 votes, the other was enough 19 000. In the Constitution, however, a proportional system is declared. We have come so far from the proportional system that we have simply initiated the Constitutional Court with our senators. The Constitutional Court, from my point of view, at the last minute, and maybe just after the last minute, decided, but it made the right decision. He made the right decision from our point of view in that the justice of the individual votes here was so distorted that there is a need to intervene. I would like to thank the folks and others here who have been involved in this, that they have gone the way of the law change in the House that slept here. He slept here for a long time because there was no motivation to discuss it at the time until we had to. Now we have to go to the Constitutional Court. And for our Club of Mayors and Independents, I can say that we're happy that there's a match in three of the four proposals that are circulating differently. There is a consensus in 14 regions, there is a great consensus even in how other mandates will be distributed in the second round. And I think that's an important assumption for us to discuss this law in time. For the Mayors and Independent: If the People's Proposition is a carrier, we will be happy to join the debate, we will be happy - but what I would like to ask for, and therefore my speech will be so short - let us be quick in this, please, because it decides what the Chamber of Deputies will look like after the next elections. And I think it's important to know as soon as possible from the point of view of the candidates and the final candidates. Well, thank you in advance for perhaps constructive work on these electoral laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u23	Now Mrs Helena Válková has the floor and Mr Jan Chvojka will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, it is impossible not to get off. This is indeed, as one of the previous speakers has said, one of the most important laws that we are discussing here, and it is also one of the fundamental human rights, the political right of every citizen of the Czech Republic to vote in free elections within and in accordance with the principles of the rule of law. In Article 18 (2), the following paragraph is added: 1 of our Constitution is perfectly clear that we are to vote in the Chamber of Deputies according to the principles of proportional representation. Therefore, I am here in this dual role as an agent of the Government for human rights, which must follow the procedure, that is, each of the laws that goes through here, critically assess the optics of respect for fundamental human rights and freedoms and then refer as an opinion of this human rights institution to the Office of the Human Rights Commissioner for Human Rights, her opinion on whether or not she corresponds to what she wants is enshrined in the Constitution. And from this point of view, allow me to make a few comments. When I read the Constitutional Court's finding, which - and it was said here repeatedly - surprised us with regard to my timing, I could not help but notice the dissenting position, which in one sentence in the conclusion - is constitutional judges David, Fenyk, Fiala and Suchánek - says the sentence I think we need to recall in this regard, or we might recall: "We believe that in its overall action the current regulation does not embezzle under the guidelines of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Constitution according to which elections to the Chamber of Deputies are held on the basis of electoral law in accordance with the principles of proportional representation.' And now it comes to this: "It can certainly be assumed that these principles will be better suited to another electoral model. " I didn't like the whole 20 years of the model, which, although for the YES movement, was advantageous. So I agree that surely the electoral model could be different. In our opinion, however, this choice is no longer a matter of decision by the Constitutional Court and its current plenary majority, but a matter of political consideration by the democratic legislature. And that is what we are now, and that is why it is appropriate to express these things and open up more variants. When I read the find, I thought, now would be the right moment, and I think I also spontaneously said it for the first time in the media, to establish, respectively, the next and all other elections to lead within one electoral region of the Czech Republic. The reaction was not what I said - because I think it said us more, and not only the members of the YES movement, it was also said from the mouth of the Vice-President of the SPD that originally they considered one electoral region - but the reaction to this was that at the first meeting, which probably will be discussed in more detail by the chair of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution - and she will hardly praise herself, so I would like to commend her at this point, because immediately she called us together, we worked a piece of work before it got to the very political plane of the political parties' leaders, had our expert opinions, but the comments - so there was already clear that consensus, especially from the Senate, because the negotiations were, of course, also taking place at the Senate level, to one of the electoral region, we might be very difficult to look for. So please consider that our position, which has also been expressed in the vote on today's extraordinary meeting, on what we are discussing today, is based on a clear belief that we must not throw our country into constitutional chaos, which could easily happen if we insist as the strongest political party on the fact that it will be only one electoral region under any circumstances, and the result would probably not only appear in the fact that it is not approved, but there would be a fatal delay that could lead to a threat to the holding of elections. Nobody wants that. [[12.20 hours]] At the same time, let me point out at this point, because I have also heard in the media that perhaps such proposals have been made on my part, for example, that, at worst, we would have to adopt a law that would only be for these elections. Of course, better than constitutional chaos to adopt a law that would apply only to these elections, but it would also be a political fiasco for our joint efforts, and that is why, of course, I am not in favour of such an option, and I think that today we have embarked on the safe path that leads to consensus. I also promised my colleagues that I would shorten my speech, but I wanted to highlight here the human rights aspect, the fact that we are acting -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u25	I will ask you to remain calm in the Chamber because the Member cannot speak calmly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u26	I'm coming to the end. We are talking about a law which also embodies the application of fundamental human rights in the area of political rights, the right to a free choice that should be fair, even in its way. And here I would like to say that perhaps the most just of all, when I put these different variations next to each other from this point of view, there would really be one electoral region, because that would be where all the problems would fall, considering, of course, the possible scheming of political parties, as has been said here, within some post-election wins, where it would also not have to get to some region. But I don't want to predict what none of us would want, and it should be politically unacceptable. So from this constitutionally conformal point of view, I'm sure one electoral region would be taken into account precisely because it corresponds to the most just distribution as it is meant by Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. One of our Constitutions. As regards mathematical models for the conversion of votes into mandates into regions, we still have to discuss them, debate them. I think that the constitutionally-legal committee will make a competent statement on this, and then the political decision will, of course, be on someone else. And as far as the loading clause is concerned, I have also noted here in all the debates that have led to the fact that all political parties are willing to compromise here. So I don't see a big problem. I will just ask in conclusion that we enter into this discussion that awaits us on Tuesday afternoon, with our heads open, minds open and discuss all the options, then they decided and then they went together to the goal, which means having an electoral law here by the end of May this year, which will last not only this parliamentary term, but maybe another twenty parliamentary periods. It's an uncompromising wish, but only uncompromising wishes lead to desired goals, at least I still think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u27	Now I'll read the apology. Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec apologizes today 4. 3. for work reasons. Mr. Jan Chvojka will now appear. I don't see him, so Mr. Patrik Nacher will perform. Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be ready. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u28	Mr Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin, I would like to emphasise one thing here. Here it is repeated such a mischief that sometimes Members with priority rights come forward and, in the event of a hurry, all other Members have to cut it awfully short. And that's been repeated here for several times. That means they're gonna tell you theirs, and the rest of us are just here to vote somehow. I strongly disagree with this approach. I want to say my own, some point of view, because I'm probably one of the few memoirs here, even in a different role. I'm sure I don't want to be obsessing and stalling, so let's just make sure we're here until we discuss this, which could be, like, 13.30, 13.45, 14.30, max. But in order for the MPs to come to me here and say, "Short it short," and there were four-hour debates yesterday on other laws, and it didn't matter, I really consider it unfair when it's done repeatedly. So let us make a deal, I will ask the President to call on the Members gradually, so that we can say that we will be here until we discuss this. I'm sure we'll be fine without lunch, it's an important standard, so there's no shadow of suspicion that instead of five minutes talking ten, there's some way you want to build it. I don't know how to make this more explicit. That's a point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u29	Please, Mr. Ambassador, I have information that there's a deal, so I wanted to check it out before 1:00 p.m., but I can now say we're gonna make it. There's an interpelation at 2:30, so we'll continue after 13:00. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u30	Thank you, so that's the answer. I'm not going to artificially prolong it, but don't ask me to artificially shorten it again. I'm going to allow the context of what we're discussing here, from two angles, which are resonating here. The first is what we should discuss here, what the Senate has returned to us, or what it has not canceled or what it has canceled, and the second is the permanent mantra, the conversion of voters into the mandate for the ANO movement in 2017. It's all over the place. Therefore, allow me the historical context to answer both, because I think that is essential. The historic branch is important because the electoral law was established here in 2000. Its parts were directed against certain subjects, then the four-wheelers, whose membership was, by the way, KDU-ČSL, which is evident from the calculation for the coalitions, if you look at it, for the entrance. That ends with exactly four times, five, ten, fifteen, twenty. Five-calibers, six-calibers, no one cared about them at the time. Even so, and a constitutional complaint was filed - I was here at the time as a spokesperson, not as a politician, but let's say an official when I put it this way, but I was there, so I have a historical memory - and then the Constitutional Court said that it may work purposefully, but it is not unconstitutional. He left this behind. As a man who honors - may not agree, but honors - the decision of the court, I see it as forever. It's not possible to decide the same thing a second time. That's why a politician can afford to comment on it, because it was just like that once, because I didn't agree with it, because it was really purposeful - the causality was that a coalition was first formed, then the electoral law arose, while today's state is that there is an electoral law and all parties can adjust permanently for 20 years. So it's the other way around. That's when the Constitutional Court didn't meet. He canceled, I remind you, 35 electoral circuits - 35 electoral circuits were in the design at the time. He canceled, and that would really mean that in the Chamber of Deputies they are elected by the majority system, not quite. He canceled. That means logically he should cancel all the majority elements for me, he only canceled the 35. Nor did he abolish d, who was before the Constitutional Court six years later, when I remember that from the Green Party, which won 9.5% in the Liberec Region, no MP got here, so the Hondt explicitly dealt with it, the Constitutional Court did not cancel it. That means it's been going on for the last 20 years, and suddenly the same thing has been decided differently. Why is that important? 'Cause unfortunately, that's what politics is all about. Under this electoral system, we are going to five elections to the Chamber of Deputies: 2002, 2006, 2010, 2013 and 2017. [[12.30 hours]] And now I'm getting to that one thing. The calculation that the ANO movement has 78 Members should have 63, so colleagues, why don't you do it backwards in each election? I mean, we've been going for the last 20 years by the election! And in government over the last 20 years, the ODS, the ČSSD, the TOP 09, the KDU-ČSL, the Green Party. And they were all there because the big party had some of this bonus to calculate. And it makes me feel like, don't be mad at me that as long as the right guys were winning, these calculations and complaints weren't. So just say it fair and square. After 2002, who had the biggest calculation? After 2006? After 2010? After 2013? And not only will I take 2017 and say: YES has won 29 per cent, but the conversion to Members is 39 per cent, but that is unfair. Yes, it's unfair, and I said it back in 2000. But be fair, say the injustice historically after every election. Because the way it really works, the bad guys have won now, we're gonna punish them and change the electoral system. Twenty years didn't matter to the Constitutional Court, all of a sudden, yes. So much for one turn, and this is still repeating the thesis, which is factually true, but politically unfair. Don't be mad at me. What's the next step? And that is for the political debate that, in fact, in this way, Members are as if above-people, or, in general, legislators - Members, senators - because they can turn to the Constitutional Court repeatedly twice in the same way, unlike ordinary citizens, which the citizen cannot. When this possibility of a constitutional complaint runs out, the appeal to the Constitutional Court, the matter is over for good. And we're in this situation right now. And now the other thing I brought up in the beginning. Let's just deal with what the Constitutional Court hasn't canceled. And I don't think that's a good attitude either, because the Constitutional Court isn't the third chamber. It's not. It's not like the Constitutional Court is gonna cancel two paragraphs, and we're just gonna do the two paragraphs. No. It's not like the Senate is gonna bring it back here, and we're either gonna take it or we're not, and we're gonna vote here either by simple majority or 101, as we know it. He's gonna pay us back and we're gonna look at it globally. If you really have the care and it bothers you and it bothers you, then let's take it from the grunt and not just say: here are the two paragraphs. So actually, de facto, the Constitutional Court is, from this point of view, the third chamber, because we're not supposed to do anything else. And it's not our fault that there's less time for this either. I read that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Court was able to write those two paragraphs in 48 minutes. I find that incredible. [[Responses from the newsstand.]] I mean the rapporteur not here, but the rapporteur of the Constitutional Court. 48 minutes! But at the same time, it's been there for 3.5 years! And now, in the time of the coronavirus, when we're having an emergency meeting on coronavirus, we're going to be dealing with what it took three and a half years to decide this thing. And now in the instinct of self-preservation, we're just going to put in those two sections. I don't like this attitude, don't be mad at me, colleagues. And that's why I'm consistent with what I said back then, what I'm saying now: if we really mean it, let's end up in one constituency. That's perfectly understandable, clear, transparent. It's the exact opposite of how they vote for the Senate, where they vote in 81 places, the senate districts. That's exactly what he's gonna balance out. Just the way my honored colleague Marek Výborný explained the system of calculation and conversion, so it's complicated. These people don't understand. Here's the rest, here we add, here we put it on national level, then we split it up again. You know, by definition, who can do a little math, that d'Hondt's divisor was just one thing. But the fact that we have the Central Bohemia district, which has 26 Members, and the Karlovy Vary district, which has five, from the definition of the matter, will always be a majority element in those small regions. It's obvious. How are you going to paint it here? Six subjects get 10 percent, so the sixth one doesn't get out of Karlovy Vary. And if he does, then he has to take the mandate somewhere else and there will be injustice somewhere else. This means that for me - here were the terms: equality of votes, justice, transparency. If that's what we really mean, and it's not supposed to be some kind of election engineering, then let's just go into that one constituency. There's a clear equality of votes, it's pre-calculable. And the leftovers that would be distributed are just those entities that can't go through more than 5%. And it's pretty clear, there's this justice, and there's this transparency that everyone can actually do the math. And not to take the form: We don't need one constituency right now, but maybe we could use it after the next election, when we might have another leader, and so on. So really, if we're serious about this in this way and honestly, let's do what was supposed to be done in 2000, 2001. So much for one constituency. If I had any more details, I'd say second reading. Thank you for your attention, for your patience, and I believe we'll just finish up here, we'll be here until we discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u31	Now I have three factual points here. First of all, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. Mrs Jana Mračková will be ready. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, I certainly do not want to get involved in the constitutional debate, but I have been in the upper chamber of Parliament, I am in this lower chamber, and I can therefore consider myself almost a doyenku of Parliament. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I say almost, luckily, luckily. Yes. But I said doyenku, not doyena. And that's why I have to make this remark. Do you know what the greatest magic of democracy is? I am deeply convinced, and my experience says that the greatest magic of democracy is that every purposefulness will sooner or later turn against its designer. Patrik Nacher here named the government rotation from right to left, left to right. I'm saying this so we can really have that in mind. And if at this point we are changing the electoral law to rely on what the experts, the Constitutional Commission, constitutional lawyers tell us, and we didn't count, simply to try to make it as fair as possible to the voters, to the citizens, as best as possible for democracy in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u33	Another factual point - Mrs Jana Mračková and Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. honourable Members, I would also like to comment on this draft electoral law. I would like to say first of all with a point of fact that you have all certainly followed the press conference that Mr Rychetský and, above all, Mr Filip have accompanied, where it has just been said that this is unconstitutional and bad for several reasons. That one reason, in my opinion, at the moment and in the bill's proposal, was that, where appropriate, smaller parties were handicapped in quotation marks, because when the mandate was converted, some parties had to win far more voters. But only at the press conference was it more and more, why the Karlovy Vary Region, why in the Karlovy Vary Region, if any candidate gets 10, 11 percent of the vote, does not get a mandate. Why should the weight in the Karlovy Vary Region be much smaller in terms of the voter than in another region? [[12.40 hours]] In my opinion, as I see all these proposals at the moment, if one constituency is not set, it will never be fixed. It's never gonna be okay! And I'm convinced that if you have any mechanisms and there are those residual voices, it'll never... it'll always end up on those little parts. So to straighten out the other, what was constantly tilting there, and what was said there from the mouth of Constitutional Judge Jan Filip, the only way to correct that is by being one constituency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u35	As a final point of fact, I have Mr Vojtěch Munzar here and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I want to respond with a factual remark, by your means, to a colleague, Patrik Nacher, who, in a specific way, defended the emergence of one constituency. I want to say my point of view. I'm not an expert on constitutional law, but I take it from a different point of view. Each of us represents some region where we know the environment, we know the problems of these people, we know what we're dealing with. What is being dealt with in Prague is otherwise viewed by people in Central Bohemia, otherwise people in the Moravian-Silesian Region are looking at it. If the proposal to create one electoral region prevails, it is not ensured that each region will have its own representative. And it is a way for us to separate ourselves in this Chamber of Deputies even further from the lives of our citizens in our regions. In fact, the regionality of Members is irreplaceable, because we are not only deciding on some ideas here, but also in our experience, according to what we know, what is troubling people in our cities, in our regions. The promotion of one constituency goes directly against us being tied up with our people and breathing for our region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u37	Mr Munzar's speech has brought down three factual points, so Mrs Valachová will have to wait. So in order: Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal, then Mr Marek Výborný and Mr Patrik Nacher. Vice-President has the floor, two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u38	Thank you for the floor. I was not torn by my previous speaker, but by the previous previous speaker, Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková, because I have to respond to the argument of the Karlovy Vary Region. If a county is three times smaller than another county, we don't compete for percentages in elections, we compete for votes. If someone gets three times less votes than they get in another county, logically, they get three times less mandates than they do in that other region. That seems obvious to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u39	Now, Mr Marek Výborný, Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I also wanted to respond, through you, to Mrs Vildumetzová's colleague Mračková. My colleague Nacher is right about one thing. Indeed, the most just is the one-circuit electoral system, but from my point of view - and I do not agree with my colleague Nacher, nor with my colleague Mračková Vildumetzová, and I think the previous speaker said so - the great value of the fact that the Member is connected with his region, with his voters, with the problems of a region that are very specific and are different in Karlovy Vary, another in the Pardubice Region, is something that I think we should also respect and throw behind our heads. But most importantly, my colleague, through Mr President, it is not true that if you have one district, you will have members from Karlovy Vary. What does that mean? This means that who will be a Member will be decided by the chairman of the party or by an institution that will draw up a candidate. And where do you know that the candidate from Karlovy Vary will be in an optional position? You don't have one at all. So it is not true that if one circuit is represented, all regions will be represented. It just doesn't work that way. And I think that we really should end the debate on the number of regions, because there was a consensus on some of the debates and constitutional lawyers. When someone called here to say that we have - I think President Vondráček said so - to debate with experts, constitutional lawyers, political scientists, I think there was a consensus that it was not reasonable to open this issue at the moment and to open this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u41	Mr Patrik Nacher will now speak, we are still in factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. I have to respond to my colleague Vojtěch Munzar. I understand the regional representation, as a Prague MP, I often come across various proposals around taxi drivers, Airbnb and so on, so I feel it very sensitively. However, I don't think it's a problem with that candidate. That's where responsibility is passed on to the political entity, and only a political subject suicidal would put in only the people of the center, there wouldn't be people from individual regions. Notaben, that's how it works today. So let's say how it works: if someone is significant, nationwide, but he's from Prague, he's a leader somewhere in some county, because the subject sends him there. That's right. Does that mean what kind of representation is that? By the way, this is even happening in the Senate, where national figures are running, not where they live their whole lives. I'm not going to name it here, but I'm sure you know that. That means this isn't true. That's not true. It's not true. And while we're here, unfortunately, the regional representation, for example, from the point of view of our Prague MPs, I'm also looking at my colleague Helena Válková - we often get a lot of cuts from the rest here, that we're dealing with a matter that only concerns Prague, while we're at it. But there's no other way to deal with her than by changing the law. So the answer that one constituency would mean a break in contact with those regions isn't true. It's about the responsibility of the political entity to build it evenly, I don't know: the first 14, the second 14 is 15 to 28 etc. And it's the responsibility of those political subjects. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u43	Now, the last point of fact - Mrs Jana Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I certainly have to respond to Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Pikal, because I do not want to say that he says things here that he probably, most likely, does not understand at all, because he says that the Karlovy Vary Region has far fewer voters, but yet the electoral vote is supposed to be fair and should be the same for everyone in each region, and yet it is not possible for someone in the Karlovy Vary Region to get 11 percent of the votes and not have a mandate, and in another region it was only 4.5 percent and he had a mandate. The vote must have the same weight! And that is what Mr. Constitutional Judge Jan Filip has just pointed out, even if they let the 14 regions be preserved. But if we want it to be fair, and what was said here from the mouth of Mr Marek the Výborný in terms of the fact that the Karlovy Vary Region has five Members today, yes, he may have fewer Members if there was one constituency, but he may also have more. It is about how political parties and the movement of their candidates will be assembled, and we also know for sure that anyone who goes to vote can give a preferential vote. And let's face it, many people mind that if he's a party leader or someone, then why does he want to vote for him in his county, and it's incomprehensible to him why he's not on top of the candidate? So, in my opinion, and in my opinion, if you want it all to be the way the Constitutional Court said it was going to be, so really the fairest, so that the equality of the electoral vote in all regions is the only way, and that's one constituency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u45	I have two more factual points here. Mr Vojtěch Munzar will be the first to speak and Mr Lukáš Černohorský will be prepared. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u46	For the last time, then I won't react so I won't prolong it. However, what Mr Nacher said, by your means, is to leave responsibility for political entities: I really think that would mean further delaying us Members from individual people's issues. And leaving responsibility to political entities is a way out of the electorate's responsibility to party secretariats. I understand that there are parties that are managed directly from above, but there are also parties that have a tradition, and the candidates are formed from below. Maybe that's the big difference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u47	Mr Lukáš Černohorský will now speak on a factual point and Mrs Kateřina Valachová will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mrs Exhejtmance. The Vice-President said that the number of votes or the number of people in the Karlovy Vary Region is not the same as in Moravian-Silesian. That's why, if you get 300,000 or 200,000 or as many votes as Ostrava has, that's practically the Karlovy Vary Region. Therefore, when you vote within the Moravian-Silesian Region, 10 percent of the votes in the Moravian-Silesian Region are significantly more voters than in the Karlovy Vary Region. At this point, the dispute on the basis of which the Constitutional Court decided was that STAN needed twice as many votes for the same number of mandates. The result should be that one Member is elected by the same number of votes. At that point, the Moravian-Silesian Region, of course, will have more Members than, for example, Karlovy Vary. However, if the voters in the Moravian-Silesian Region abandon elections and the Karlovy Vary Region will vote whole, then, of course, they have a chance to get more Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u49	Now two factual points. Mr Patrik Nacher is the first Member to prepare Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u50	Ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to what my colleague Vojtěch Munzar has said. I wouldn't expect him to. That's exactly what politics is. There are better parties that make up a candidate from the bottom, then there are worse ones that make up from the top. That's just what it said here. I had, like, a ten-minute speech, and there I was, like, dividing into better and worse sides -- and the better ones that won by 2013, so the calculation and conversion didn't matter, now it's all wrong. And that's exactly what I'm talking about. My colleague Vojta Munzar, through the President, ran right into it himself. This is not a relevant argument against one circuit, really not. If you want to straighten out the injustice that my colleague here is talking about, just answer the question I had in my original speech. If there are theoretically six subjects in Karlovy Vary that will be at 10 percent, how will you get justice so that even the sixth one will have a mandate when there are only five mandates? You won't reach it, or you'll have to take it from somewhere else, from another region, and you'll damage another region. In other words, it is not mathematically possible for a 5 mandate circuit, 8 mandates, such as the Liberec Region, Pardubice Region, to achieve this purpose of a proportional system. You can just try it from the left, from the right, that's just not possible. It's not. Let's talk about it. He'll probably win 14 counties, but it's not fair. There won't be a proportional system called for by the Constitutional Court, as it has been called for 20 years. It's going to be: we're going to take it down here, we're going to put on weight here. Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u51	Now, on the point of fact, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal and will prepare for the factual Mrs Jana Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. I've arranged my thoughts and I'll try a little easier. The Karlovy Vary Region, when someone makes 10 percent there, accounts for about 0.2 percent of the total number of voters. The number of one mandate should be at least 0.5 per cent of the electorate, because we have 200 seats in the House, so 0.5 per cent is one mandate. That means 10 per cent is not even half the mandate. Therefore, when someone in the Karlovy Vary Region gets 10 percent, it simply does not represent the entire mandate. The claim isn't automatic. I hope I was clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u53	Mrs Jana Mračková, the last de facto so far. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sure I'll respond to Vice President Pikal. He certainly knows that we have a law here that determines that we have 13 local authorities plus the capital city of Prague, which is a municipality in the position of the region. So if you want to change that, I don't understand if this law is valid and effective and we have 13 regions here plus the capital of Prague, then why should a citizen in the Karlovy Vary Region and his voice have a different weight than in another region. Once again, if the voters in the Karlovy Vary Region are set up in this way, and a candidate receives 10, 11 and 12 per cent of the votes, he does not receive the mandate of a Member at that time. And that was what the constitutional judge pointed to. He clearly said that why the voter's voice in the Karlovy Vary Region should have less weight than in another county. And what the other fellow Member from the Czech Pirate Party said here, he pointed to the first problem. The first problem from the point of view of the fact that if the mandate was obtained, it was needed, the smaller parties had to have more votes. But let's face it, even now, at this point, it's gonna set up, we're gonna go to the other scrutinium, and it's gonna be like there's gonna be some votes left, so there's always those little regions - they're not gonna get to them. It just doesn't get to those little parts, 'cause there's always gonna be more leftovers in those larger regions. You might be able to set it up by some mechanism. Again, I say that the most just method would be one electoral region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u55	Mrs Kateřina Valachová will now speak in the general debate and Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u56	Mr President, colleagues, I just want to inform the House, very briefly, as President of the Standing Commission on the Constitution, of its current activities in the field of electoral rules following the abolition of part of the electoral law by the Constitutional Court. Very briefly. The Permanent Commission met very soon after the decision of the Constitutional Court. Members and Members in this Standing Commission for the Constitution remain constitutional rules for a long time and, following the discussions of the experts of their political parties, there was very soon a consensus, a recommendation, a expert recommendation. Having found the Constitutional Court at the time of the abolition of part of the electoral rules in the election year, in addition to the already running election campaign, with regard to the previous steps of the President of the Republic, the experts of the parties on the floor of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution agreed that we should proceed minimally in terms of supplementing the rules. They also agreed to maintain the number of existing regions in view of this situation. Furthermore, they agreed that, in view of taking into account the majority elements, we should not set foot in the case of electoral results and the establishment of governments, so that we should work both with the national calculation of obtaining percentages and the number of mandates, and in the second step on the division towards the regions. The last matter that we discussed was the question of closing the coalition clause. That is where most political parties recommended to return roughly to the conditions that existed before the Constitutional Court now abolished, and that is clause 7, 9, 11. It can be said that he also had an expert opinion that we should close the threshold of these clauses to 10 per cent. So much for the meeting of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. We are, of course, with colleagues, because we are ready to sit down and discuss this bill of electoral rules that we are discussing to this end. As chairman, I will propose this to the commandment of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u57	Mr Marek Benda will now appear and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u58	Mr Vice-President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen, I signed up at 11.05, I was the second to join the debate, it is 12.57. I do not agree with both parts of the Constitutional Court's statement. I am following the debate that is going on in this House across the board, and I will prepare a proposal which will be in line with both of these statements of mine, and I hope that it will pass in 14 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u59	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now appear and Mr Jan Jakob will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, I am looking forward to a discussion that has been heated here on the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision on the electoral law to the Chamber of Deputies, about what will actually be further with this finding of the Constitutional Court and how the honourable Chamber of Deputies will take the task of supplementing the missing provisions which the Constitutional Court has removed from the Act on Elections to the Chamber of Deputies, and whether it will go beyond those provisions of Section 48, 49 (1). The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. Article 4 (1) (a) (b), (d) and (d) Article 4 (1) (a) (ii) of CRR 1, 3 to Section 51 of Act 247/1995 Coll., on the elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic and on the amendment and addition of certain other laws, as amended, in the wording repealing the expiry of the date of publication of this finding in the Collection of Laws. [[13.00 hours]] I would like to point out here, and this did not say that the proposal is rejected in the remaining parts of the proposals. This means that the other things that were the subject of the idea at the Constitutional Court were rejected by the Constitutional Court, so it concerns the following paragraphs: 48 to 51. Perhaps in detail there is sometimes a devil's solution, and I see it in the very conclusion formulated by Judge Fiala under Roman VII, where it says: "We do not claim that the current form of the electoral system of proportional representation, which even after the discovery with the file mark Pl. The ÚS 42/2000 retains some elements of the so-called large electoral reform of 2000, which is the form of the ideal, most just, only possible and therefore unchangeable. In its overall action, we only consider that it does not embezzle the guidelines of Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Constitution according to which elections to the Chamber of Deputies are held on the basis of equal voting rights according to the principles of proportional representation. It can certainly be assumed that these principles will be better suited to another electoral model. In our opinion, however, this choice is no longer a matter of decision-making by the Constitutional Court and its current plenary majority, but a matter of political consideration by the democratic legislator" - that is, apparently meant by the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, the Senate as a total Parliament of the Czech Republic. That's how much I wanted to remind you. There is often a question of whether one electoral circuit or several electoral districts or the preservation of the existing 14 electoral districts. I asked myself that question. There's been eight electoral circuits for a long time. Since the 2000 reform, the model of 14 electoral districts has stabilized here, and I think that the correspondence of these electoral districts with self-governing regions has something to do with it and has its own merits. I would like to say that the model of one constituency as we know it from Slovakia, for example, but as the first Czechoslovak Republic knew it, for example, it never fully proved. It has its certain pros, without a doubt, but it also has great disadvantages, because smaller parts of the Republic with a smaller part of the population concentration are always overvoted by larger units with a larger part of the population concentration. The first Czechoslovak Republic tried to compensate for this by various atrocities, national minorities, by supplementing MEPs, but it did not always succeed. Although it was a seven-year term at the time, it never once came to its full end, and there were early elections, because it was full of contradictions and inner roaring that could not secure the stability, which is often called for and argued if the Czech Republic was one constituency. I'm not saying that we can't discuss this and have serious discussions. But I think the most sensible thing would be to stay with a proposal that works with 14 existing models and look for an appropriate solution to the translation of mandates. From this point of view, it seems to me to be quite a helpful proposal, which could be read as an amendment to proposal 649, which we have more or less agreed on - or I feel there is agreement - that it will be the carrier of this legislative change so that we can emerge as quickly as possible from this electoral crisis, which threatens the successful course of elections in the autumn of this year and which is from the Ministry of the Interior's workshop. Here, I think, even if two variants are being worked with, one and the other constituency, so that for us is somehow a viable variant number 1, which works with the maintenance of 14 electoral circuits and which then brings a new coefficient to convert the distribution of mandates. Yes, under certain circumstances, we will not avoid the other crucifixion, but more will be taken into account the equality of individual votes and conversions between the respective electoral regions, and at least partially will be wiped off the big difference that is needed to win votes for one mandate in small electoral regions over the regions above their respective size, meaning, I mean the Central Bohemia Region and, besides, the Karlovy Vary Region, the North Moravian Region, the Zlín Region, or in that sense. So I'm leaning behind the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia to work with a variant of 14 electoral regions, to work with the fact that the treaty will be distinguished, and I leave that to the discussion, the allocation of certain clauses for coalition entry. It's quite, I can see, a consensus that the boundaries should be two, either 7 or 9 %, or 8 % or 10 %. For us there is also a viable option, which will work with the upper limit, which will be 11 per cent, but I think it should be a plan on which we agree. And I think that even the electoral formula, which is precised in the proposal of the Ministry of the Interior, Hareův's quota, is viable and that it is worth seriously talking about then on the board of the constitutional law committee and considering its incorporation into a new form of electoral law. So much for my position on the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u61	I will now ask for Mr Jan Jakob's speech and Mrs Monika Jarošová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I promised my club chairman I'd be brief. And while it's obvious that we're talking about this subject for hours, I'm gonna try. In principle, the finding of the Constitutional Court has two levels. The first one is the closing clause, which is easier to imagine, when he canceled the entry kvorum, which was loaded with 5, 10, 15, 20. Now it's up to us how we're going to set this deal. We, as the TOP 09, think that there should be some raising of the coalition's kvora, but to some reasonable degree. We believe that the way it was set before 2000 is adequate, i.e. 5, 7, 8, 11. But, of course, we're open to discussion. The second plane is therefore a statement that the combination of 14 different regions with the system of conversion, in which case d of Hondtu, did not correspond to the proportional system. There are two ways out that are discussed here, either to change the regions or to change the system of calculation. Both roads are of course legitimate and can fulfil the principles of proportional system, whether it is a variant of one circuit, but also 14 circuits, if the conversion is correctly set, which is also fulfilled in this proposal, because the first is recounted at the level of the whole Republic and then within the profit of individual electoral groups on individual regions. So, with both options, it is possible to achieve a purely proportional distribution of mandates according to the number of votes cast for electoral bodies. We as TOP 09 prefer a variant of 14 circuits because the link to the regions is historically given here, I dare say that we can already talk about certain constitutional customs. [[13.10 hours]] As a third circuit, I would also like to add equality and access to the option of choice in the context of the Constitutional Court's finding. It is no secret that we have long advocated correspondence choices - and I now stress, for the countrymen living abroad. It is certainly a matter that we would like to take into account in the electoral law, although we perceive that there is no great will here in the House, but it would straighten out another injustice. Especially today, people abroad have the opportunity to even vote for a limited one. Let me make two more personal remarks on how this discussion is going. I see here from my colleagues in the YES fight, which is perfectly legitimate, for a variant of one circuit. Yes, it's one of the options. However, in fact, as I hear the opinions of everyone else here, the will is to preserve 14 circuits. Please, let us proceed with the negotiations. Everyone will have to make some concessions in their opinion, and I firmly believe that we will find compromise, consensus. The second point is to the Vice-President Filip. I am sorry, through Mr President, that we have so often responded to him and he, perhaps because we have a completely different view of the world. I'd be defending myself from the Senate's debauchery in this legislative process. The electoral law, whether in the House or in the Senate, must be approved by the two chambers of Parliament in the same wording. It can't be said that if we approve the electoral law to the House, don't let the Senate talk too much about it. In the Constitution, of course, it is on purpose this way so that, on the contrary, the chambers are balanced so that one of them cannot set it up for its own elections, regardless of constitutional balance and constitutional principles. So I would also like to call on my fellow Members from the Senate to continue and perhaps even more intensively involved in these other negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u63	As the last application - Mrs Monika Jarošová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u64	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. We are currently discussing at first reading the amendment of the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic. None of the citizens would have missed the fact that the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic significantly intervened in the current election campaign, when eight months before the election, it changed the rules introduced from the floor even though the proposal for a review of the electoral law lay at the Constitutional Court for over three years. This will significantly change the conversion of votes, which weakens the winner of the elections, repealing the provisions on electoral coalitions. And there's a lot more of these changes. If anyone is cheering about it, then I say that this will only lead to more fragmentation of the forces represented in the Chamber of Deputies and even more disgusting our citizens from politics. If there is already such a problem to find agreement over the necessary laws, and let us face it - so many obstructions and extraordinary meetings this House does not remember, it has never been, as it is now in the presence of nine entities - so with increasing the number of parties by another, and this really can happen, the problem will increase. The way I see it, an emergency meeting is taking place next few hours of emergency meetings, longer if it's being broadcast live. And the laws to help our citizens are being pushed into the background many times. Just take how many unnegotiated laws we have here. But now it is necessary to take the Constitutional Court's decision as a fact and I wish that together we find the best possible solution, which will be a compromise, in accordance with the Constitutional Court. Otherwise, the date of the autumn elections would be seriously threatened and the stability of the political scene would be threatened, and I'm sure none of us want that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u65	I will now look around to see if anyone else has an interest in speaking in the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Designer and rapporteur? The designer did, and the rapporteur did. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you all for a stimulating debate. I think that's part of it. It is indeed a key standard for the next elections that await us. Surely the arguments that are completely legitimate and the views on this need to be taken not only in connection with the Constitutional Court's finding, but also in the subject of possible further considerations regarding the electoral districts to be heard here. We are on Parliament's soil, so that is correct. I would also like to ask for these other debates so that we may not return to the substance of the Constitutional Court's finding. It has been said repeatedly that we respect it, so let's respect it, even that it was given in some context and at some time. By the way, there might be an argument here that we, too, have some butter on our heads, because if we were to deal with this House press in 2019, we could have everything figured out, and at this point we wouldn't have to deal with the effects of the Constitutional Court ruling here at all. If it has been said that there will be no expert debate, no discussion, then I think it is also not entirely true, because there have been several seminars and round tables attended by genuinely leading experts on constitutional law and political scientists. Finally, the secretaries of the two constitutional committees, both Mr. Professor Wintr and Professor Kysela in the Senate, are one of the constitutional lawyers who specialize in electoral systems, so I don't really think we're passing away. So much for me, then. What I wouldn't recommend is that a respected colleague here, Patrik Nacher, spoke of the fact that we should rework the law from the bottom. Of course, it's a legitimate view, we have the right to do so, but if it doesn't crash the whole thing and we're going to have a result that, as has been said repeatedly here, political agreement, we're not really going to come to this agreement, with all due respect, on the floor of the constitutionally-legal committee, probably the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, but there has to be a political agreement here. The Committees and the Commission must then monitor the legislative solution in such a way that it is flawless. But I believe that the political agreement here will take place in the order of days so that we can make this process as quickly as possible. Thank you for your support that we will now move this press to the land of the Permanent Commission for the Constitution and the Constitutional Legal Committee, while reminding me of my proposed reduction of the deadline for discussion to 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u67	Now, therefore, because the rapporteur is not interested in the final word, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I'm gonna call the MP's gong. Does anyone knock so timidly, or do I hear it wrong? Yeah, yeah, so bold. So I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. [[13.20 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? [[Unintelligible voices from the diaper.]] It's a guarantee now. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 90 Members registered, for 88, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? Mrs Válková and Mrs Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u68	Allow me, even from the point of view of what has been repeatedly said here, to act more intensively and to prepare this agreement precisely in order to meet the deadline for the end of May with the Senate, and I think it is appropriate that we, as the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, have this opportunity, and I can certainly promise for all its members that we will be very, very fast and prompt. We're not interested in stalling, we're interested in speeding it up. So I'm proposing a commandment to the Permanent Commission for the Constitution, because if both of these bodies - of course, the Guarantee Committee plus the Permanent Commission - are in agreement, I think the success in the Senate is not guaranteed, but it is highly probable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u69	Next, Mrs Mračková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. I would ask for a commandment to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u71	Public administration and - [[Mr Stanjure is reporting.]] Yes, Chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u72	Well, if we're gonna torpedo and stall, let's have some more health, social, budget, economic and all that. Political negotiations are supposed to be held, no constitutional experts are gonna make that deal, really. Let's leave it at the C.E.P., nothing else, 'cause we're running out of time. The more negotiations, the more resolutions of other institutions, the more complicated it becomes. It's a normal obstruction, nothing else. We'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-04-ps2017-089-01-001-001.u73	Does anyone else have a motion for a commandment to other committees to discuss? I don't see any, so we'll take the vote. First of all, Mrs Válková's proposal to deal with this press is the Permanent Commission on the Constitution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 90 Members signed in, for 22, against 19. The motion was denied. The second proposal is Mrs Mračková's proposal to address this proposal by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 91 Members signed in, for 11, against 23. The motion was denied. Then we have one last vote. The rapporteur suggested that we reduce the negotiation period to 20 days. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number six, 91 Members signed in for 86, against none. The motion was accepted. I'm done with the first reading of this proposal. Enjoy your meal and the meeting will continue at 14.30 hours. We have exhausted the agenda for this meeting and the 87th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 14.30 hours.
