ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u1	7. The draft law amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on Supported Energy Resources and on Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /German Press 870/8/ - Returned by the Senate Please note that we have interrupted this item on Tuesday, 14 September of this year in the debate. I would remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 870/9. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiffs of the Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, and I welcome Senator Petr Šilar again. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. On 14 September, Mr Leo Luzar's speech was suspended, so I am giving you, Mr Member, once again the floor so that you can continue. Mr. Adamec reporting from the scene, I have two factual points here. Let me just remind you, it's probably from last time, or I don't know, Olga Richterová and Jan Zahradník, but that's after the interrupted performance. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly to follow up on my speech yesterday, but I will already be relevant to the Senate proposal. I don't think I need to repeat the education I have done in the preparation of this material, nor will I delay the course of today. This amendment 870 took place in a large debate in the Chamber of Deputies mainly on the Economic Committee. Various seminars have been organised, various debates on output have been held, and I consider what the Chamber of Deputies has approved to be a pretty good compromise. Nobody's 100% satisfied, but I guess everything that's important has been thought of. All the fields that are named here within the POZE had a chance, they took advantage of that chance and tried to put in this proposal what would help this industry move forward. What happened in the Senate is all the more regrettable because I expected the Senate to make minimum adjustments, even for things that we in the House weren't so sure about, even in order to make it a better interpretation, to make it easier to understand within the law. But what came back from the Senate as press 870, I consider as a new practice maybe the Senate, but rather the Ministry, because the Ministry would have said a complex amendment which he failed to prepare within the House or was criticized within the House, and submitted it to the senators to incorporate it into this law. I'm talking about the transfer of RED II. It is a problem, because then why should the House discuss these laws when, in fact, a major amendment of this law is already coming from the Senate, where we cannot modify it in any way, simply reject it or approve it? The legislator, when he edited the Constitution and laid down the procedure for the adoption of laws, did not, in my opinion, count on the Senate to be the first legislature, even if it had the option, but the law in this case is not designed to make such a large change. Therefore, when I look at the information that we received from the Senate to this Senate press under number 870 in our country, I am wondering questions - whether the senators really believe that this is only a technical part of the transposition of the RED II directive. I am not convinced of this, because we had quite an extensive and large debate on this matter within the Economic Committee, and for example, the debate on the incorporation of biofuels, which was a topic from the right corner of the House, which was quite energetic there, which I personally added to, that I did not like, the level that was there that got there from the other side. Because there's no more talking about mixing the individual, but in the complex. In other words, the ministry has achieved its own, it will mix massively in the Czech Republic, Europe will applaud, but the legislators, at least those sitting in the House, have been hugged. I consider this to be a mistake or, if I do not want to use, a trick that the Ministry has succeeded in doing in this matter. Here I would perhaps also help myself by using the expression "we will not kneel before the European Union" by using the expression "we will not kneel before the European Union," so the senators here have managed to prepare the proposal so that we will actually " lie down before the European Union" because, within the so-called technical transposition, they have ruled out the decision of the local Parliament, the domestic Parliament on this matter and the possibility of determining whether or not we really want to mix, and especially in what proportion we want or do not want to mix, what quality biofuels we want or do not want to mix, whether we want simple, first levels, rape and others, or the other and subsequent, or synthetic. No, it provided for an obligation for all producers up to a certain year that they had to. I don't think that's right, and this is a pretty serious problem that came up. [[16.00 hours]] That is why I think the original House version has been better and will allow the Ministry to prepare further amendments as RED III approaches and we will have to deal with it. And it's not like we're gonna adopt a law now, and then maybe in three, in four... No, I think it's already time for the Ministry to get ready with an amendment to the Energy Act, which will have to deal with the current issues. Therefore, I do not like the proposal that comes from the Senate, which does not allow us to decide on the purely Czech and national interests of Czech motorists, Czech consumers, but forces us to do this translation, and yet this style. So, if we were to vote for the Senate, frankly, I say that we are lying down in front of the European Union, we are not even kneeling. We lie before her and I consider this to be wrong, because we should be able to hear from each other and we should say what we consider to be good and beneficial in the future for the Czech motorist from this point of view, and possibly what fuels we prefer to send a signal to industry, so that he knows which biofuels to focus on, and whether it is worth producing synthetic fuels in the Czech Republic, whether the sales will be here and so on. This should be the signal we should send. Unfortunately, the Senate's back is totally taking this away, and it's getting into line with a clear directive that we're even gonna agree to. It is a serious reservation, which is why I cannot agree with the Senate's return like this, and I say that we cannot support it for the KSČM club because the House has indeed been hugged here and its will expressed, for example, by the vote of the Economic Committee, for example, by the vote of this House. Something similar concerns the reason why we are actually convinced that it is necessary to adopt the Senate version. This is a support for the heat workers, when there is some uncertainty, the uncertainty that has already been in the House version. Yet there is support, I want to point out, and it is only in the interpretation part where it is not explicitly established, but it is there. So this support exists there, only it is not explicitly stated, but it is not the fault of us legislators, it is the error of the petitioner and perhaps legal interpretation, or perhaps rather the procedure under the decrees, because this determines not the House by law, but it determines the government by its decision, and therefore use this as an argument that we must accept the Senate, I consider it wrong, because here we would take over the legal role of the government and, above all, responsibility for that. And the government might say, "We nothing, we musicians, decided by the MPs." That's the second mistake I'm seeing in the preface that's here and for which we're convinced that the Senate version is better. It's not better! Yes, he can sort of solve some problems, but he's certainly not better. And I draw attention to this: what the prime minister did within those fuels, within the framework of the RED II, I consider circumvention of the House. It is not right and I do not like it, which is why I cannot vote for it, because it would be a precedent, that the great amendment of the law that we are going to adopt here will be completely changed in the Senate, and we do not have the opportunity as Members to respond to it anymore. It's not the right procedure. We can reject this - that is what I call you not to support the Senate version, because right here this procedure is the only one that we can apply, and we will go back to the version of the House that has its shortcomings, we understand, but it is balanced, but it mainly expresses the opinion of all those who took part in the debate and vote before we sent it to the Senate. And that's more important to me, because we've been working on it a lot, and we've really been discussing it a lot. Therefore, I am clearly declaring to the KSČM that we are ready to support the House version. We supported her before she went to the Senate, we will support her now, and our votes here will be available, but we simply cannot agree with what happened in the Senate. And that's what I'd like to say to you here today. We just don't want to kneel down, we don't want to lay our backs on what has been prepared to suit the European Union, even if it is an important subject, but it simply cannot be done without discussion. And here, this discussion only means yes or no to us, and that's why we're saying no. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u3	Thank you, honourable Member. I have here one application from the place and two factual points before that. Mrs Richterová, if she is still interested, is she registered for a factual point? He's not interested. Mr. Zahradník? Mr. Zahradník is approaching the microphone. I'll read the note by the time he gets here. Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes from 16 o'clock to the end of the day for health reasons and apologises to Mrs Kovářová from 14.30 to 17 o'clock for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my point of fact, I would like to comment on yesterday's speech by Mr Luzar, in which he mentioned the negotiations of the coal commission. And here I must say that the coal commission approved a significant majority of its members' recommendation to the government to end the use of coal in the Czech Republic in 2038. The government did not accept this recommendation, but only took note of the exit from the coal commission's negotiations, I consider the failure of the Prime Minister. He seems to have some internal opposition in the government, made up of some kind of green world opinion. Here I have to say, if we end up with coal in one of those recommended terms that are now being said, like 2030 or 2033, it's going to be a great danger to our energy security. Not only would this mean an increase in electricity prices, but also that electricity might not be available at all during some periods of the year, so we would expose ourselves to a potential lack of energy, i.e. energy poverty. Of course, the gas replacement is mentioned from the right to the left, that's clear, but let's remember that in a year and a half, the price of gas has increased to ten times, so even the gas doesn't have to be saved. I would therefore recommend that we really return to the problem of ending coal, and I believe that the coal commission, which will continue its work by the end of the year, will confirm its opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u5	Thank you and Mr Adamec is now registered. Once again, before I give him my word, I will introduce the House with a note. Mr Kolovratník apologizes today from 17:00 to the end of the day for personal reasons and on Thursdays and Fridays for all working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to say a few words to discuss this return from the Senate. I listened well to my colleague Luzar last night, and I must say that I will be glad when the election is over, because some of the statements that have fallen here have really moved me. dneska he continued to do so, when he was more or less pushing the Senate around, that he was acting strangely in some way in the system. Unlike him, I've been a senator for six years, and I have to say, the Senate is doing exactly the right thing. We have two chambers of Parliament. The discussion took place here in the House, and I assume that the details were also held in the Senate, and the senators have the right to return the bill to us in the form in which they see fit. And it's not true that this discussion isn't going on. The fact that we're supposed to choose between a bad proposal and a worse proposal today is what we're used to. That's just the way it is, that's the way it exists, because unfortunately, that's the way it is. We are part of the European community and we have to deal with it in some way. What interested me yesterday: the solar barons, that they were stealing the money or taking it somewhere in the Bahamas. Please, that's exactly what you're not supposed to say. That's exactly why we're assigning a group of entrepreneurs to whom we call thieves, and the reality is somewhere else! Parliament has approved how to buy out the electricity! The parliament of the day! And whoever voted, let everyone compare that with their conscience. I was against it at the time in the Senate, but the reality is that the legislation at the time simply allowed such behavior. Today we know that it wasn't right, but that was when other people who were sitting here decided it, and unfortunately, they pushed for it. [[16.10 hours]] It's a warning, it's a memento for the future, because I think the question of energy prices will also be the basis of how quickly Green Deal is going to go into the world, because here it was going to go up. And I'm just gonna say one of those basic things. I think the emission allowances as a decarbonisation or pressure tool for decarbonization of companies work poorly because the emission allowances started at EUR 5 per tonne, today they are at 60 and prices will rise. This is the problem that increases the price of energy from conventional sources, and it is not just about power plants, it is also about businesses and it is about heating plants that are not able to pay these prices anymore, and the price is rising. And we'll be here in the coming months and years deciding how quickly Green Deal is going to come into the world. It is true that we are talking about the coal commission here, the end of coal, but please, the European Commission is making it smart. She's got the money for that right now, and with the subsidies, she's pushing the business sector to switch to carbon-free energy, and they're going to determine when the coal ends, not us. Today you have banks that will no longer give you credit for your business plan unless carbon-free energy is guaranteed. Let us put it this way: we are dealing with something that is affected by decisions from Brussels, and we have to deal with it, because our goal is that our citizens are not subjected to enormous pressure on huge energy payments. That's reality. Let's just say that we're going to make everything out of the windbreakers, the solars and all that stuff, and that all of a sudden they're going to go cheerfully to the gas, which, by the way, I would say, is a critical raw material depending on where it comes from and where we take it, at what prices we take it, so all of this is going to have a big impact on how this situation is going to go on. It's just a reaction to what happened here. And then I'd like to say one more thing. You know, we could have saved this item here at the House plenary if they had respected the agreement made by the presidents of the MPs. Unfortunately, it didn't. Something else has been approved here, and I really think we are before the decision which version will be more beneficial for both our citizens and the entrepreneurs who work in this field. We have come to the conclusion that we have not voted - and perhaps from that point of view, that some of our comments have not been answered just at the meeting of the Economic Committee and the MPs - so we have decided that we are ultimately seeing as a minor issue in the Senate version. I thank the senators for putting it at least this way, and I don't blame them at all, and we will support the Senate version. Thank you for your attention, but let us really argue as it is, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-011-007.u7	Thank you. And that was the last and only application for a debate at the moment, so if no one else is reporting, and I don't see anybody, I'm ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? I can't see. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I've called my colleagues to the O.R. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees..' There is a request for withdrawal, I will sign all of you out, I ask the arrivals to sign in, and I will read again the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 165/2012 Coll., on supported sources of energy and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 870/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House press 870/9.' I can still see that Members are coming, so I will wait a little longer with the vote. Please log in with your cards again. I still see Members coming. I believe that everyone who wants to be in the hall is already in the hall. I have read the motion for a resolution, so I think it is possible to initiate the vote. Initiating vote. I said, who's for the Senate version? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 83, 131 Members and Members are hereby voted in favour of 90, against 1, and the proposal has therefore been adopted. If there aren't any translations - I don't see anything like that. I am of the opinion that we have adopted the bill approved by the Senate. Thank you, that concludes this point. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you, Mr. Minister, and we'll move on, which is point number
