ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u1	538. Proposal for sanctions against Belarus following a Sunday act of state terrorism against a civil aircraft I beg you to take the floor... originally the appellant of this point was Jana Černochová, who is not present, so that instead the applicant's representative, Mr Marian Jurečka, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. [[Agreed.]] Mr. plaintiff, you have the floor. I'm turning on the mike, that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, colleagues, we have asked for this point to be included in order for the Chamber of Deputies to send a clear message to the unprecedented event that has now occurred on the weekend in the case of an ordinary commercial civilian flight by Ryanair, which was forced to land in Minsk, Belarus, by maneuvering military fighters with justification and suspicion that there is a bomb on board that aircraft. Subsequently, a particular passenger with his girlfriend, a journalist who was critical of the Lukašenkův regime, was detained. And these are the things to which I think the Czech Republic, with the history of 40 years of totalitarian regime, cannot keep silent. If we have felt the support of our dissidents here for 40 years, people who have been critical of the regime, and we have received support from abroad in the form of different forms, we cannot remain silent today in the case of our friends who are trying to say, say, democratic procedures and building democracy in Belarus, where it is really very difficult today. That is why we have taken the liberty of proposing, on several points - even after consulting representatives of, say, most political parties, across the political spectrum - the form of the resolution on several points. I'll read them here right away and at the beginning, so it's clear which direction we're heading. The point is, this act is clearly condemning, expressing its support to our government in the concrete steps of foreign diplomacy that our government should be doing. I think it is a good thing that the Prime Minister and members of the government, including the Foreign Minister, have also made their views known. They need to be appreciated for that, and we need to thank them for that. But he can't just stay with the comments, they should follow some more steps. We therefore propose this resolution. It has three basic points: "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns the forced landing of Ryanair's aircraft during the flight on a regular line from Athens to Vilnius, bearing the features of the hijacking of a civilian aircraft. - It also requires an independent examination of the entire incident. II. In this context, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to clearly stand up for the initiation of effective European sanctions measures, such as: - a ban on flights by the Belarusian state company Belavia to/from EU countries; - the designation of Belarus airspace as dangerous, leading to the diversion of European airline routes; - the exclusion of Belarus from Interpol, which the Belarusian regime may seek to abuse for political repression and persecution; - the expulsion of declared representatives of the Belarusian intelligence service KDB from the territory of the EU states in the Belarusian Embassy, including the one in Prague, still acting as official representative of the KDB, which is most likely responsible for this act; - imposing targeted economic sanctions on Belarusian businesses, oligarchs and other entrepreneurs who directly cooperate with President Lukašenk and through which they finance their expenses and through which personal enrichment of leading Belarusian officials is taking place. It also calls on the Government of the Republic of Belarus to immediately release Raman Pratasevič and Sofie Sapegová, who were arrested on board the plane. III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic further notes that it is necessary to investigate the possible role of the Russian state in this kidnapping. In the event of proof, it will be necessary to impose sanctions on other representatives of the Russian State, such as official representatives of Russian intelligence services in the territory of the EU State.' I think so much clearly structured resolution by which we express a clear political view and support to those affected by this act, while at the same time seeking adequate solutions and an adequate response across our allies. I will be happy for the substantive, constructive, brief discussion and support of these motions for resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u3	I am opening a general debate in which I do not have a Member registered. Yes, Mr Lipavský. Then the Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip reports. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the Pirates and STAN coalition only I, with one of these initial contributions, will speak, as we agreed at the beginning. I will try to be as brief as possible so that we do not prolong the debate unnecessarily. We have clearly condemned this act of the Belarusian regime, which, in a completely unacceptable way, came for its political dissident in quotation marks. But the problem is that they came for him this way on board a plane that moved between two European countries, between Athens and Lithuania. It was a flight within the Schengen area. In fact, they intervened and undermined the integrity of the European Union and put another less than 200 passengers, most of whom were citizens of European states, citizens of the European Union. It is appropriate to clearly demand the release of Raman Pratasevič and Sofie Sapegová, his girlfriend. They're now being held in detention. And it is also appropriate to make it clear that we can stand up for Lithuania, that we can stand up for our friends in the Baltics, because they are our borders. Nothing prevented it from, for example, flying from Prague to Lithuania and just using a piece of Belarusian airspace. It's a flagrant violation of international law. I welcome the Government's position on this issue as well as the position of the Foreign Minister, which was quite clear. The Czech Republic supported, of course logically, the conclusions of the European Council. The problem is that in Belarus, Alexandr Lukašenko regime has been in control for almost a year, with no support for free elections. Lukašenko faked the election. There are now up to 300,000 arrests for various anti-government protests. For example, Vitold Ašurak died in prison a few days ago. Others are a number of imprisoned journalists, including Marie Kalašnikova. So it is appropriate for the Czech Republic to support a common position on these unacceptable practices and actions, because Europe must be able to protect its citizens, it must defend, it must be able to protect the people it hosts on its territory, and it is unacceptable for us to allow ourselves to have this kind of interference in our internal space. We fully support this position, as read by President Jurečka, and we believe that this support will come from other political parties. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u5	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now appear and I will read an apology - yes, Mr Bžoch still - the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today from 18.30 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the information to decide to support the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which is proposed because I need to answer questions that are perhaps essential. I have information only from the press, from the press that comes from us, in the Federal Republic of Germany and Austria. I deliberately leave out the information we can obtain in Belarus and Russia. If I read the German and Austrian press, it says that on 23 May it was announced that a bomb was placed on board the Irish airline Ryanair flying from Athens to Vilnius. That's the media report, I don't know anything about it. At this point, the plane flew across the territory of Belarus and, according to standard instructions, requested an emergency landing, at the request of the crew. And I think it's probably an important message if it's written by foreign newspapers or servers. The plane landed at the airport in Minsk and before landing was accompanied by a MIC-29 fighter, which is also standard, because if the threat of a bombing was probably consistent with international standards. The question is why it landed in Minsk - probably because it flew through Belarusian territory, although it had to go to Vilnius, to a final station, closer than Minsk. But that's the captain's business. I don't want to get involved. I note that the procedure is therefore in line with international aviation rules, and the fact that the captain of the aircraft has asked for a landing in Minsk is a matter for this airline. The sanctions were proposed only by Poland and Austria and Germany, which is why I drew those reports from the German and Austrian press. And if I don't have an answer to why the captain of the plane asked for a landing in Minsk, I can't vote for something like this that was proposed here, especially not because it wasn't the Belarusian state airline Belavia to which sanctions are to be imposed - I don't understand because it will damage Czech entrepreneurs. The Ryanair company is Irish and it is a low-cost airline used, of course, for holiday and entertainment flights, so I find sanctions against the Belarusian airline at least inappropriate. And since I have studied some things about Raman Pratasevič, I wonder if he has been trained here in the Czech Republic as part of our so-called assistance to the Belarusian opposition, declared by the former Minister of Foreign Affairs, and if it is true that the international arrest warrant is issued for his fascist views. These are all questions that I would like to know the answer to if I were to vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Otherwise, of course, I have no problem answering these questions with anything that we can discuss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u7	Mr. Jaroslav will now appear. So with priority rights Mr Minister, so Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek with priority rights and Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will prepare himself. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u8	Thank you. Good evening to you. I don't want to hold back, I'm gonna step up for myself rather than someone else while I'm watching this case here. I believe that the Czech Republic is a country that should always be heard when international law or rules are violated to be followed in international traffic. In that sense, I understand the first two parts of the resolution, where one condemns the action that has taken place, and I also strongly support the second part of the resolution in which the examination of the whole thing is sought. But I'd just like to point out that, as far as the precise judgment of what happened, I'm also missing information. I'll explain to you what I see the problem. We don't actually know exactly what happened in the air, but it's probably not hard to find out because there's some evidence of what happened between the fighter and the plane that was forced to land. And there's a difference in whether that fighter was threatening to shoot him down, because if anyone uses... The threat of force is an international crime. That means if he was in danger - I don't know, I'm telling you the possibilities I see... The threat of force is an international crime. And we don't know if it happened, or if it was more of a way to force him to land, and they flew themselves because it was safer for them or something. These are things I don't know the answer to, and so far I haven't read that anyone would describe it exactly. And the important thing is - yet there is a world civil aviation organisation that is in charge of international traffic, and I think it should investigate what has happened. Belarus is part of international traffic. There is a relevant international organisation that should investigate what happened and how the aircraft was forced to land, and if it was - I repeat - a threat by force. I'm not saying it's dramatically completely different, it always deserves a conviction, but there's a difference to me whether threats are used by shooting down, or if there's a way that the plane makes pilots fly voluntarily because they think they have a bomb. So I point out that even this detail has meaning if we want to judge it. And then there's one other thing that's pretty important to me, too, and I'm sorry to complicate things for you. Apparently, two Bělorus and four Rus got off the plane as I read it. It's also quite unclear to me who the organizer was. You have to admit that there are more options behind this - it could have been Lukašenko, it could have been a little different. And this is important to me, too. When we think about sanctions, when we think about stepping up against someone, it is good to be clear about who was behind the action and who we are actually affecting. So it seems to me that if we want to say: we will proceed against Belarus, so we should definitely know that this was indeed a decision that was made in Belarus. I don't know, I'm really just telling you this is kind of important to me right now. I'll explain why. I visited Belarus years ago. It was at a time when Belarus and Lukašenko released political prisoners, so he de facto became a state that was quite an example of the release of political prisoners. At that time, I met Lukašenk there, and he basically told me that he wanted him not to get completely under Putin's influence and that Belarus would become as attached as possible to Europe and the European Union, so it was an interesting dialogue for us. You can say that you don't have to believe everything you hear, and the question is, what did Vladimír Putin say, let's say, I'm aware of that. But I was probably not the only one in Europe at the time who thought that dialogue with Belarus, when it released political prisoners and so on, was something that made sense. The aim for Europe at the time was to really allow Belarus to exist as independent as possible. I'm saying this carefully because it's hard to say exactly, but that's what that target might have been. And now I mean that what's happening right now, for example, if we shut down Minsk or if other airlines stop flying there, we're actually going to isolate Belarus. So I'm just saying that we're completely the opposite of where we wanted to be. The original was that we wanted to keep Belarus as a partner of Europe. If we isolate it, if there aren't even lines flying there, then basically the process will go so that it may eventually be a completely integrated regime with Russia, it will take a completely opposite direction than maybe our goal and task. [[18.50 hours]] That's why I'm saying that before we say "we want these steps here, we want these sanctions" if we have a good idea of what we're doing and where we're going. I do not think that this is an easy solution, because since the elections, of course, which have taken place and which have apparently been quite highly manipulated by what we know, this development is obviously wrong and is contrary to where we wished Belarus to move. But what happened today, on the one hand, requires condemnation, precisely because of what I have said - any such violation of international law and rules is a matter for the Czech Republic that must be extremely important to us and must be heard. But the second thing is, let's remember, in the longer term, what we're after. It's gonna be... we're just gonna push Belarus to Russia, you know, we're actually just gonna definitely move it over there, that we're not even gonna take him as a partner, which is hard right now, which I objectively understand. But that's why I'm saying that some information about who, whose instinct it was, whether it was definitely a Belarusian action, or if it was more complicated than that background, and what was the point of the action - because somebody had to assume that this would have some kind of penalty and some kind of impact. We should consider all of this somewhere. I suppose it's better to consider on a foreign committee than here in the Chamber of Deputies. I'm sure you do. So that's where I'm going. I just think - however much the House, it's probably right to condemn it and demand an examination - I think the other things that concern sanctions and who, to me, it would seem that it would require more information to consider exactly where we are moving. All the more so, in Europe it is not easy to achieve this from some consensus and it is traditionally a difficult thing. I'm just pointing out that, actually, as I said, international rules have to be followed, and that any such case should be to remind us to follow them ourselves. Because you may have noticed Mrs Zacharovová's press spokesperson, who promptly took advantage of the 2013 example when it was the United States that had caused the plane back then, I suspect from La Paz, and that was the plane in which Bolivian President Morales flew, so you can quite understand that it was an even different level, it was a presidential plane, and this plane was because European states said that they were closing their airspace, it was forced to land in Vienna because they thought Snowden was on board. I repeat, not a terrorist, but a whistleblower Snowden. So it was an act that was coming back to us, just like I said it might come back to us when the Sulejmání was killed, he was killed in Iran. So I said that these are very dangerous steps in terms of international law, because then we can hear from the Russian spokesperson exactly what we are hearing now, pointing out what happened in 2013, which was also a de facto violation of the rules of international traffic and law. And today we hear it, so I always point it out: this will come back to us. The Czech Republic should never enthusiastically welcome such steps, because these are things that are coming back. We hear it from Lavrov, a constant repetition: Kosovo, Iraq and so on. Now we're hearing the case from 2013. And I said that even what happened in Iran was a thing that could unfortunately come back to us. That is why I say that the Czech Republic should always, but really always state that rules and international law must be respected, and it applies to us as much as it applies to anyone that we feel stands up to us elsewhere than we do and so on. So I agree with the resolution, I think it's right that we accept it, but I'm just pointing out that things aren't so crystal clear and that we don't know exactly what happened. We should have enough information with these sanctions. For my part, I'm telling you that I think that the information... There's an investigation going on. They've got to run a world organization for civilian operations. It should deliver them, and then we should say more precisely who to focus them on, so that we do not do something, which will not be very productive in the long run. Sanctions are not easy if they are to do something. That's easy to roll around. After a while, you'll find out if it made any sense and who it turned out to be. So I repeat, I think that's the right initiative. I understand that we need to get back to you, but I'm pointing out that it's not that clear in the details.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u9	Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will now appear, but I have a point of fact here, sorry, Mr Ondřej Benešík, so two minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. The minister may have been a bit of a mess about the background. Just Belarus and the Russian Federation have integrated air defenses. That means the Kreml must have at least known about it. I don't want to speculate about who gave the order. In any case, quite frankly: in the media, Belarusian dictator Lukašenk simply told him that he had given the order. We can think of what we want, but he just says it himself. Then it compares to landing Morales in Vienna. There was the fact that he was not allowed to fly over. His fighters weren't pulling down, which is a big but big difference, even when he was president. It's just that the comparison isn't exactly accurate, even though we can discuss and think about what we want, but it was just categorically somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u11	Mr Jaroslav Bžoch will now speak. I'll just point out that the day of the hearing is within 21 o'clock, because it's not a law or an international treaty, so we have two more hours, if he's interested. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Belarus is the second time we have to deal with here in a relatively short time. We discussed it for the first time here because of the elections that took place in Belarus, and we see the trend that it is, so it is not going in the direction we would have imagined with the neighbouring EU state. I would like to thank the Minister, because he has mentioned a lot of things that are definitely to be discussed. If any State or EU approaches sanctions, we must take into account who the sanctions will be. If they're clearly targeted at state officials, I think that's right, but we still have to take into account the fact that it might fall on the civil society that we want to support. However, I agree with this resolution. I am pleased that we will comment on this, and our government has expressed it through the mouth of the Prime Minister and by the mouth of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The European Council at its meeting has expressed itself on this, and it is good that we are dealing with this. But I also have to agree with the Minister that all these things also have some concrete implications. I take the resolution as such as a clear appeal to what we imagine and what steps should follow. We do not impose sanctions on this resolution, it is an instrument for how our government should act and what we want to support it. That is why I see the point in this resolution, and it is a good thing that to such a serious thing as that a fighter takes off and escorts a plane to another airport completely because there is a person on board that plane whom the regime wants to arrest, so there is something unimaginable and it should not be repeated. That is why it is good to be heard, which is why it is good to adopt this resolution as the House, with the risks mentioned by the Minister. But let's take it that this resolution is some kind of guide, it's some kind of structure that the government has in its hand to negotiate on. Let's not think of it as a coin of us imposing sanctions around here, of course we won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u13	The Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will now speak with priority and Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Well, I'll do it again, but very briefly. I do not understand my colleague Bžoch very much, because we have one very bad experience in the Czech Republic with the extradition of Mr Nikulin to the United States of America. The infamous former Minister of Justice Pelikán issued it, and the Czech Republic is now facing sanctions for violating his rights. So either we're here to find out really the facts, and I thank the Minister of Culture for supplementing me, because I really don't know the terms, and until I know them, don't be mad at me, so I can't support anything other than being examined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u15	Now, with a point of fact, Mr Radek Koten. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would just very much like to supplement Minister Zaorálek, because it was not only in 2013, but it was also in 2016. That's when Ukraine forced a fighter plane to land the Belarusian company Belavia and the fighters forced him to return the plane because of some suspicion of terrorism or that they were transporting someone on board, so it just made it land in Ukraine, back in Kiev. I was just wondering if the House of Commons also dealt with this problem and adopted a resolution on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u17	Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear - so far the last application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm so glad that Nazi Raman Pratasevič is sitting in prison, and I don't care where this Nazi and fascist sits, whether he's sitting in a Belarusian prison or in any other prison, because he's a fascist pig. He is photographed in dozens of photographs where he is hacking, he is photographed in dozens of photographs where he uses Nazi symbols, and he is friends with the Ukrainian Right Sector. He's a Nazi, and I'm glad he's in a Belarusian prison, and I wouldn't mind if he got a little bit in his body there, because I have no mercy for the Nazis and the fascists. What has been said here by KDU-ČSL colleagues, through Mr President, is also a demonstration of hypocrisy and an incredible ability to lie. What would happen to that Bolivian plane if it didn't respect the order and continued to fly that forbidden European space? Well, they'd just send a jet after him. That's one thing. The second thing is that Ukraine actually forced a plane to land with a threat of shooting down in 2016, in which a Russian journalist, whom Ukraine considered to be a Russian agent, sat. So, under the threat of shooting down the fascist Ukrainian regime that did not come out of the elections, but arose from an armed coup, which, on the contrary, overthrown the democratically elected president, the democratically elected parliament, the democratically elected government that we recognised, recognised it by the European Union, recognised it by the OSCE, and, following the rigged pro-fascist elections that millions of Ukrainian citizens could not participate in because of the war that this junta then provoked, this fascist regime threatened to shoot down a Belarusian aircraft. He sent a fighter gun against him, and we're here looking like nothing happened. So when we're giving up unconstitutionally - unconstitutionally, the Czech Republic turned Nikulin into the United States against its own constitution, it's a nasty slap in the face of the Czech Constitution, it's one of the biggest embarrassments this government could have committed - so everything's fine. When Američan murder in the territory of the Third State of a man whose security was secured by that state, it's perfectly okay because, of course, that man was suspected of terrorism. Okay, I get it. But when Belarus here downloads a man who - I will find it right away - is charged officially after interrogating agents who were arrested in Russia because they were preparing the murder of the Belarusian president, there are records for this, there is indisputable evidence, because Rus and Bělorus, unlike us, do not work with conjecture, but work with concrete evidence - someone from the West was planning the murder of President Lukašenko and his family. These people have been arrested. We can imagine that they were interrogated at least exactly as if they were in Guantánamo or as if they were in Abu Ghraib, so they were probably using the exact same interrogation methods as we are using Western civilization when we suspect someone from terrorism. So they were probably interrogated exactly the same way, so they just started talking anyway. And this Roman Pratasevič, this Nazi, is one of the people they just ratted on. And the Bělorus, when they learned they were flying across their territory, they pulled him back to their home very well, because that's exactly how we and any other company would do it. And according to Russian journalists, it was supposed to be this: Money from the Czech Embassy, so our money was supposed to go officially to the humanitarian and protest actions of the Belarusian opposition last year, to the purchase of banners, to print leaflets and to support protests against Lukašenk on the Internet, those hundreds of thousands of protests where people didn't follow any measures, because there wasn't really one, and thanks to which only 10 percent of people died in Belarus compared to the Czech Republic. As the Belorussian KGB discovered, however threatening the name was, the money went to Athens, Greece, to run websites managed by Pratasevič. However, the KGB found that after receiving the money into an account held at the Greek bank of Piraeus, the money had moved and spilled over four other companies and ended up - guess where? Yes, in Ukraine, a company that trades weapons very actively and buys them mainly from two suppliers: Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. So, apparently, thousands of machine guns, grenades, erpégéches, anti-Physical mines that we, the Czech Republic, have been storing in our territory somewhere, are proven and indisputable, and these weapons for the money of the Czech government should be directed to Belarus to assassinate the president to murder his family, and we are still going to impose sanctions on Belarus, which, of course, are resisting? And if the Rus were helping him, I'm just applauding them because every Nazi and every political killer who ends up in prison, whether the Russian FSB or the Belarusian KGB gets him there, that's just good news for this world, and I'm grateful for that. Let's do it again. Belarus has withdrawn from the air a person who has evidence that it is not afraid to publish, that it has been trading arms with Czech money, arms with companies that trade with Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. They have the evidence, and they're not afraid to use it. In Belarus, President Lukašenko was about to be murdered, which was not reported by any of our media and his entire family. The holding of aircraft is a common practice of political pressure and state terrorism, which uses both the European Union when it forced a Bolivian President's plane to land, and Ukraine, which, under the threat of shooting down, forced a Belarusian aircraft to land. The United States kills itself around the world whenever they want, whoever they want, and the Czech Republic, as a disgusting hypocritical state, violates its own constitution and issues people abroad to protect against international crime. So you live here in a country like this, and you want to threaten someone with sanctions? Please, let's get our act together and act like everyone else. Let us act as if after seven years we discover some traces of Vrbetic, on our knees our prime minister asks the Eurounion states for support and they laugh at his face because they are not paid like this and that part of the House for destroying our economy and passing on high-value contracts to their own companies, whether it be tram deliveries or building automobile factories, or gas and oil supplies that will avoid Ukraine. And there's nothing you can do about it because Germany wants them. Germany wants the gas, Germany will build its economy on Russian gas, and here you will spit on Russia and Belarus and ask these countries - France and Germany - to expel some of their diplomats. They'll laugh at you and send you to hell. And this is exactly the same! It's a ridiculous attempt to take advantage of an understandable incident that's happening all the time on the international stage to some embarrassing internal political struggle. I'm really glad that Pratasevič is in prison, and I really hope that he gets into the body there like any Nazi and fascist, and that his testimony, which will be obtained by the very same methods as we get information from the people of Abu Ghraib or Guantánamo, will be spread by other tentacles of this terrorist mafia, which wanted to slaughter Lukašenkův family with weapons probably from Vrbetic. So I will certainly not support this pointless resolution, which is full of hypocrisy, lies and nonsense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u19	Now, with the factual remark of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, it is the last application so far. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, there have been quite strong words. I agree with what my colleague said that Pratasevič is a Nazi. I think there's enough evidence. I know that our right hand side of the opposition is also very close to the Nazis, can be friends with them in Ukraine, can be friends with them, you could hand out swords, and I don't know what you were giving out, and then it would get out of hand. If you can't see that Pratasevič is a Nazi, you're blind if you can't see it. [[19.10 hours]] And as far as the airspace is concerned. Take a look or ask someone in the army, whether they tell you how many times Czech fighters, Gripens, take off to airplanes that move in our airspace, in some way do not respond or have any problems. Without knowing how the communications between fighter 129 and the pilot were, we're doing an account here without the superintendent. And only in the media space - and in 2014 Majdan was involved and the person was involved in it, then it is said that he was trained here - so I ask the former Foreign Minister who paid for it here. Was it you, State Department? How many millions of crowns have you poured into the Belarusian opposition? Are you guys proud of each other? Are you proud of yourself, Mr. Former Foreign Minister? Is that how you see democracy? And that's not just you. It's all of you from the demo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u21	So let me see if I have another application. I don't see any more applications, so I am ending the general debate. Do I ask the plaintiff's representative if he is interested in the final word? [[I don't.]] You are not interested, so we will proceed to the debate in detail. So you were just supposed to sign up for those resolutions. I don't know if you want to read them again, but at least sign up for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u22	I'll just keep it short. If anybody needs this, I will read the whole resolution, but I suppose I will read it at the vote itself, because I would make a proposal for us to vote after at least the three basic parts. There are three Roman blocks. The first part concerns a clear definition of what happened. The second part concerns, say, a proposal to the government on how to proceed from the point of view of sanctions. The third part concerns Russia's possible role. So I would give as a basis to vote in these three blocks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u23	Yeah, so it's three blocks each. So I finish in detail - Yes, still in detail? [[Mr Bartošek is applying for the floor.]] But so just with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to ask for a 10-minute break before the final vote is carried out, as the petitioner has announced. This is so that all Members and Members can come to the Chamber to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u25	Yes, so I don't see anyone else in the debate anymore. It is at the request of the KDU-ČSL. I'm ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in the final word again? [[Mr. Jurečka. No.]] No, you already had the final word. So now I should basically give that break 10 minutes. The plaintiff could still read some of the resolutions here, but we're gonna take a 10-minute break. It's like a final vote before him. Those resolutions aren't long. So 10 minutes at the request of the KDU-ČSL MP and I'll meet you here at 7:23 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u26	We're 19-23, we're out of time. Now I'll read the apology. Member Petr Třešňák apologizes until the end of the day for working reasons from 19.20. I will therefore now ask the appellant, Mr Marian Jurečka, to show us through the resolutions and to say what we will be voting on. Please. I'm gonna ask you to calm down in the courtroom!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u27	Thank you, Mr President. I will allow us to take a vote on the proposed resolutions. They're in three blocks. I would like to read the first part: "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic condemns the forced landing of Ryanair's aircraft during the flight on a regular line from Athens to Vilnius bearing the features of the hijacking of a civilian aircraft. It calls for an independent investigation of the entire incident, calling on the Government of the Republic of Belarus to immediately release Raman Pratasevič and Sofie Sapegová, who were arrested on board the aircraft." That's the first part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u28	We all understand. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 161 Members registered, for 109, versus 15. The motion was accepted. Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u29	Thank you. Subsequently: "II. In this context, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government to clearly stand up for the initiation of effective European sanctions measures, such as: - a ban on flights to or from EU countries by the Belarusian state company Belavia, - the designation of Belarus airspace as dangerous, leading to the diversion of European airline routes, - the exclusion of Belarus from Interpol, which the Belarusian regime may seek to abuse for political repression and persecution, - the expulsion of declared representatives of the Belarusian KDB intelligence service from the territory of the EU States; Official representatives of the KDB are still active in Belarusian embassies, including the one in Prague, which is most likely responsible for this act, - imposing targeted economic sanctions on Belarusian businesses, oligarchs and other entrepreneurs who directly cooperate with President Lukašenk and through which the regime finances its expenditure and through which personal enrichment of leading Belarusian officials is carried out.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u30	There was an application for a check-out. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 136 Members registered, for 91, against 32. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u31	"III. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic further notes that it is necessary to investigate the possible role of the Russian state in this kidnapping. In the event of proof, it will be necessary to impose sanctions on other representatives of the Russian State, such as official representatives of Russian intelligence services in the territory of the EU States.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u32	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 144 Members signed in, for 72, against 31. The motion was denied. I wonder if we have all the votes closed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u33	Yes, we have discussed and voted on all motions for resolutions on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-005-538.u34	Well, I'm done with this point. Have a good evening. The meeting will continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
