ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u1	497. The draft law amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches (the Mining Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 531/10/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 531/11. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Miroslav Balatka among us and I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček comment on the amendments tabled. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again meeting here to discuss the proposal for an amendment to the so-called Upper Law, which was drafted by the Czech Mining Authority together with the MIT. Allow me to recap. According to the valid version of the Mining Act, 40 per cent of the proceeds from the reimbursements are currently intended directly to the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of the Environment to remove the damage caused by the mining of mineral deposits, to dispose of and ensure the abandonment of mining works, remediation, reclamation and revitalization of the land concerned, protection and registration of raw material resources. What am I responding to? I am responding to the Senate proposal that has brought it back to the House with this amendment, which proposes to divide these proceeds from the payments of acquired minerals between the municipalities, the state and the regions, in such a way that the state budget is to go by almost 50 per cent less revenue than it is today. That's why I actually introduced what the key is to divide it. What would happen? By approving this amendment, there would be a significant restriction on both the Ministry of Industry and the environment to fulfil the obligations set out in Section 33 of the Mining Act, or to remove the damage caused by the acquisition of mineral deposits, the liquidation of secured abandoned mining works, remediation, reclamation, revitalization of all the land concerned and so on. At the same time, there would be a gap which does not address who would be responsible for these activities instead of the MIT and the MIT, and that is still the question of what financial resources. At the Senate meeting, it was said that the ambition of this amendment should be that the regions would better redistribute funds to municipalities affected by brown coal mining. I would like to say that both the MIT and the MIT finance the removal of damage caused by the mining of mineral deposits and so on, remediation throughout the Czech Republic, in other words, help all municipalities, all regions at this time. In other words, this money, these resources we're putting back, with the fact that we're removing the old environmental burdens that are caused by the conquest, and to a large extent we can do this in all regions. It is true that the regions affected by the acquisition of brown coal would certainly receive a little more resources into their budgets - to be precise, tens of millions of crowns, which, given how much we are going to give these regions concerned from the point of view of all sources of the so-called Just Transition Fund or funds associated with other European resources, is a negligible part, but would in fact be largely limited at this point in time by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of the Environment. The approval of this amendment would therefore result, as I have already said, in a significant reduction in the means that would go to other structurally affected regions, especially in the Moravian-Silesian region. If, in simple terms, the funds obtained by the regions were to aim to eliminate the consequences of mining, the budgetary determination of the reimbursements of the regions should be specified in this way. For a specific picture, I have also had a comparison of the specific amounts and a conversion of the appropriations from 2019 to give us a more accurate picture. So in 2019, CZK 515 million went to the state budget, of which CZK 144 million were to the Ministry of Industry's budget and CZK 61 million to the environment. Of this amount, approximately 148 million were used in 2020 to help the regions, i.e. it is clear that the money is being paid back, as I have already said, in line with the special purpose destination. If we were to convert the funds according to the proposed amendment, the Ministry of Industry would receive only CZK 70,6 million, or about half at this time, for the implementation of the projects intended for this purpose and would logically lack an amount of approximately the same size. Therefore, we would not be able to implement these projects, so once again there would be bits of the region. We are of the opinion that this should remain as it was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, I ask you not to accept and vote against this amendment. I recommend that this amendment should not be definitively adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u3	Thank you, Minister. At this point, I will ask the senator to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, I will try to convince you that the changes proposed by the Senate are not only necessary to help regional budgets, but also to correct the unfair distribution of the remuneration for the extracted mineral for surface conquest. It's brown coal and so-called other minerals. This amendment is quite simple. It does not change the amount of the fee, but it changes the distribution of the remuneration for the extracted mineral. In the case of brown coal, the remuneration is now divided into 33 percent of the municipalities in which the mining is carried out and 67 percent in the state budget. Of these 67 percent, we would like to re-allocate part of the budgets of the regions, as the Minister has already said here, in which the mining is taking place and which are burdened with mining. Out of this money, the regions could cover projects for their development, which means that the distribution would be as follows: 33 per cent for the municipalities, this remains unchanged, 37 per cent new for the regions and 30 per cent for the state budget. [[16.30 hours]] I will just note that, for example, only 25 per cent of the payments for deep-sea coal, oil or gas are going to the state budget. All 75 percent of them end up in the regions. In view of this discrepancy, and also given what I said at the outset, I consider this new proposed division to be fairer. In addition, the Karlovy Vary Region would receive about 45 million a year in the budget, and then approximately 180 million in the Ústí Region. It's not, as you can see, in terms of the size of budgets, any huge money. I don't think the rest of the Republic will even notice that such amounts are missing in the state budget. Moreover, these figures will decrease in connection with the decline in mining. But in the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, from where, and I would like to stress where this money came from, there is a lot of good for its inhabitants. This amendment also concerns a new distribution of payments for harvested minerals, for the surface conquest of so-called other minerals, typically quarrys or sandstones. There are more than 900 of these throughout the territory, and the ratio of the distribution of payments is similar to that of brown coal, which means that the larger part of this charge ends today in the state budget, not in the regions where it is harvested. More specifically, 38 percent of the population ends up in municipalities and 62 percent of the state gets. Here, too, we would like to add a new amendment to the regions in which this mining takes place. As with brown coal, the state would remain 30%, i.e. 5% more than with coal, oil, or gas. According to this proposal, the counties would receive 32 percent. These funds could be used by the regions, for example, to repair roads that are destroyed by the operation of freight cars from quarrys and to reduce the impact of surface stone mining. This proposal by Přemysl Rabas and other senators is not new. It is inspired by the 2016 parliamentary amendment. In the Senate he was recommended by a subcommittee for the regions in transition and a permanent Commission for Rural Development. This amendment was not loaded in the Senate Economic Committee and the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment recommended the adoption of a law as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. We tried to get support for this amendment across Senate clubs and the Senate plenary for this proposal after a rich debate finally raised the hand of 62 senators from 74 present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u5	Thank you, Senator. Does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Leo Luzar, or other rapporteurs of the other committees, wish to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? I don't see anyone. I am opening the debate and with priority right is Mr Feri reporting to me in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Senator, I am speaking on the proposal on the ground that we tabled a similar amendment both in 2016 and in the context of this press debate in the Chamber of Deputies. We also presented it in an alternative way, for example, with the fact that the alquature part would be allocated, for example, to the State Environmental Fund. It didn't pass, and I'm glad it's coming back here now in this Senate form. Let us abandon legislative terms as a remuneration from the acquired mineral and let us say in human terms what is going on. The point is, if the mining money, especially brown coal, stays in regions where they probably know best what to do with it, or if they go into the central budget, then it will somehow be redistributed and we will pretend that the money is actually going back, but not all of it, and so on. I believe that this is a matter that is above coalition or opposition policy, and that all Members from the Ústí Region or from the Karlovy Vary Region should raise their hand for it. I was born in Kadan, almost on the threshold of a coal quarry. There are colleagues who also live at coal quarrys, coal power plants. And we all know what it looks like in those regions that these regions are heavily affected by mining and subsequent electricity production, and that the money is supposed to stay there. I have a colleague, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, from the Karlovy Vary Region. It's just not about the opposition - the coalition. This is primarily about whether we want the regions to have the money, to manage it, to help transform it, or if we believe that the state can do it better. I trust the authorities, I trust the regions. I think they can manage it better. We support the Senate version and I would like to call on all Members from these regions to do so as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u7	Thank you. Mr Leo Luzar will speak in the general debate. [[Someone checked in.]] Sorry. [[An agreement between Members.]] Mr Luzar, then. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u8	Thank you for the floor. I hate to get ahead of my colleague, but I think it's been overlooked. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only allowed to speak or say one thing about the Senate proposal: when my previous speaker spoke about the fact that this proposal is not new - the senators have merely modified or adopted a certain model, which has already been voted in various variants here in the House and has been rejected by the House majority - nothing against it. The idea will, of course, be heard by almost every law that somehow divides money between municipalities, regions and the state budget. I can imagine much more of these laws - there will be representatives of the authorities, representatives of the regions, or the state budget, who will want more funds. Here is presented a model that says that the regions will help themselves in the order of perhaps millions of crowns, tens of millions of crowns, to help themselves into their budgets. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this - sorry for the expression - is not a large amount of money that could be of great help to the regions in this matter, especially when this money is not assigned. The proposal is not regarded as a purpose of binding these funds into the repair of the affected roads. It will be purely on the consideration of the self-government of a particular region, where it will use the money and whether it will really benefit the community through which trucks or trucks run, or if it will really use it somewhere next door. That is one of my minor reservations on this proposal. And if the Senate colleagues really meant it specifically in these locations, the purpose could be - or should be - written. The second thing I want to point out is that we are all aware of the different regions, that there is some sort of animosity between regions concerning the redistribution of funds by population, according to the size of the regions, according to the burden of the regions. These regions have some tension between them and we blame each other for the resources allocated to each other. I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, and we implore the government to finally send the billions that are promised to us and should come. But I'm sure the second step will be to hear the expressions from other regions that say: you already have enough, you get paid from that, you get paid from that, we want the billions too, and we want to touch them, because we also have devastated environments, we also have some restructuring problems. I'm a little worried that we'd drop the genie out of the bottle, if we started to worry about the laws, even if in good faith: here we take the million, here we take the second million - and that we lose the basic idea that there will be big money to help the regions out of European money, there will be big money from the Czech state budget. We should mainly make these funds available to the regions and not go in this form, which I consider partly to be a modification of the RUD, that is to say, a modification of the RUD itself. This is my petty reservation to the petitioners - that I would still understand if it were purposely tied, but this is really how I consider it to be a circumvention of the budgetary determination of taxes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u9	President Stanjura has entered into a debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u10	Now the debate is going regionally. It is quite understandable when we read the amendment that came from our upper chamber. We have three regions that are structurally disabled and which have to cope with the gradual decline in coal mining. Unfortunately, she forgot our upper chamber. I forgot. If you look at the preparation of the Just Transition Fund, it will cover three regions - Moravian-Silesian, Ústecký, Karlovy Vary. I agree that we should all focus on making meaningful use of the money in the regions. I think I understand the motives, but I don't understand that you've forgotten the Moravian-Silesian region. I know you've got brown coal... but coal isn't just brown, it's also black, and we've been dealing with a gradual reduction in coal mining for decades. [[16.40 hours]] I consider politicians' debates about when we order the end of coal mining to be a little unnecessary, because in the end, real economic life will decide. I think that the downturn will eventually take place even before all the coal and posthumous commissions agree, because it will become economically disadvantageous; there will be great pressure from the banking sector to avoid such a type of business. I think we need to take a realistic look at this, that's just the way it is. That decision has already been made, and we are supposed to focus on helping those regions. When you look at the different rankings, where the quality of life is evaluated in our municipalities, such as all threes, almost always ends cities and municipalities from these three regions - and it is not the fault of municipalities, municipal or regional. Really these three regions need help from the central level because they are more affected and will be more affected, and here, unfortunately, they are not thinking about it. I'm not going to be harsh or critical about the proposal, I just wanted to say that the three counties just can't help themselves. We have managed many ourselves, our region has undergone a huge change over the years. And by the way, what my previous speaker said was that billions were promised by the government of Miloš Zeman. Who will remember the first good in which years she ruled? Almost none of us remember when it was. Well, it was in the last century and millennia when those promises were first made. We haven't seen the money until today. For example, projects for damage control after mining activities - I submitted the project for our city sometime in 2006, 2007 and last year it was approved at the MIT. Thirteen years! And we followed the instructions of the marketers, and we called it the Treasure on the Silver Lake, because it is the Silver Lake in Opava - and it hasn't helped, 12 or 13 years have been dealt with. So I don't think I'm questioning this debate about splitting tens of millions. Perhaps it would still be fair to be heard, because I don't know what the budget of the Karlovy Vary Region is today, and how much is the budget of the Ústí Region, so that we know if the increase is by 5%, 10 %, 15 percent or how much more is the money. I think the number's gonna be lower than the higher one. And for my part, I am sorry that you forgot the third region that is affected by the decline in mining, because unlike Members from the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region - I understand that there is no role at all in the government or opposition bench - it is even harder for the rest of us than for those of the two regions, for them it is basically simple. I understand that. But for the rest of us, this vote is much harder than for colleagues and colleagues from these two regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u11	Thank you. Mr. Senator reporting with priority rights. Then I have a general debate signed up electronically - and takes precedence - by Mr Krejza and Mr Pávek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to respond to my two previous speakers. First of all, Mr Luzar. [[properly Stanjuru]] I'm so sorry about what he said. This isn't about forgetting the Moravian-Silesian region. As we all know, brown coal is not being mined in the Moravian-Silesian region, but coal is being mined there, and the mining fee is, of course, also paid for coal. However, 75 percent of this fee in the Moravian-Silesian Region ends in regional budgets, i.e. in municipal budgets, and only 25 percent of this money goes to the state budget. There's a discrepancy in that. That means we haven't forgotten anything. We haven't forgotten the Moravian-Silesian region, logically - it's already solved. [[With a smile.]] We were dealing with brown coal, where the ratio - and I was talking about it at the beginning - is exactly reversed, which means that 33 percent will be given to the municipalities and 67 percent will end up in the state budget. I'd just like to respond to Mr. Stanjura. And after what Mr Luzar here said about the purpose of the payment. Of course, we were wondering if there is any purpose in making or not making these funds, because at present there are 40 percent of these funds. Finally, we found that these are so small volumes, they are tens of millions of crowns in order, that the purpose tiedness came to us not a completely happy solution. [[as:]] However, the regions have their priorities, they have their elected representatives, they know the situation and they know where the money is best used. That is why we have not included the purpose of binding ourselves in this proposal. I think that perhaps we should trust the regions more, knowing the needs of their regions and their citizens, and knowing best where to invest these funds. Again, it's not some big money, it's tens of millions of crowns. I will just add, it was said here from the Minister's mouth that in 2019 148 million went to bail out mining or support projects in the context of aid to the regions. According to our proposal, up to 210 million would go to the regions, which means the regions themselves will help in a much larger volume than they currently are, and that is why we are proposing this proposal, and that is why I think it is good to approve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u13	Mrs Procházková will make a point of fact. - It's jamming, she's signed up for a general debate, so Mr Krejza will be speaking now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u14	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, especially from the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. It is true that these amounts are marginal in terms of the state budget, but given the situation, for example, in the Ústí region, which I know best, each free crown will help the budget immensely. After all, after previous governments, even the captain you know well must deal with many problems with us. Bus transport 900 million planned, minus 600 this year, and we could go on like this. 180 million - 140 million crowns are free resources that would help the regions immensely, of course, even Karlovy Vary. I suppose that all who have to these two regions - and I am sorry that the Moravian-Silesian one has been forgotten, but I think that colleagues from the Moravian-Silesian Region will understand this - will vote for this simple amendment, which really has no influence on state finances, but a very significant influence on regional finances, and I would be very sorry if the sitting captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region did not support his colleagues from the structurally affected regions. So I'm asking you to. Really marginalia, which will help us very much in Ústí and Karlovy Vary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u15	Thank you. Mrs Procházková in the debate, Mr Pávek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u16	Thank you for the floor. Hello, everyone. You know, Senator Balatka called me and asked for my opinion. I told him I wasn't against principle, I'm sure. The problem is somewhere else. You see, I was at the council of the Karlovy Vary Region - as a Member, I am not a regional representative. The representative has committed its Members to vote in favour of this proposal. I would point out that they have nothing to tie us up. Senator Balatka is a regional representative, and when the budget for this year was voted on, the budget is negative, unlike the budget prepared by the last council, where I was a representative, and it was balanced. And I'm gonna ask you one thing. Can you commit to me, Mr. Senator, that the money we would get would really be used for that purpose? [[16.50 hours]] Unlike when the Ministry of Environment gets it, where the money is purposefully tied and is clearly used for reclamation, for DIAMO and so on, unfortunately, I'm a little worried about what's happening there now in the Karlovy Vary Region, when money is being distributed to historically four relaxed councillors, who will cost us about 16 million over the four years. That's not a lot of money either, if I'm not mistaken. So it's just rounded up, because they'll still have offices, they'll have cars - that's never really happened with us, so we'll have so many redundant councilmen in my opinion. So I have this feeling that then it could be used on completely different things than for what it is. So if it's not purpose-bound, I can't raise my hands for it, because if I imagine that the regions that grow wine could say, and we want our taxes back, because the wine is grown here. That's an example. So the system will be broken, I'm sure everyone will start to respond this way, and we're not sure it's really going to be used for what it's meant to be. Plus, part of it -- and so did you here -- the percentages are already going to the municipalities. To the people who really know very well in that county what money is to be used for. So that's where the money goes, plus it goes to the counties through the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. So unfortunately, I'm going to abstain, or rather, I'm going to be totally against it, because I'm not sure that those taxes will be used for the purpose for which they will be collected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u17	Before I give the floor to Mr Pávek, there are two factual points. The first is Mr Dominik Feri, Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared and President Stanjura will be given priority. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry, but I don't find the wine analogy entirely appropriate, because the effects of wine growing and the effects of massive surface extraction are a little different, I think. People go on wine trails, they don't go to watch the greatness of Nástup Tušimice, even though it's getting better and it's becoming touristy attractive. What is necessary to say: the money does not have a bow precisely for the reason that the council can say for itself: we need it for here, we need it to improve some situation in the community, which - I don't know - for example, some employees have been released there, or whatever the region needs. It is precisely that the regions know this better, that they can say it in some way. I'm sure I wouldn't be bringing in any kind of struggle to see if anyone has a job and a car and a secretary or not, which I don't think is really appropriate here, but the money goes to the county and stays there. If the Minister appealed here in the opening speech and made an impression, as if the money had vanished, that's not true. The money's still here, they'll stay here, they'll stay in the regions. What's the government like now, that's one thing, maybe then the YES movement will rule again, and the money will come in handy. This means that in the Ústí Region, for example, the YES movement rules, that is, it is not opposition versus coalitions, money remains in the regions and it is the best choice for itself. I think, honestly, that voting against or abstaining and even saying it in connection with the fact that there are some loose features and there are money going on - no, that's really not for those relaxed councillors, with the car and the secretary, that's what they do for the people who live there, that's gonna help the money. I think that all of the regions here can vote in favour of this proposal without any doubt. It's money to the regions, where they know best what to do with them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u19	Mr Ivan Adamec, Mrs Procházková will be ready. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u20	Yes, thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I should like to ask you a question, by your means, to my colleague Mrs Procházková. I didn't understand the concept of a minus budget. I really don't know this concept in self-government, and I'd like us to get this straight. Of course, I understand that you, as a member of the ANO movement, are currently in opposition in the Karlovy Vary Region, if memory does not deceive me, you may not like what the existing coalition is doing there, but this is not the subject of this plenary. We should decide, regardless of who, what political representation, actually operates in the individual region or community. I think that it is always one way and another, and that we should make decisions based on what is good for the region, for those communities and what is not. That is what I think is a fundamental point of view, so I confess that I did not understand the argument a little bit, and especially as a person who has been making budgets, city budgets and regional budgets for many years. So I would really like you to explain to me here, through Mr President, what the term minus budget is. I really don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u21	Thank you. Mrs Procházková, Mrs Kalátová will be prepared, then President Stanjura and Senator with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u22	Thank you for calling me, Mr Member, through the President. Well, I was looking at an operating budget that's historically minus for the first time, just to be clear. But otherwise, right at the beginning of my performance, I said that I was okay with principle at all, on the contrary, that I would be in favour, even of telling the senator, I would be in favour, yes, of course. Our country is disabled and I was born there, I live there, I have all of them, both children, family, everything. But I was specifically concerned with the problem that it wasn't purposefully tied up, and I'm not the first person to say it here. I think it needs to be said that we're trying to make these regions - the roads do all the edges, but these affected regions really get it for the purpose of collecting taxes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u23	děkovat you, Mrs Iva Kalátová, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am also from the Karlovy Vary Region, and I would never have happened to get into a situation where I would have considered whether or not to support my region. Mrs Procházková explained a lot. I would add: I am in the Committee on Budgets, and the opposition is constantly pushing us to cut spending. My colleague merely wanted to point out that our budget in the Karlovy Vary Region instead of having it flowing into my shoes and having little money, so I will save it, so I will reduce the operating costs as it goes - on the contrary, we have increased them in the Karlovy Vary Region. So I would just like to say that about what Mrs Procházková said, and I am joining her in on her position. It bothers me, too, or I miss the fundamental plane, and that is the purpose of the committed funds. Mr Feri is clearly right that territorial budgets know very well what to do with these resources, but this is about the resources of the region, not the municipalities, which remain, and I like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u25	At this point, President Stanjura will speak with priority rights, and the senator will prepare himself. Mr. Pávek might come up sometime, too. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u26	I apologize to Mr Pávek. Speaking of classics, we've got a lot of bad shit going on around here. I protest in the long term when colleagues from Prague are dealing with Prague's policy in the Chamber of Deputies, and today we are discussing Karlovy Vary policy in the Chamber of Deputies, and so please all of us to deal with it on the margins or in the municipalities, and not in the Chamber of Deputies. For my performance to be understood, the senator didn't convince me that they hadn't forgotten us, but I follow the motto "Wish and Wish." My comment was not about this - I said it was not even critical - that I did not vote, my colleague Karel Krejza convinced me to support it, even though we were forgotten. If I had to paraphrase the senator a little bit, he says you've had enough. Then we don't have enough, we'd want more, wouldn't we? [[17,00 hours]] However, I think that the debate on how to help the regions in the long term will be more important. That's why I was talking about the ranking of cities where quality of life is evaluated. We can question them, but repeatedly cities from these three regions are located in the lower half, and I repeat, it is neither the fault nor the municipal or regional authorities. So the proposal doesn't bring much, but why not? Maybe next time something will come for our country. Opening the debate of the division of the RUD between 14 regions, that is what every smart finance minister will do, because it is clear how this debate will end. The county just doesn't agree. The only thing they agree to do is want a bigger slice at the expense of the state or municipalities, I understand. The moment you say, yes, it is not unfair, make a deal - 14 captains, 14 regional representatives, so that someone joins, must be taken away from someone, and you will not find a single region, and no matter what political representation the region leads, which would approve, because no one would defend it at home. Well, that's such a waste of time. I also think the parameters have not been selected quite happily. I think our region would deserve a bigger share, but I know it's impossible to negotiate, and it's not worth losing time in vain negotiations about how a percentage of somewhere move a thousandth up or down. I'm sorry, Mrs Procházková, but I didn't want to get caught up in the definition of what a minus budget is. As long as there isn't a minus budget, there can't even be a minus operating budget. I would still understand that the operating budget is the highest in history. I understand that, and that can be measured, but there's no other negative operating budget, because we'd have to put something against it - tax revenue, income, all income, I don't know what, and it really doesn't belong here in the debate. I think maybe the original proposal for it to come to the Environmental Fund, which didn't pass here either, had its ratio. I think we have long underestimated the issue of removing old environmental burdens. I'm looking at government MPs now. Remember the debate when we were interrupting the National Property Fund, when we pointed out that the state's finances were going to fall dramatically to remove the old environmental burdens, and again this is happening in many of these three regions, and look at reality. If we take out old environmental burdens at this rate, we'll end up in about 102 or 104 years, now I don't know the exact number, but that number is falling to one billion a year in the whole state, and that's desperately little. And that's where we're supposed to put our strength. This is where we decide to vote. I think that the debate on these, let's say, 210 million, although it's very optimistic, will not actually solve, however the vote goes, the structural problems of these three regions. Either the political representation agrees, that is, even the other 11 regions will recognise that these three regions are unable to help themselves - not because they are incompetent, but because the problems are structural and systemic - and then let us look for tools, whether from European money or from the Czech national budget, both to help these regions to improve the quality of life of the people living in those regions so that they do not regularly move in those rankings in the second half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u27	Mr. Senator will speak with priority, then the Minister of the Environment and then perhaps Mr. Pávek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna react briefly. I've been asked here to respond, so I can answer it. Anyway, thank you very much to Mr Stanjur, who spoke before me. He basically said 90 percent of what I wanted to say here. I would reply, by your means, Mr President, to the Member. I don't think it's necessary to do Karlovy Vary laundry here. I really don't. I don't think it's in power now in the Karlovy Vary Region of the YES movement, maybe in four years it will be. We don't play for this at all. I think that is precisely the system thing that this proposal should address. And what I'm saying is, as you said, the Karlovy Vary Council tasked you. Not at all. The Karlovy Vary Council has recommended that you support or consider supporting this amendment coming from the Senate. Recommendation, I think it is quite clear, and I must say that the overwhelming majority of the Karlovy Vary Council, including representatives of the ANO movement, voted in favour of this resolution. So I don't think there's a problem with that, and I think you should take that into consideration, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u29	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Věra Kovářová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond to the performance of two fellow Members before me. Mrs Krutáková and I visited the Karlovy Vary Region, and what a surprise it was that the region was beautiful, but at the same time it has an incredible number of problems. And, as has been said here by Mr Stanjura, through Mr President, the problem is systemic - there is a need to address transport infrastructure, and it is not something that can be removed within a few years. And that's why I think that if we're talking about 210 million for three regions here, I think that's something that's definitely not going to put the state budget at risk, and that can help these three regions. I therefore ask you to support this proposal, no matter what you think of it, but it is the support of the three regions that are really the most affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u31	Thank you. At this moment, Mr. Environment Minister Richard Brabec will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In order not to give any impression, colleagues, that the Ministry of the Environment is somehow preying on those regions - because it has been said here xx that we have a share of this very fee. I'd like to say that if we look at it really, just out of the money, we put more money in order every year than we have on this fee. Only for the cauldron subsidies or for the boiler loans - because the boiler loans were a program that went directly to the three counties, used by hundreds of municipalities, and if I'm not mistaken, it already exceeded a billion crowns. The money remains for municipalities, hundreds of municipalities for their projects. There is an advantage that goes, of course, to the boiler subsidies for these three regions. There's an advantage for New Green Savings. But what's really the future of those regions, it's not change. The future of the regions is, of course, the use of the Fair Transformation Fund, where there should be approximately CZK 50 billion in the coming years, as well as the possibility of using the Modernization Fund, where there is CZK 150 billion, and a whole series of investments will end up in these three regions. So what I'd like to say is that if we want structurally - and I'm definitely behind it - to help those regions, we really have to do it with more money, and we have prepared them, and they're just going to go to those regions, and that money is going to end up there. And it's not just about making promises. I dare say that if a minister or secretary of the environment had put that money right in the county before me, those regions might have looked different too. We've put several billion crowns in there, directly to these regions. And how the regions are prepared for a new period will just show how they will be able to use the Fair Transformation Fund, which is a huge chance for structural changes in those regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u33	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Procházková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u34	Thank you for the floor. I have to confirm what my previous speaker said, but there is one other thing. You know, this isn't really gonna help these counties -- it's really a tiny thing. Those regions need something completely different. We only have two things, we have a spa and we have services there, and you see what it looks like now. We are still a barrier to socialism and peace. There was nothing invested in us. We don't have a university, we don't have a faculty hospital. I've said this a few times before. We need to pay for the damage that has now been caused by coronavirus, for hotels, for services, for spa. Those are the things we need to deal with. We need to address emerging unemployment because it has to be released on the mines. These are important facts. We need a freeway there, another important thing. And this is change, this is really change. Of course, you're going to tell me here: we have to start somewhere. Yes, but let's focus, let's focus on the forces of all the Members and Senators on these big things, on the important things. Let's push it in front of us because we're not the only country. We have a lot of other things we need to improve. And this is about focusing on it and making laws about it, breaking certain rules, I think it's useless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u35	Mr Dominik Feri, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u36	Thank you. I must disagree with Mrs Procházková, through Mr President. I don't think $200 million is enough. That's big money. I understand that tens and hundreds of billions have been flying here for the last year, so it seems to be a small proportion, but let's imagine it specifically. What do you say as regional representatives, if you are, for example, a citizen, when he says, "Look, the traffic to my village has been reduced, the bus will only run there once a day instead of twice, because the county had to save. Or if there's no money to fix some kind of schoolyard, reconstruction or heating or anything like that. That's the particular money. That's where the tens of millions would go. That's where the money could go. And for other investment projects. This means: yes, if we put a bundle of tens of billions against it for the overall transformation of the region, it may seem like little money. But it's 200 million every year. Every year they go to that county. And they don't go, I have to fix - the money stays there because it's the money that's created there in the sense that it's grown there, the region is affected by the mining, and then it's supposed to take the money to Prague on the truck? And that's where they're coming back from? No, it doesn't make sense. Let the money stay there, they know best what they'll do with it. If it's gonna fix anything, fix the roads, it's up to them. Maybe you're in opposition now, maybe you'll be in the coalition, the money will come in handy. And if you may change your mind, your position, the Minister will handle it, and the citizens will commend you in the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u37	Thank you and, at this point, Mr Pávek in the general debate. Please, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, finally. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to do a few things. Za (a) express their support for the Senate version and, secondly, return the debate to where it belongs before it turned into regionalism, coal debate, investment in the mining revitalization, the decline in mining, etc. Let us say that all the things that have been mentioned here from the affected regions, including the Moravian-Silesian Region, are about billions and tens of billions to really achieve the change you desire. I think it has been completely forgotten here in this debate - and I think, through Mr President, that Minister Brabec has made it very clear here - that is completely different from that charge. At the same time, I would respond to my colleague Luzar, through the President, who pointed out that this would be a breach of the RUD, a budgetary determination of taxes. Well, it wasn't because it's not taxes. It has nothing to do with taxes, it's a small fee specifically tied to some kind of activity. And now I want to say the most important thing that hasn't been said in this debate at all, and that's over 900 sandstones and gravel in the territory of the entire Republic. The whole republic, even where they grow wine, and in all others. The problem that I see there, and I see it really - I have many specific places in my eyes, even in our Liberec Region, which is not affected by any mining of brown coal or coal or any other coal, but sandstones and gravels there is quite a lot, and the enormous traffic load caused by trucks that drive overloaded because sand and gravel are driven within a distance of many tens of kilometers of construction, so they are not involved at all. Not the carriers, not the construction companies, not anyone else. This means that if the county had a few million or tens of millions of crowns, it was to cover holes in the regional roads, and that is why the regions were mentioned there. The municipalities receive part of the charge to increase the quality of life, to compensate for the activity itself, but no one contributes to the regions to repair the regional roads that pass through the municipalities and on which multitonage trucks run. That's why I want to support this law. I know it's not purpose-bound, and we can't tell these counties what they have to do with the money. But I am almost certain that the vast majority of the regions, whoever is in charge, see the situation with the burden of communication, which suffers from the excessive burden of trucks and trucks carrying the raw materials there, that is, gravel and sand. Which is why I want to support the proposal that part of the fee stays in the regions. I believe that even most regions will understand that this is to compensate for the damage caused by the mining activities and put them on the repair of regional roads. All regions suffer from a lack of money to repair regional roads. So it's also offered that these regions of this money, which is in the order of millions or tens of millions a year, which is below our discernment in terms of the state budget, that's 0.00 and some number, this is played for completely different numbers. So just one more time I'd like to recapitulate: it's not taxes, it means it doesn't go against the budgetary determination of taxes, it's a fee. The redistribution of this fee, however small it is, can contribute to the regions to repair the roads that suffer from excessive burdens due to any mining. It affects all regions, and it has nothing to do with the billions and billions to go to affected regions that have brown coal, coal and any other mining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u39	Thank you. Mr Hájek will speak in the debate, and I will read the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček, who apologizes today at 17:00 for work reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, fellow Members, I also like to follow material logic. We discussed this law here in the third reading on December 2nd. It is interesting that the amendment by Mrs Langšádlová, who Mr Balatka copied - should not be copied, but it does happen - the vote turned out to be in favour of, 51 opposed and abstained from, out of 100 Members 11 present. We shouldn't even be discussing an hour and a half today, because the House has made it clear on December 2nd! Odeeska was all against it! Today, Ivan Adamec spoke here about how he will support the Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region, but on December 2 he abstained in voting on the amendment by Mrs Langšádlová. That means he was against it. So what's the change? Is the change in the fact that in the Karlovy Vary Region pirát, excuse me, STAN and the Pirates, together they formed the 11-member coalition? That's probably the main reason if we pour some pure wine. We don't solve cause and effect. I'm from the coal region, too. My shaft will be celebrating for 200 years next year. She won't be celebrating anymore because we're closing her up. 200 years of the Hornoslez basin here - I don't want to say the word fed, but simply the economic benefit for the Czech Republic was clear. Both the communists of northern Bohemia held the economy of Czechoslovakia and not only the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, but for 200 years Ostrava was the steel backbone of the Republic. And here's the deal. It was agreed here that when the coal industry was privatized and what privatisation? We're discussing 200 million today. How much did we miss from OKD? Hundred billion! 100 billion took Bakala! And what are we doing today? We, the state, taxpayers solve this so that OKD can be contained safely and in some social spirit. [[17.20 hours]] How did the North Bohemia turn out? Where's the money from Mostecké coal? How many billions was that? Where are they? Nowhere. So, OK. Tunneled, and who's gonna be handling mining damage disposals today, the past ones? That means, for which he committed himself to the state, I suspect in 1994. For this money, which is collected from the fee for extracted minerals, it really needs the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the environment to recover the mining damage that was incurred before privatisation. And there's a lot of them, if you come to the Moravian-Silesian region, I can show you dozens, maybe the Governor can help me with that list. My colleague Stanjura here was very clear about the fact that the Moravian-Silesian region is not to say worse, but at least as much as the Karlovy Vary and Ústecký Region, but that is the purpose of our three regions, and it is necessary here if I were fair, so I will say: Prague, we have helped you for 200 years, you have a subway here under communists, so if we want justice, I will make a budget tax determination that I will take Prague and give it to these three regions. I'm already looking at these Prague guys coming at me. Of course, there's a dangerous precedent here, which means if we say O.K., we're making money out of coal here, so he has to go to coal regions, which means where he's getting... Any clue... the most money? Well, emission allowances. That means, we say, hurrah, who has the power plant in our region, we're going to distribute emission allowances before the Minister or the Ministry of the Environment gets them here, and they're going to fly there - how much, Minister? That's tens of billions. Tens of billions, let's do it. I think that every region will support this, once again most of the power plants are in northern Bohemia, we only have those Dětmarovices in the Moravian-Silesian region that won't give us much money. So please, from my point of view, the system solution is to approve what we approved as the House on December 2nd. Explain to me the reasons if you all voted against Mrs Langšádlová's amendment on December 2nd, and the Senate proposal is a copy of this amendment as to why this change took place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u41	Thank you. Now, with Mr Feri's factual remark, then with priority rights, President Stanjura, then Senator Balatka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u42	Thank you for the floor. I find it a little strange to pick on the Senate to adopt our amendment. It makes me happy, I'm glad, because I think it's a good suggestion. It's probably just as stupid as if I were blubbering that some amendments to the Ministry are being written to government MPs. No, it's just reality, that's what's happening. The Senate just took it. I was sorry that the proposal didn't go through, but I don't think it's about us poking around, who was supposed to vote, who voted, and waving the Steno Protocols and the roll-call votes. We're doing this for people to keep the money there. It's a completely system solution. It's not like we're gonna send over 200 million now. It's systemic, the money stays there. Perhaps, in conclusion, why we are surprised or why, through Mr President, Mr President, we are surprised to be dealing with a matter of two hours here. Firstly, it is an important subject, and secondly, what we are all doing here and creating is called a legislative process. Process, some management based on point A - submission to point B - publication in the Collection. And the fact that the Senate as a key player in the process said: no, no, no, we also have our reservations about that is fine. And that the House has some will, that's good, but the Senate also has some will. If it's not clear on the upper law, I think everyone who doesn't understand will find out very soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Now, President Stanjura, then I have Senator Balatka's enlistment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u44	Well, they say it's a shame to throw away a chance to dunk when an opponent tapes you like that. So for Mr Hájek, by your means: if anyone is a master of change of heart, it is your movement. I could now list one proposal after another that did not pass in the House, then adopted it by the Senate and then passed thanks to your votes in the Chamber of Deputies, such as compensation for cities and municipalities from the first compensatory bonuses. Remember, we voted about six times before you changed your mind. First of all. Secondly, the popular political phrase used by many, perhaps all: it is not systemic. That's the right question about who's going to determine what's systemic. I understand when someone's against it. That's a legitimate opinion. I say we vote on it in a moment, and either the proposal passes or it doesn't. I think the upper law is more valuable in the rest. This is the partial part after all. But the debate is just useful because it shows the need to help those three regions. I can also hear in that political life the words of those - it's actually a good thing that the way it translates, the Just Transition Fund, the Fair Transformation Fund - you've never heard voices from other regions before, why should it be just the three regions that it would be good to divide the money between all? I've heard it before. And I'm against it, because then we can't remove the disadvantage. To remove it and improve the quality of life not for elected representatives, but for the people who live there. And then the proud Opavan and the proud citizen of our region: we need help because we simply cannot make something out of regional or municipal budgets, but we are not in bad shape, our region. Our country is great, and if anyone says our country isn't great, it's never been there. And so, believe us, who have lived there our whole lives, we have done a lot in those thirty years, and that could be accepted by Mr Hájek, when he compares our region in 1989 and 2021. I think our citizens did great, and we're not going to be shocked by how many hundreds of thousands of people had to change their jobs. We did it. But there are things, infrastructure - the right note for permits, but they're not just power plants. By far, it's not just the power plants. This is also true of our transport companies. I'm asking why it's smart or not. I don't think that's smart. It's true of many other companies. So let's talk about it. This is a serious debate, but not at the moment when we decide on the Senate proposal. Just because the House didn't get through doesn't mean it won't show up again. It happens very often, unfortunately. Let us remember perhaps a heated debate about the abolition of a super-gross wage, and finally we approved the Senate version. Finally, we voted on what you would reject as soon as possible - compensation for cities and municipalities. That didn't pass in the House. And in the Senate version, we found an agreement with the ANO movement. So let's not say the Senate has no right to suggest it. He has a right. Very often it follows the unsuccessful proposals of the opposition, because it is otherwise politically composed, and so it has always been. When the right had the upper hand in the House and the left had the upper hand in the Senate, it was done exactly the same way that what did not pass the left in the House often returned the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies. And there's no problem with that. I would not like to judge individual Members on whether or not they will support this. There's gonna be tens or hundreds of votes like this. We've had hundreds of them. We're just gonna make a decision, and everyone's gonna defend their vote to the voters. It is important that I can explain why I voted so much. And if I get the majority or I don't, that's another thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u45	Now I have Mr. Adamec's electronic application, and then I see the lady. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u46	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I have yet to respond to my honored colleague Pepa Hájek through you. I didn't say I was going to vote for the Senate version. I understand when they talk about mines, mining activities, my colleague Hájek here sometimes sees red, but I didn't say anything like that. I stand by that opinion since I voted here last time, for what version and what I refused. But I have responded here to my colleague Procházková, through Mr President. Nothing else at the moment. So please, if you're gonna name me here, you really need to weigh your words, because that's not what I'm gonna say here, what version I'm gonna support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u47	Thank you. Please, ma'am. I have not noticed whether it is in the debate or with a factual remark, but no one else is logged in, so please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u48	Thank you. I'm reporting for the debate. honourable Member, honourable Member, Mr President. I would also like to express myself, and I would like to say, in particular, in information to all Members, that a subcommittee on public administration has been set up for the regions to transform. It is a subcommittee which was set up virtually simultaneously as in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The first meeting will take place tomorrow, where we will also talk about the agenda of this subcommittee, and we would like those meetings to be held in the future with the subcommittee of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, when Mr Balatka is chairman of this subcommittee. As has been said here today, of course there are reservations, there are positives, negatives. I'm sure there's the main argument here, and that's the purpose of the resources. If the proposal is adopted or not adopted today, we will certainly begin to look at it on this subcommittee, because the representatives of the subcommittee are from all three regions. We will have 13 representatives there and other non-members can participate in the subcommittee. I would like to say that in the past, we have put forward, for example, a proposal here to return funds within the framework of emission allowances, where we have also made it clear that there would be some attachment through the Ministry, and so on. Yet it is clear that if it ever affects individual regions, everyone here always sees it as a whole. But I would like to say one more important thing in terms of the transformation of the regions, and that is that the central coal commission, which has been meeting for many months, has already had a verdict to submit to the government. And I have to say, because I was a member of the coal commission, the resolution that goes to the government, goes with three very important things for three structurally affected regions, for those regions that will be affected by the transformation. The first is that primarily the funds from the Just Transition Fund, from the fair transition fund, will go only to the three regions, which means the Karlovy Vary Region, Moravian-Silesian Region, Ústecký Region. The second modernization fund, to which approximately CZK 120 billion will go, so companies and companies that will be asked for - because they will primarily apply to this modernization fund, will have higher scores if they report from these three regions. And the last thing I consider to be very positive is that these three regions will have an envelope of approximately CZK 40 billion, which will be through the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, the National Recovery Plan and the Operational Programme Enterprise, Innovation and Competitiveness. So it was negotiated both with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, with the Ministry of the Environment. And with this resolution, we will go to the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u49	Thank you. I do not see any more entered into the debate at the moment. Mr. Senator asked me for a final gig, so please. Then there will be room for further final words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u50	Thank you for the floor. I would like to conclude - or I don't know if the conclusion is yet, I don't know exactly how it goes here, I don't know the Rules of Procedure of the House in such detail - so I would like to say something about it and summarize from my point of view what has already been said here. I stand before you today as a representative of the Karlovy Vary Region, a region that has long been neglected, a region that is at the end of almost all rankings in the Czech Republic, a region with the lowest wages, the least educated people, the lowest economic performance, but the most execution; a region that is still falling in many indicators, a region where these trends against the rest of the Republic cannot be changed in the long term. The state itself is failing in this long-term, unfortunately, and the scissors between regions are expanding increasingly. I am from a region where confidence in democracy is falling, where there is very low voter participation, I am from a region where Parliament has very little confidence. I'm from a neglected border region where people often don't believe that democracy can change anything, because they always promise you something in Prague, but they don't keep their promises, the situation is getting worse and we're falling lower. I am from a region where we are currently also dealing with the severe crisis of medical facilities in the context of pandemics. I'm sure you've heard of the situation at Cheb Hospital -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u51	[[He's coming in.]] Senator, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the House for more peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u52	On the other hand, we are a wonderful place with great potential, we are also a spa region, as has been said here, with beautiful nature, Ore Mountains and an amazing atmosphere associated with a very moving history of the 20th century. And also a region whose small part, Sokolov, awaits the transformation associated with the end of coal mining. There are more such regions with specific problems in the Czech Republic. That is why I have also come up with the idea of establishing a Senate subcommittee for the regions in a transformation that would deal systematically with these problems, and I am glad that this subcommittee was created on the Senate floor and that I have the honour of chairing it. In the House of Commons, as my previous speaker said, Mrs Vildumetzová, there is now a subcommittee with a similar focus. And I am glad that even the lower chamber will address the issue of our predominantly coal-fired regions. I very much welcome this, thank you, and I welcome the fact that, in my view, the whole of Parliament has sent a clear signal that it sees and wants to address the problems of these regions. Excuse me, please, this slightly longer and more general introduction. I'm finally getting to why I'm saying all this. I wanted to put you in a situation like that in the regions, which you will also be voting on shortly. I would like to ask you to support the bill as amended by the amendments adopted by the Senate at its 5th meeting on 27 January 2021. The Senate, by an overwhelming majority, adopted an amendment which it proposed and approved in its second meeting of the already mentioned Senate Sub-Committee on Regions for Transformation, composed of senators who come from these regions and who know the situation in them. The proposal was submitted by Senator Přemysl Rabas from Chomutovska, Ústí Region. The situation in the Ústí Region is not much different than in Karlovy Vary, they are usually one place ahead of us in the rankings. In short, I think that the larger part of the fees for extracted minerals, as is the case with coal, should remain in the regions where they are harvested and where the money is collected. I think that if 75 percent of the payments remain from coal, oil or gas, it is unfair and unsystemic that only 33 percent of the brown coal surface extraction now remains in the regions. This adjustment corrects this injustice and will also help the economically weakest regions in the long term. The money goes back to where it came from. It's not a huge amount of money. For the Karlovy Vary Region this means approximately 45 million a year, for Ustecký about 160 million a year. It is small in the state budget, but it is important for the regions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u53	[[He's coming in.]] Senator, I will interrupt you again and ask the House again for more peace. If, colleagues, you need to deal with something, deal with it calmly or outside the O.R. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u54	Thank you. This proposal also regulates the distribution of fees for other minerals, typically stone quarrys and sandboxes. There are over 900 such in the Czech Republic, and many of you have an idea or a personal experience of what it is like to live near them. I think that even here it should be that a greater part of the mining fees should end up in the regions where the mining is taking place and not in the Treasury, as is the case so far. The Senate version of the amendment also corrects this injustice. I'm coming to the conclusion of my performance. I would ask you to consider the approval of the law as amended by the Senate amendments. The vast majority of senators across the political spectrum and across the Republic voted for this change. They weren't just senators from the Ústí and Karlovy Vary Region. The amendment was supported by the Senators for YES, for ODS, for STAN, for KDU-ČSL, for Pirates, for TOP 09, for ČSSD and others. Karlovy Vary Regional Council, as it has already been done here, at its meeting 1. 2. 2021 has approved an absolute majority, and again across the political spectrum, of the resolution that supports this Senate proposal and welcomes its approval in the House. [[17.40 hours]] This proposal is not just about money. In the volumes involved, this money will not be saved by Ustecký or the Karlovy Vary Region. But there is more to this proposal. It is also a clear and understandable report to the inhabitants of these regions, that Parliament does not forget them, that Parliament perceives their situation, that Parliament perceives that these regions are long-term overlooked and pay back in many areas for being and being a dirty energy source for a large part of the Republic. That, in addition to their health and not completely comforted living conditions, the inhabitants of these regions also pay the rest of the Republic with an unfair distribution of the payments for the extracted mineral, which corrects this Senate proposal. I beg you to support this Senate version of the law on behalf of the citizens of these regions and also the senators who are members of the subcommittee for the regions in transition. Thank you for your attention and also for any support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u55	Thank you. That was the last application in the debate, so I am ending the debate. I ask if there is still an interest in the final word by the Minister as plaintiff or rapporteur. I can't see. So in that case, we should vote. I'll call my colleagues. [[Gong.]] However, I was asked for five minutes' break to catch up with everyone in the area. I don't know if five minutes is necessary, but I see a signal. So if no one objects, I'd take a break by 17.45 hours before the final vote. Let's take a break. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 17.41 to 17.45 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. However, I have registered an application with the priority right of President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u56	Thank you. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry, but since there's still a meeting going on with the Prime Minister, I've been asked to take a break for half an hour. That means I'm sorry, but I'm taking a break for the KDU-ČSL club by 18.15.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u57	It is at the request of KDU-ČSL because of negotiations at the level of political party chairmen. So if no one objects, in accordance with all previous practice, I will accept this, and I am declaring a break until 18.15 hours. Thank you for your attention and please keep us calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-09-ps2017-079-07-002-497.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members and members of the Government, we will continue our negotiations, which we have interrupted at a break, because there has been a meeting of the political party chairmen, which, however, I can already see between us, so I believe we can continue. I will wait for all Members to gather in the hall. We will therefore continue to discuss paragraph 497, which is the Senate's return to the draft Mining Act. We have suspended the negotiations before the vote, so we will now proceed to the vote under Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed, and I see that they are all still gathering, but I will make a motion for a resolution. The proposal to kidnap is: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the House press 531/10, as approved by the Senate pursuant to the House press 531/11. [[Upper Law]] I see there's still a rush in the hall, I hear an application for check-out, I've checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. So when the number of applicants is settled, we will vote on whether we agree with the text approved by the Senate. I believe everyone knows what we're going to vote on, that everyone who wants to be in the O.R. is in the O.R. Initiating vote number 302 and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the 302 vote, 169 Members and Members are finally enrolled, for 58, against 17. The motion was not accepted. So I'm saying that we didn't accept the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We've already set most of it up. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 44/1988 Coll., on the Protection and Use of Mineral Riches, so called. the Upper Law, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in which it was referred to the Senate, pursuant to the House Press 531/10.' Initiating vote number 303, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. In the number 303 vote, 173 Members and Members are registered, for 160, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you. Thank you, plaintiff, thank you, Mr. Senator. And we'll proceed to the next point. The next item is
