ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u1	335. Government bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing some related laws, as amended, and some other laws /house print 992/ - third reading Point was interrupted on 16. 6. We started discussing this point on 16 June, and the debate was interrupted at third reading. Minister Adam Vojtěch and rapporteur for the guarantee committee, Mrs Věra Adámková, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. I thank both of you and remind you that the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 992/4, which was delivered on 28 April 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 992/5. We will continue with the interrupted debate where Mr Kaňkovský is registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I believe that the sound level in the room is acceptable, if I so negotiate peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u2	Good morning. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on this amendment shortly at the third reading. As has already been said by other colleagues here, we consider this amendment to be significant, especially because of its basic mission, which is to set up predictable and clearly defined reimbursements of new innovative treatments introduced into practice and new treatments. We really consider this to be a key point in this amendment. And if I am to comment on other provisions, there we have put a wide range of questions and suggestions for some of the provisions behind the KDU-ČSL after the relatively extensive expertise of our team towards the Ministry of Health. I must say - and that does not fall on the head of the present Minister - that we received the answers very, very soon. I have asked the Health Committee to send us the answers before the second reading, so that we can respond to them with amendments, however, as is customary with the Ministry of Health recently, we did not receive the answers until a week after the second reading. I don't quite consider this fair. However, we have responded to some of the findings of our experts, along with our colleague Professor Válek and colleagues from ODS, with some amendments, but I will not return to them today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u3	Ambassador, I am going to interrupt you, and yet I am going to ask your colleagues and colleagues in the hall for peace or, if necessary, to move their meetings outside the Chamber if they are not interested in discussing this press. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u4	I would mention only two amendments, which are mentioned by the Minister here in the introductory word for third reading - or one of them. The first is the amendment under A11, which is an amendment that addresses the introduction of a so-called dispensation tax, which means the evaluation of a pharmacist for dispensing a prescription medicinal product. I want to say that this issue has been in the air for maybe four, five years, and repeatedly on a professional basis, but also on a political basis we have called on the Ministry of Health to address this problem, because the work of a pharmacist does not just take the box out of the drawer and tax it, evaluate it financially and then give it to the patient, but it really rests in a well-run pharmaceutical practice in teaching the patient how to use the medicine, what the risks of its use are, and all the other necessary information. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Health has not long heard this unsolved problem, and that is why, in cooperation with the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, we have come up with this amendment. And it is not a new amendment, because we have repeatedly called on the Ministry for a solution, and we do not insist that it must be a dispensation tax at any cost. We're just saying that the situation of small pharmacies in small houses is very critical at the moment. All the legislation and all the steps in recent years, and this, in turn, does not just fall on the head of Minister Vojtěch, record large chains in large shopping centres. We have a lot of surplus pharmacies there today, but in small mansions, and I mean communities of 1,000 inhabitants and more, there are actually pharmacies at this point in time in great danger, and even in this parliamentary term they have not been helped in any way. That's why we came up with the idea of a dispensation tax again, and we were expecting a discussion with the Ministry of Health. If the Ministry doesn't like the wording, and as the Minister said, it seems vague to them, or they feel that the sub-law can't adjust the price level, how much the disposal tax should actually do, then I would very much oppose it here. Firstly, we have a number of examples in the legislation where the sub-law regulates the price range, and this does not just concern health care. That means I take that argument as odd. [[9.20 hours]] But we were prepared to discuss other options. Either about any other way to adjust the dispensation tax legislatively, or about finding another way to help small pharmacies. It did not happen, yet I would ask you, colleagues, whether you would consider and support Amendment A11 because I really think that if all the parties, all the political entities that are here, had rural support in their electoral programmes, support for rural services, so today we have innkeepers leaving the villages and cities, we have other services leaving, branches of the Czech Post and so on. And if pharmacies are missing in some of these municipalities - and I mean those actually over 1,000 inhabitants - then don't really put yourself on election programs to improve public services in these municipalities and to restore our countryside. So much for Amendment A11. Then the amendment under the letter L, which I already gave off the committee at second reading. This concerns the issue of the highest price agreement. I want to say for KDU-ČSL that we support this institute, that we really see it as an instrument that can make our health care cheaper. This means, when the time comes and it is possible - and mostly it concerns expensive medicines - when it is possible to agree a lower price between the distributor and the health insurance company, we consider this institute to be correct. There is no way I want to contradict its meaning. What is the problem that the Ministry in its government proposal has modified the conditions for the application of the highest price agreement in such a way that risks to pharmacies arise here. And here it's not just small pharmacies, it's all pharmacies. Let me just say this for a brief example. If a pharmacy, in a situation where the price level is favourable on the market, buys, for example, a few hundred thousand certain medicinal products with good faith that it will then give to patients, so if, in the meantime, there is an agreement between the insurance company and distributors to lower the highest price, then at that point, the supplies of medicinal products that the pharmacy will have in its warehouses, the loss will actually go to the door of the pharmacy. I am convinced that it is not possible for pharmacies to bear this risk. That is why we have come up with an amendment to this institute and therefore I would like to ask you to support the amendment under the letter L. It is nothing against the institute itself, but it is about not discriminated against and unfairly opposed to pharmacies. Thank you for your attention and otherwise we are ready to support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u5	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the other speakers, I will present the House with a few facts. Firstly, Mr Juříček is present and withdraws his apology. Secondly, on the contrary, Mr Mihola apologizes to us for working reasons. Mr Zlesák requests that he cancel his apology from today's meeting, being present all day. Mrs Pekarová Adamová, on the contrary, apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons. Mrs Nevludová apologizes from 9 a.m. to the end of the negotiations for personal reasons. Mrs Válková has been apologizing since 10:30. Let's keep going. I have here an application for a factual remark from Mr Farský, but I do not see him in the hall, so it will probably be a mistake. So Mrs Adámková has the floor in a proper debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, of course, I will not comment on anything other than what you need. That is why I took the liberty of taking part in the debate because there were some views on patient organisations during the debate last time. I'd just like to say here that these patient organizations are over 130. Since 115, there has been a written agreement with the Government's bill that this is really the best way. It is because the registered association is the most transparent and because they for the first time really in history - and it is a good thing that the possibility is - it would be possible to interfere with the treatment, of course, in some way, also in the flow of money, so therefore the registered association. But of course you will decide in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u7	Thank you. Mrs Richterová will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u8	Dear House, dear colleagues, I would just like to hear it once more before we go to the vote, that unfortunately the illusion that a certain legal form will ensure the most transparent and the best is simply an illusion. And just as there are registered associations that work perfectly, and others that don't, so there are generally beneficial societies and registered institutions. And once again, what decides is the quality of functioning, how transparent and democratic the inner setting of the association itself is. But the legal form they choose doesn't make a decision. Therefore, I want to reiterate - I will give one example for all: for example, the Czech Alzheimer's society, which has been doing work for years to be priceless for all people with Alzheimer's, for their informal carers, is a society that represents us abroad, makes us a good name, so maybe it will be discriminated against in its approach to shaping our health and payment policies. This is a specific example of a society that has a different legal form, is not a society and I will stress it, cannot so-called flip over, there is no possibility from one year to another to become that association. Unfortunately, this is another mistake that is being made in connection with this amendment. Please, seriously consider this thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u9	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Aulická, then Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u10	Thank you, Mr President. As a KSČM MP, my fellow Members, I would just like to say that the debate about these registered associations is really passionate, although it does not seem. I, for KSČM, say openly today that we will support Mr Benda's amendment, which actually corrects the situation, which the Ministry of Health limits for us in a somewhat misunderstood way so that really those patient organisations can participate in those opinions and procedures, because it is a paradox that in Law No. 48, in which the patients' organizations are most interested, is then legally denied the possibility of them continuing to participate in these matters. I would like to point out, more or less, whether there was a heated debate around Mrs Richterová's amendment with regard to the midwife. I must say that we will certainly not support this amendment under the KSČM. Rather, we regret that we feel that it is really an effort to reduce the quality of prenatal care for the smallest ones, or we are at the top, the Czech Republic, in the care of the whole issue and the care. I think we could really get into a lot of trouble with this kind of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u11	Thank you. Now I have a set of factual points. I will ask Mrs Richterová whether she is entering into a debate or, in fact, whether she is entering into a debate? For the debate, okay. Now, Mrs Válková, then Mr Plzák, then Mr Benda, with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u12	Thank you. I completely agree with what the two previous speakers have said, and I very much like the fact that in this area it is retreating through the policy of the content, because one is from the pirát, the other is from the KSČM. I do not suspect that they have agreed in advance, mostly these two parties do not agree on anything, but they are right in this regard. I say this, unlike anyone who has spoken here before me as a lawyer, for whom the law is always in a way such a clue as to how to proceed. In this case, unfortunately, I must say that the content is more important than the legal form. I'm not saying that the Czech Alzheimer's society should not be transformed, but not at a time like this, under a dictation like this and with such conventions. And she's not alone. So I'm glad - the last time I heard at our club, we're gonna have a free vote, and I think that each of us, regardless of political affiliation, can decide. It's his democratic choice. Of course, some will vote in favour of the proposal, others won't. But I had the feeling that I should get out, support both previous speakers, and thus demonstrate that this is about content, not belonging to a political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u13	Thank you. I have a report from the diaper from Mr. Válek, so I'll ask if he wants priority rights. [[Yes.]] Okay. In this case, it is now Mr Plzák's turn to comment and then to Mr Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u14	Good morning. Professor, through Mr President, I see that you may have a broken diagnosis or epiphysis of the spinal bone... What patient organization represents you? Tell me, which one? [[No answer.]] None, and that's the general problem. Since the 1990s, when a Mr. Olejár appeared and was covering up for his patients, and he wanted to talk into funding, he wanted to talk to the treatment, so we always asked him who he was representing. [[years]] He said, "Patients." And I said, "I'm a patient too, but you don't represent me." And that goes for all of us, because we're all patients. Maybe we have some specific diseases, so we can go into some... But I want someone to, if they want to talk into funding, want to speak in methods for patients, so that they have a clearly declared mandate from those people, that means being elected somewhere to be allowed to speak for those people, and that's not always happening at the moment. So I'm up for the sororities, don't be mad at me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Benda, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u16	Dear Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a classic war on patient organisations. I totally agree with what Dr. Plzák said. I completely agree that patients' organizations are really supposed to represent patients, but you can't do that in legal form. That's the laziness of a clerk at the Department of Health, that's exactly how it is. It must, of course - and this is stated in the law - be reviewed whether it actually represents patients, then it can be admitted to such a decision, or it cannot be admitted. But to think that the sorority... The Clave is such a free legal form that they can make up statutes that you never dreamed of and that may not have anything to do with the members of the Clave. Likewise, all other legal forms that are elected can represent patients - they don't have to. I'm not gonna help myself in the legal form, it's really just trying to pretend that I'm dealing with something in the legal form. And I would ask very much to support the proposal made by Mr Žáček, but which is actually mine. You know very well that I, in spite of being on the Health Committee, intervene very little, but sometimes I feel that I should apply my legal education and say: here we will not solve the legal way whether they represent or not. And so is the idea that someone dictates that it is possible to transform another legal form into a society very simply, it is also completely wrong and we have analyses on the health committee. I think it's pretty clear what's going to happen in the House, but I wanted this to be said. We want them to represent patients, of course, no doubt about it, but we will not ensure it in legal form, but only by reviewing and saying: They represent patients.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u17	Thank you. We will continue with the factual remarks. Now, Mrs Gajdůšková, then Mrs Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u18	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Chamber of Deputies, gentlemen of Ministers, I must respond through Mr President to what Mr Plzák has said here. He did not set a good example because the Association of Czech Patients, for which I have the honour to speak, and I have been there for a very long time, is just the registered association and represents, of course, every patient who turns to us -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u19	Madam, I will interrupt you, then I will give you more time. But I'm gonna ask my colleagues in the room for more peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u20	So the Association of Patients of the Czech Republic represents, of course, every patient who turns to us, and we deal with this issue over the long term. But I will support the original text, because I know that it does a very good job of being celiacs, Alzheimer's, diabetics, it just does a very, very good job. And I think that we can find a model of how to work together and how to actually make health care accessible, modern so that it is quality and serve as it should serve every person, every citizen in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u21	Thank you. Now, Mrs Richterová, at this point in time, with a final point of fact. Before the microphone comes, I will introduce the House to Mr Profant's apology for medical reasons today from 9.30 to the end of the day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u22	Really just a very brief addition to the subject of patient organizations and the legal form. I would just like to point out that it is clear here that we have also tabled an amendment by me on behalf of the Pirates and the STAN movement, which is the same in terms of content as Mr Žáček's proposal, namely Benda. I just want to point out here that in the voting procedure there is a proposal that corrects the equal status of different legal forms several times. Mr Benda's proposal comes first. However, if by chance, which I don't expect, but if he doesn't pass, then there's a chance to repeat it, the House will have a second chance, with our proposal. On that point, when there is such broad support across the spectrum, the Communists have spoken, the ODS has spoken, we for pirát and STAN have made it clear that there is a problem, so I believe it will be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u23	Thank you. And that's all the facts at the moment. So now, with priority rights, Mr. Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u24	I am glad that the debate is reasonable and constructive, that it is not conflicting. Of course, in a number of cases of amendments, I am greatly influenced by the personal experience of the hospital, as many of us who are health professionals. In our hospital, there is an organisation that falls within the amendment of my colleague Marek Benda and, after all, colleagues of the Pirates, which means that I will vote in favour of my colleague Benda's amendment. I think the importance of any patient organization is extremely important. In the long term, I work with a patient organization representing celiacs, as well as with a patient organization representing patients with Crohnův's disease, and I have to say that even though I was on the Committee of the Society for Gastrointestinal Oncology and as a radiologist represented in the committee of the gastroenterological society imaging methods, so the shift in diagnosis of both diseases, the importance, the influence on the shift had far more patient organizations than with all due respect the Radiological Society that I chaired, and those gastroenterological ones, simply because it was in the interest of the patients to move the methodology, came up with various questions about why something was being done in some country XY, and forced us to go into the areas, because it was very narrow specialized problems. And, after all, remember the celiacs - even in the Chamber of Deputies, there are Members who have a personal relationship with this disease for various reasons. So remember how celiacs try to get gluten-free diets into schools, how they try to lobby celiac in a good way and explain how help is needed. And I think that's the role of the patient organizations. [[9.40 hours]] I absolutely don't understand the legal standard, but I remembered in the debate about the three-quarters of a year ago on the Health Committee when we were discussing forest nursery. I had no idea why it was a problem to make what was valid for kindergartens apply to forest kindergartens. And then the reason was simple, and I wouldn't dare say I understood him because I'm not a lawyer, but I've accepted it. The reason was that, even if both are kindergartens, we both perceive them as kindergartens, both do de facto the same thing, so forest kindergartens have a different status, so they can't have the same benefits, part of those forest kindergartens, like regular kindergartens. I believe that it is necessary to harmonise the legal standard of patient organisations. Here I would very much advocate for what was said in the debate on the Health Committee, and I would also advocate that there be a clear approach to this, because the rights and obligations, if the organisation is doing a certain kind of activity, that means protecting, helping, supporting a certain group of patients with some disease, should be the same, but I think that this can be done gradually. Therefore, the amendment - and I hope it will be approved - will lose its meaning in time when it goes into one form. On behalf of TOP 09, we support this amendment by Mr Benda. If he doesn't pass, but I believe he will, then, of course, the same ones. In that latter case, we are unlikely to support this amendment with regard to midwifes. I'm very sorry about that, but the reason is very simple. I have been moving since the beginning in the accreditation committees of the Ministry of Education, which dealt with the emergence of Bachelor's and Master's fields of non-medical medicine, and I remember the debate sometime from 1992 when I was still young and had long blond hair - well, I had long blond hair - as this debate tried to implement the Dutch model of education into the Czech Republic, when many activities in Holland were performed by bachelors and performed by masters and non-medical professionals. [[entertainment in the hall]] It is similar in Anglo-Saxon countries, especially in England, simply because in the United States wages are much higher than in England, so doctors graduate in England and go to work in the United States. And that's why the Angličan are trying to deal with it using telemedicine. They have the advantage of Ind speaking English, trying to solve it using these paths. And the result is that when we did a comparison for our terms, we found out that radiologic assistants, so these are the labs, but they're assistants, bachelors, college students, in some countries they do angiography -- so I'm going to say it very simply, even if it's not accurate, I'm sorry -- what we do, let's say, cardiologists, intervention doctors. I'm not saying it's good or it's bad. But I don't think we can move it this way by law. And I would like to thank Mrs Richterová very much for opening the subject, and I would very much appreciate it if this discussion continued and we would try to find, not only for midwifes, but generally for non-medical bachelors and masters, a dignified position, but we cannot, in my opinion, do this in this law. That is why we cannot support this amendment at TOP 09. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u25	Thank you. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will respond with a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u26	I'm so sorry I'm stalling. From the context of what I said in the first point of fact, I guess that came out. But when I said that we support or support the original proposal, I meant the original proposal by Mr Benda to support patient organisations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u27	Thank you, that was very clear. And now, therefore, Mrs Richterová, who, a while ago, applied from the diaper to the debate. There's only one application at the moment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u28	Thank you for the floor. I really don't want to prolong the debate, but I want to explain the role of the midwife... [[General disapproval in the hall. Odds from the diaper: some other time.]] It is precisely because there will be no opportunity at other times, and too many myths remain. Please, let me try very briefly and clearly. But just to sum it up, because Mrs Aulická said she didn't get it at all, it was said from colleagues in the SPOLU that the debate was to be continued, but that she would not support it. [[Sudden noise in the hall.]] In fact, I will very briefly outline what a step this is to enable midwifes to take better care of women and children in order to ease the overloaded health system. I'm really going to try very briefly, because these are examples of situations that I think each of you will be able to imagine. I really want nothing more than to clarify the scope of the spectrum of problems that remain careless today, because that is the main thing that I want women to have the highest possible care at home after childbirth. [[Big noise in the hall.]] And I'll say the first thing - breast-feeding support. Only some obstetrics offer women free outpatient lactation counseling, it is not a rule, but at the same time roughly every other woman faces minor or major problems with breast-feeding. I'll just give you an example of the fact that breast inflammation is a very painful thing where when it takes a long time to go to a doctor or to find a solution from the beginning of another, then it's no longer to be saved, it's too late. And just as an example - unfortunately, lactating counseling when women are looking for is paid and is often quite expensive. And I just want to remind you of one thing. In 2019 the Ministry of Health, or STEM, carried out research on births and breastfeeding for the Ministry of Health. One question was whether women would invite a lactating counselor home if they even knew about the possibility, and 62% responded positively. So here I'm just going to sum up the subject of breast-feeding, where the ministry of health has used the information on the necessary support for breast-feeding. He's had it since 2019. [[Permanent noise in the hall.]] The second thing - and it's really just -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u29	Madam, I'm going to interrupt you and ask your colleagues and colleagues in the room for more peace. We're getting noise levels. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u30	I don't know why it's so noisy. This took about two minutes, and the arguments are still about three, so in six minutes you can have the benefits of midwifes in a nutshell and consider whether you want it or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u31	I understand, Madame. I'm gonna ask your colleagues and your colleagues again for peace of mind. If you are dealing with other matters and discussing, please move outside the Chamber. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u32	So that was one example. Let me make the second example very clear. Screening the metabolic defects of the newborn. There it is necessary to collect blood from the cap and it is one of the things that are used to block the possibility of an outpatient birth. There are women who would like to go home after delivery, but if they don't make sure who will help them with the sampling of metabolic defects, they have a problem with that. Of course, pediatricians can do it, children's doctors can do it. But I'll say from practice, they often don't want to do it, just because it's usually done in maternity houses, and they don't have that practice. And once again, midwifes can do it, they're trained to do it again. And it's exactly the kind of situation that would help systemically, for example, at a time like the pandemic, when for epidemiological reasons it was also appropriate to support outpatient births, so if care were available at home, support at home during the postpartum period, then this would not be a blocker. It's an operation where midwifes are competent and can be performed outside the hospital's environment. That's the second argument. [[9.50 hours]] Then the third is c-section support. As far as I know, over 20 percent of the women are giving birth to a C-section. And let me just stress this again, it's a rather large abdominal surgery, and it's a situation where we're supposed to give the most systemic support to rest, so that a woman can be at home so she doesn't have to go to the first checks, for example. Ideally, pediatricians should come home in such cases. I'm looking at the Professor Svoboda we talked about. I totally agree with that, but from experience, when I ask where pediatricians are willing to go home to help control in their home environment, that's just a minimum number. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Again, this is not the ideal solution, in this case I agree with this, but for the first post-maternity check after the birthing of the C-section, the midwife could also be the solution. I say this as an example of a situation that is untreated, unsupported and has an effect on that then, and that is the fourth thing, the fourth aspect...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u33	Madame, I will interrupt you again and ask my colleagues in the hall for peace again. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u34	We're coming to the conclusion, but just postpartum blues, postpartum sadness, postpartum depression are real phenomena. Maximum support in the home environment is something that helps, and it can also help to identify postpartum depression in time. That's very important, too. So my appeal goes in the direction, I beg you, colleagues, even though this amendment is unlikely to pass today, consider that care is generally insufficient in our country at six o'clock. It is a crucial period for establishing a mother-child relationship, a crucial period for promoting breast-feeding, for starting breast-feeding. Perhaps many of you know how beneficial breast - feeding is. He has significant health benefits for life and also for the relationship between his mother and child. And I'll tell you one last thing. Midwives can be a help and support in one more situation, and that is a complete conclusion and it is very sensitive. They can support the birth of a dead child. Even after that, the uterus is caused, which is very painful, even after that the woman needs support, but is usually released from the hospital after two hours and is supposed to take care of itself. So even in these very difficult moments, midwifes may be qualified medical, university-educated, but at the same time human support in their home environment, which, I stress, in these cases... [[The MP is silent because of the noise in the hall.]] It is in cases such a difficult and sad thing that are completely unconceived in our country. I just want to really stress it. Please do not underestimate this, we have 100,000 births a year, and these problems that I have been talking about and with which midwifes can help qualifiedly relate to thousands or tens of thousands of women breast-feeding. Thank you for the slightest bit of attention you've given some of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u35	Thank you and now, with factual remarks, Mr Svoboda and then Mr Janulík. I'll ask again for peace in the hall. Any discussion groups dissolve or move outside the O.R. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u36	Thank you for the floor. I very much wish to the midwife what my colleague Richterová wants to assign to them, but as my colleague Válek said, it's a typical ploughing in front of a horse. If we want to give someone a role, they must be able to do so, and they must have an educational purpose for it. I can tell you with the probability that most midwifes do not have this training. At present, breast care and child care are not really done by midwifes. I can't imagine the sentence that was said here that I was going to solve the problem of breast inflammation. The problem of breast inflammation is a very serious matter that requires a very complicated medical decision, and in breast inflammation, the midwife could do no other thing than send the patient to the doctor. That he'd put some cold or something on it, those are all steps that could only make the situation very difficult. I would very much welcome it if we could amend and supplement the education of the midwife and then do this. At this point, if we approve, midwifes are not qualified to do it properly and well because their teaching doesn't contain it. And I'm not talking about the fact that we have Bachelor's midwifes, Magisters, and that none of them have defined what they can do and what they've learned. I am not talking about the fact that Bachelor's and Master's studies differ very little from each other, simply because the system is not drawn up. There he must reach into this university, not into competence. Competences can only arise on the basis of knowledge, knowledge and skills, not on the basis of legal approval that I have some competence. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u37	Thank you. Is Mr Kasal reporting for a debate or a factual one? For the debate. All dobře, now, Mr Janulík, then Mr Ferjenčík, with factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, notice, we've all been assigned here by doctors, even honored fellow Svoboda, and so have I. I'm in gynaecology and obstetrics. I've had 35 years of practice. And what my colleague is doing here so touchingly really touches me deeply in the sense that I am part of this business, I am even involved in its formation and so on, and that we have the results that we have today, I am talking about perinatal possibilities and so on, is the result of work, decades of ongoing activity. And she's putting it here that there's just some gap, that there's a terrible mistake. My colleague, through the President, we have almost the best results in Europe and the world because we can work in this field in this way. And there's one thing you need to tell people. The fact that we've institutionalized the births, that they're born in a hospital, which, of course, is perceived very negatively today, that's why we have the results. Because you don't understand the conventions, you can't, we don't blame you. Oh, please, home care is a nice thing, but do you know what postpartum bleeding is? In 20 seconds, human life is just gone! And we can do all that because it's in the hospital and it's got decades of development and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so on and so And you guys are so emotional about coming home. But the care is secure! I've treated hundreds of mastitis in my life and so on and so forth, so it's not like this woman has nothing to do at once. We've just helped it through an electronic recipe that even this weekend, patients call me, they have a problem and so on and so on and so on. But it's not like nothing's been done until now, and now you're coming to save it. Someone wrote it to you again and wrote it all wrong. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And it really touches me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u39	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Ferjenčík, then Mrs Richterová. [[Laughter in the ranks of members of the YES.]] Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm going to respond to a fellow Svoboda. Unfortunately, what happens here is that it is argued that serving parents might not be good enough, and this argument is used because they do not get any service and their situation is much worse. I really find this very unfortunate that in a situation where the care is not available at home, it is not really because unfortunately most pediatricians just don't come home, so we don't give care to any, which of course leads to part of the parents coming to the pediatrician personally and it can also have the complications with the transfer, and part just stays at home without control, without medical support. And that's what this leads to. Let's let these people decide. They can tell if their assistant is qualified for the support they need or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u41	Good morning, honourable Members. We will continue the debate. First, factual remarks, my colleague, Kasal, will be held back. We have the factual remarks of Mrs Richterová, Mr Svoboda, Mrs Plzák, Mrs Klaus and Mrs Běhounek. So now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to point out one particular thing that simply men - even doctors - never solve, and this is the beginning of breast inflammation while breast feeding. And that's why I want to show you... [[Rush in the hall.]] That is precisely the thing where problems can be avoided, precisely the thing where the appropriate advice can be resolved in time, without the intervention of a doctor. And what you're meeting - and it's okay and it's very good that we have such care - are advanced inflammations, those situations where either a milder form of advice and help didn't help or weren't available were not available. And I'm trying to explain to you that the fact that we have this first, field and outpatient form of helping with breast-feeding, then we develop inflammation into the worse forms that you see, but there are a lot of things that can be solved when they catch up on time. And please, this really isn't something that concerns a small number of women. This is a very common reason why she stops breast-feeding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would like to turn to my colleague Ferjenčík and, in a way, colleague Richterová. I'm talking about something else. I'm talking about the person who's gonna be able to do that. That's very important. Starting breast inflammation if you treat him badly, you'll lead him to acute, large, purulent inflammation. My request isn't about whether or not anyone can do it. It's about whoever's gonna do it has to do it! [[In an elevated voice.]] It's medicine! There's no experimentation! Either you can or you can't. It's not like making decisions in other things that I'm gonna try to screw a screw in, and if I do, I'm gonna do fine. Medicine is something else entirely. It requires that we know, know, and know why we are doing this, and do so with the knowledge of all the modern knowledge that we have at the time. This also applies to midwifes, as well as to children's sisters, and of course this applies to doctors. My appeal is nothing more than that if we give someone this opportunity and duty to teach him. I say with complete responsibility that a number of midwifes can't do what you want, because it's not in their education at all. That's the problem, not if they get it. And I would very much like it if we didn't do that - to impose something on someone that they can't do, that they can't do. The moment it's in the law, it'll be possible to demand it from those midwifes, and many of them can't do it. What are they gonna do? They're gonna say no? I don't know, try it. Try it, do medicine and say no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u45	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, Mr Pavel Plzák, will prepare Václav Klaus, both with factual remarks. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u46	Thank you. I can't help but respond to my colleague Ferjenčík. He said something here that a lot of practical doctors for children and adolescents might be offended by. He said that in most cases, doctors would not come to the home for newborns. It's not true. I don't know what data you're based on - within three days of delivery, a physician comes into the household. I've had it in my own experience because I've had two grandkids in my six months. So if you have any evidence that the doctors aren't coming, then that's a mistake and let's fix it. But I think you are not telling the truth, through Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u47	Thank you for your time on the point of fact, Mr Václav Klaus's point of fact, then Mr Jiří Běhounek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u48	Hello. When I also visited the House on this hot day, I will comment here on the dispute of a group of doctors here with Mrs. Richterová and his colleagues. I'm not a doctor, I've been teaching for about 30 years. The Czech Republic was one of the best in terms of mathematics and natural sciences before activists came and began to say: Math is not important, child must not stress anything, blah blah blah, and now we are no longer about a steamer in front of Poland, before Slovakia and comparable countries, it is in the bag. In medicine in prenatal care we are the world's top in terms of child mortality, quality of care. All our - and rich - ladies come back from America, from England to give birth home. We're a total rush hour, and this is where there's a dispute about eliminating it, doing those free home births where the lady hangs behind her feet in a lotus position, yeah, which... which is absolutely great, of course, until something goes wrong. [[Fun in the hall, applause.]] [[Voices from the diaper: Exactly.]] And look at the mortality charts 50 years ago -- women between 20 and 30 years old -- where we were, and this is what you're defending here. I have four kids, three births were perfectly fine, one, if we were to give birth at home, we have a lager or something. So I am fundamentally against these activities, and I will certainly not support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr. Jiří Běhounek, Mr. Jiří Mašek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Representatives of the government, colleagues, and colleagues, the spicy thing is that we're discussing professional matters here, and I've heard some things here five times. Do you know what this is about? This is about allowing postpartum care in a home environment without the indication of a doctor. What's next? The question of payment, the pressure on insurance companies. So we're gonna put all the other activities that go in this way in social services, health care, into the law, too? That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u51	Thank you. Now, Mr. Jiří Mašek, Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, to Mrs Richterová, through Mr President. You finally reduced it to uncomplicated mastitis. I wouldn't want to go into professional business right now, but I'd like to comment on that as a paramedic and paramedic who's been doing it for 30 years. Here it was that we were one of the best in terms of neo-Natological care. I can tell you what's one of the biggest paramedics' moths, doctors' and paramedics' paramedics in the ambulance - go to a complicated birth, a birth that's in progress, when it might be the end of the pelvic, and the baby can't be taken out, or a big hemorrhage. It's just a matter of seconds. And these kids, if they're born institutionally from the beginning, or in hospitals, they have a chance, of course, and you want to take it away from them. So I would be very careful here, and this needs to be in the hands of professional doctors, who, of course, when needed, can indicate and indicate postpartum care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u53	Thank you. Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mrs Richterová will be ready. [[Rush in the hall.]] You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to respond to my colleague Běhounek, because he has the financial pressure from the other side, because women who could leave the hospital early, but they don't have access to breast-feeding support, so they stay there longer, someone else has the money, and it also costs money. So your equation is definitely not that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, Mrs Hana Aulická will be ready. [[Noise in the hall.]] I understand that the situation is excited, and yet I ask the House for peace! [[In an elevated voice.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u56	I really don't want to prolong the debate anymore. There were just a number of things that I didn't say, so I want to point out that I made my arguments. I want to point out that today we have code 6211, a visit to a pregnant mother, six Sundays. There should be three visits in six Sundays, but this code is bound to the medical indication. And this is exactly the moment where we want to make it easier for women to just choose, and it's in support of breastfeeding, in support of everything that's connected with six-months, and it's really a difficult time for them to have that support at home. [[10.10 hours]] My whole argument is that, today, the services are unavailable, it doesn't work in a number of regions today, and we have a chance of getting a medic or a paramedic who already has the code today, has the competence and education to give her a chance to connect directly to that woman and not force a doctor's visit there, that indication. Just an exceptional, strong support in six Sundays, as it was gradually introduced in a number of Western countries. And all that's going on is really allowing maximum support for a mother and a child at home. That's all I'm asking, and I'm asking that other things not be put in my mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the de facto remark made by Mrs Aulická, then by Mr Janulík, is the last point in fact, and still a waiting colleague, Kasal. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u58	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that, above all, for women, this is a very sensitive debate, a very sensitive issue. Although my colleagues here from the point of view of doctors and people from practice talk about those experiences, I would like to say for us that we value all people, mostly women who make midwifes who make lactating counselors. But at the same time, I would like to point out that they actually work in this practice today, they usually work in hospitals, but they also work in doctors who work in the office. I have such personal experience myself, and I think that even from the position of the other mothers who have recently given birth, the care is certainly not denied. On the contrary, I think that doctors and doctors are also coming out to meet the best and broadest possible care in this area, and they themselves seek the opportunity to expand and provide these services, because it is a really very sensitive time not only for the whole family, but especially for the mothers themselves. But what we're worried about right now, and what I drew attention to here at the beginning, is that it doesn't turn into domestic uncontrolled births, because we're very concerned that there could really be a lot of situations that would turn from second to second into big disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u59	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Janulík, the last one to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u60	Thank you for the floor. Well, maybe for the last time. I see it as an attempt to pull more money out of health insurance - that's all it is! You can disguise this place any way you want with the adventure, and that's it -- you really miss any amount of humility. Don't really disguise it anymore, don't step on it anymore, you're defiling your brother and sister, you're always saying things, but you just don't talk about it! If I discuss nuclear power with a nuclear physicist, I'll shut up and listen to him. So please, you've heard our arguments, we've heard yours, enough. But really, it's just money, that's all it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u61	Thank you. It wasn't the last point of fact, but my colleague, Kasal, will be able to wait. Mr Třešňák came forward with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u62	Good morning. I would like to remind my colleague, Janulík, that this whole law is about money and how to pull money out of health insurance. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Kasal, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u64	Thank you, Mr President. It didn't work for me, and I had to apply not as a doctor, but as one who has been in health care for 27 years. We have 1,000 births a year. I was at about 6,500 births. Of course, I've never given birth, so I can't have the feelings my wife has. I'm saying this very seriously! But on the other hand, sharing emotions and being in this situation, you can perceive and understand a lot of things. And I have to say that it wasn't enough for me to note that what was said here, and I can say it's an incredible lie - what isn't caring, how bad it is - when we're in the third place in neonatal mortality in the long term, that means infant mortality, when it comes to maternal mortality after childbirth, we have one, two a year. Go see how it is in Africa, where it is not institutionalized! That's how you create pressure - what's said here that there's no child care and that there's no mother care. I told you there are lactating counselors who are private. They're children's sisters who work alone, they're not at all in the hospital. There are three or four in our 20 thousand city, no problem, enough for that number of births. If you're in a region where it's not, it'll be arranged. But here, colleagues say repeatedly, and I stand behind them, let the people who have the education do it. And again - and I deliberately looked into it: midwifes don't have enough hours of newborn care, and it's in tens to hundreds of hours. So when you put these arguments as equals and they've learned it, we can discuss it. But otherwise everything else you say here, you insult both pediatric care and the care of gynecological doctors in the Czech Republic. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] And the second thing: if I remember correctly from the previous meeting, you were talking about cleaning up at home. Well, if that's what you want to pay for health insurance, then God bless you. And from the point of view of the care, as my colleague Ferjenčík said here, who is good at money: so dear colleague, 15 years ago, a woman after childbirth, after an operating birth, was there 10 days. Now it's cut to four days, but it's not because the hospitals wanted it because it's what the women want it to be! And I always tell them when I play them: Do you have it secured at home? Will you have a husband at home to take care of you when you have a four-pound baby if you kidnap him? Because it's the pressure of people that they want early, and we suit them. That's the natural development, and that's what the services that are at home are all about. And if we're gonna talk about the mastitis so I don't go into technical terms here: well, Mrs. Richterová, there's also things like that milk doesn't come out of the breast. Those are the things you're talking about. It's not mastitis at all. And that's where the woman's teaching at the hospital and the lactating counselors are taught how to breast-feed. It's completely... what you're saying here is incredible to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u65	Thank you, Mr Kasal. Before I give my word on another, factual remark from Mr Jan Volný, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík and Mr Olga Richterová, I state two apologies from today's meeting to the President of the Chamber of Deputies: from 12.30 for working reasons, Mr Jan Čižinský and to the part of the meeting by Mr Alexander Černý for personal reasons. Now my colleague Jan Volný to make a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues, so just a little bit to the edge of what I wanted to say. I have a wife at home who's a child doctor. If she hears this, I'm gonna be embarrassed about what group I'm sitting in, because they really go to the mothers, especially the first-parents, they take care of them, and the care is perfect. But I wanted to get off on another matter because I was raised from the chair, although I'm not a doctor, Mr. Ferjenčík's claim and his sister, when they say, "We're doing this so that the mother can choose what she wants! I'm begging you to think that someday you wouldn't have any effect on the Department of Health and say, well, why prescription drugs? Let people choose what medicine they want! Please, we don't want to get in there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, will prepare Olga Richterová with factual remarks. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to my colleague Kasal, when we have developed such a very debatable way of conducting the debate, when, through Mr President, you will first come up with an argument that we are not using at all, and then you will tear it apart. This is of course very easy, but no one here has questioned the quality of Czech obstetrics. We know that Czech obstetrics is the world's top in terms of infant mortality and such things. At the same time, we say that, from our point of view, it is appropriate to extend domestic postpartum services, such as after being released to the hospital. So I don't understand why you're saying we're attacking Czech obstetrics here when we haven't said a single false word against the quality of births in hospitals. All we're saying is that women who leave the maternity ward would welcome this service in a number of cases, they would welcome the support of nursing care, they would welcome home blood collections from the cap, they would welcome similar things, and we're trying to make this service possible. So please don't use these false arguments! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová, with a point of fact, will actually be accompanied by a colleague, David Kasal, then Vlastimil Válek. That is the order of factual remarks. I hope we get to other points. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u70	It, ladies and gentlemen, always ends with people choosing and choosing what they think is best for themselves, and the task of the system is to encourage them to make the choice safe. And that's why I'm talking about the fact that, as long as the trend is already at the hospital on request, support and care should be provided at home. And I'm talking to the urgency that I'm talking to, because it's very important to respond to the trend that more and more people in life want to cope at home, such as recovery after the C-section. That's a very good example. And just as we have moved forward as a country, in various situations that were previously in hospitals, so they are happening - for example, at the end of life, you can say that this is different than this - but that we have moved into the care of the so-called community, that we are looking for solutions that would suit the part of the people who want this community solution, as well as those who leave the hospital at their own request earlier than a doctor would recommend for reasons of absolute safety. We really want to ensure and offer that there will be several visits at home. That's all, and it's just a fact that people choose their own way anyway. No House of Deputies changes anything about that, and I think it's so good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr David Kasal's factual remark, he will be prepared with a factual remark by Vlastimil Válek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u72	Thank you. I suppose I'll be here for the last time tonight. Two brief comments on Mr. Ferjenčík's colleague. When you talk about taking it from the cap, and for you it's a prick in the cap, I want to warn you that it's for a special collection material that has to be treated in some way, dried in some way and centrally sent to two laboratories in the Czech Republic. So tell me how you're gonna do it centrally. That's the first thing. And the second thing about Mrs Richterová, through you. From the point of view of caring for those children, people choose, yes, they choose. And you're saying that you don't touch the quality of care. But if those mothers go home within 72 hours of giving birth, they can declare heart defects in a child you don't know in advance, and then they'll die at home, and then we won't be in first to third place, because those midwifes won't be able to handle it. Those are the things you don't want to hear, and what the professor of Svoboda said: we're talking about professional things and what somebody wants. Okay, well, in that case, if those people want it and they want this kind of care, then let's have fun, if that's what they're gonna pay for, because we're all paying for health insurance and it's our right to be treated, but when you decide otherwise, the person should pay for it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. My colleague Vlastimil Válek has changed his application for preferential rights, so I will let him speak with the factual remark of Mikuláš Ferjenčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u74	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, too, am speaking one last time on this matter. I wanted to respond to a colleague of Kasal, who pushed us back into wishing for something. No, the situation is that women leave the hospital early, it's a real situation. And we say, let's at least offer them that service so they can have better home care. You say, I wish they'd leave later, let's not do anything. And that's the core of the dispute.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u75	I will ask my colleague Válek to wait a little longer because it is Mr Liberty's point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u76	I hope I'm here for the last time, too. I'd just like to say to my colleague Ferjenčík, through you, I'm not talking about what you're saying. I'm talking about one thing. If we want to give someone a duty or a chance to do something, they have to do it. And I say you put a plow in front of a horse because you want them to do something they're not raised to do. I am willing to work with midwifes to gain this competence in order to learn it, but I am not willing to admit that they will make decisions about things they do not know in the vast majority. There are those who want to do it. The moment we create it by law, they'll all have to do it. And whoever's gonna teach them that and how they're gonna teach them, we probably don't care anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u77	Thank you. One more factual remark from Mr Pavel Staněk. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues. I can't do it anymore, I didn't want to perform like the popular saying here. I'm an engineer, I don't understand medicine, but I feel like I'm in the parliament of an unnamed neighbourly country, when some legislators have decided to overrule Kirchhoffův's electrical laws. So, yes, we want to do better care for women. We don't care if it's good for them or bad for them, but we just have the power to vote here, so we're going to vote regardless of the impact! I don't know if this is the way to go, but I'm definitely not voting for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u79	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights, Mr Vlastimil Válek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I have not changed my mind on how to vote, but the debate is really extremely important and it is good and, once again, thank you for opening the subject up to the Member. I think that this concerns all non-medical disciplines, and there have been a number of things that are absolutely critical and fundamental here, whether or not those midwifes have an education and whether or not they are prepared to bear this responsibility and do it. I have experienced radiotherapy assistants, where the committee has pushed hard, then in a completely different political group of this House, so that they can perform an ultrasound examination separately, because in most EU countries, America, Japan, Australia, New Zealand, ultrasound examination is not done by a doctor, it is done by a radiological assistant. One of our actors, when he was working in Canada, he did an ultrasound exam. He was a sonographer, which was an education which is a college, a bachelor's, and finally he does an ultrasound. And it looked like we were finally gonna let them do it, or we're gonna let them do it. This was not about the law, it was purely about the method of payment and the negotiation of performance, and the result was that the firm resistance was then from among the member base, when they realized that they would actually have to do it now and take full responsibility for the examination. This is the first point of view that generally concerns these changes. [[10.30 hours]] The second point of view that has been expressed here, and I agree that the patient's position has changed dramatically since I started. When I started out, the patient was just standing there, we were moving him, he had an angel, he was from behind... basically going naked, and today the patient is a partner. We're giving him offers, we're giving him a choice, we're inviting him to the indicative committee, and we want him to be responsible. Many patients simply refuse to bear the responsibility - I remember the debate with one of the ministers of this culture when I said that the patient is a partner and that he was supposed to bear the responsibility, and he said it - and he was right and it is logical, because also when I am a patient, I don't want to bear the responsibility, and I always tell the doctor what I'm after: Do as you want, just as it doesn't hurt, it's quick and no matter how it works out, and I don't want to be dragged into the game because I'm old, I do - and he said the same thing: No, no, no, no, I listen to my doctor what he says to me, I do it, I don't think about it. And what we want to do here is that part of the patients for various reasons wants to leave early after giving birth before being recommended by an expert in this way. I understand that because these women must have quality care at home in some way. The question is, who is to provide this quality care for them at home, the question is, who is to organize it, whether it should be organized by the midwife, gynecologist, pediatrician or who, and the question is whether it should be covered by general health insurance, or whether it should be part of it, because it is some standard procedure - that is the birth and some period of hospitalization recommended by a professional society - and this is, say, a non-standard solution, so whether it should be covered by additional insurance or above-standard insurance or something. But the debate is complex. That means I love what you're proposing, but I really don't want it to be in this law. [[With laughter.]] I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u81	I thank Mr Vlastimil Válek. I don't have anyone enrolled in the debate, I'm done with the debate because I don't see anyone or report from the scene. In that case, I can ask the final words. Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur? It's not like that. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, I still note the apology of Mr Martin Kolovratník between 11:30 and 14:00. I will now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments, and before the vote, she expressed her views, as did the Minister. [[There's noise in the room.]] Madam rapporteur, I will ask the House for peace of mind. I am doing this because, after the heated debate, we are coming to the very principle of third reading, namely the decision on amendments and on the law as a whole. Just a little more so it'll be quiet in here. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me introduce you to the procedure that was approved at the 88th meeting of the Health Committee, which was a guarantee committee. It is the resolution of this committee number 386, which is available and is entirely in the system. This committee, as a guarantee committee, then recommended to the Chamber of Deputies in this third reading to vote on the proposals as I read them. I'll read the procedure, of course, for each proposal I'll tell you who served it, and the basic idea of the proposal. In case it needs to be specified, I have the materials here, so it will also be possible, please. It's a procedure. One. The motion to refuse has not been filed here either. The legislative technical proposals have not been submitted at this third reading, so we do not need to vote on them. We are voting on Amendments A with the exception of Proposal A8 and A11. Furthermore, the A11 proposal is in case it is possible. Design under G, D1. And I'm gonna keep telling you to everyone after that. Proposal A8 with the exception of A8.3 and A8.7. Next, according to J2. Furthermore, design B, C, D2, E1, E2, L. In the event of failure to vote, it shall be E3, F1. A set of F2 proposals, which are Mr Válek's proposals, I will then read them in more detail. Another proposal A8.3 is linked to this. Let's see how you vote. F8 to F12 and then it's bound to A8.7. Furthermore, proposals H, I1, I2, J1, K1, K2 and draft law as a whole. I beg you to vote on this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u83	So that was the draft of the procedure you have in your press 992/5. Does anyone have a reminder of the procedure proposal? If not, we will approve the procedure in the vote number 454 [[Members shall be requested to sign off.]] I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, I will vote 454 and ask who agrees with the procedure proposed by the rapporteur? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 454, from 149 in favour of 143, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We will follow this procedure. I will ask for peace again and we will deal with the first amendment. Madam rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u84	So please, nicely, the first amendment under letter A, please note that we are removing the A8 and the A11 from it is the resolution of the Health Committee that you have in your materials. The Committee's position was a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u85	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the 455 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 455, out of 150 present for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u86	Thank you. The other is... by accepting this A, we would now have to vote A11, which was the amendment of Mr Kaňkovský's proposal. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u87	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the 456 vote, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 456, from 150 in favour of 29 against 28. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u88	Another is the proposal under the letter G of Mr Benda, Žáček, as the Member said. The proposal from the Health Committee was unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u89	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] I've started voting number 457 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 457, of the 151 Member present for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[Weak applause from the right.]] Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u90	Another D1 proposal, which is the amendment of Minister Vojtěch. This is a transitional provision of one year for patient organisations. The committee has not adopted an opinion here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u91	Okay. Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] I've started voting number 458 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 458, present 151 Member, for 4, against 38. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u92	Furthermore, there is design A8 with the exception of A8.3 and A8.7. These are the details of Mr Válek's amendments, so we would like to comment on them. So it's except for A8.3 and A8.7. The Committee's position was a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u93	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 459. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 459, present 151 Member, for 102, against 18. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u94	If this amendment is adopted, J2 is an unvoting proposal, so we will not vote on it. It is also an amendment under letter B by Mrs Maříková on the treatment of couples' infertility. The Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u95	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've begun voting number 460. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 460, out of 150 present for 58, versus 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u96	Another is the amendment under letter C of Mr Štolpa and Mrs Brzobohatá. This is the amount of payments for bionic prosthetics. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u97	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 461. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 461, of the 151 Member present for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u98	Another is the proposal under the letter D2 of Minister Vojtěch. This was an agreement on the highest price of preparations and the committee did not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u99	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] I've started voting number 462, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 462, there is 151 Member, for 19, against 32. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u100	Next is the amendment under E1. This is actually the situation where the applicant attaches a preliminary arrangement with the health insurance undertaking to the application. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u101	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] I started voting number 463. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 463, present 152, 126 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u102	The next is the amendment under E2. This is about maintaining the confidentiality of contracts. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u103	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 464. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 464, present 153, for 19, against 14. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u104	Another is the amendment under letter L by Mr Kaňkovský. It concerns the reimbursement of medicinal products and the issue of the highest price agreement. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u105	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 465. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 465, present 153, for 61, versus 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u106	Another is the amendment under E3, which releases parts of the amendment point 100, where the issue of reporting the contractual price of a health insurance undertaking and a contractual provider is covered. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u107	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral position.]] I started voting number 466. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 466, 154 for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u108	Another is the amendment under the letter F1 of Professor Válek. It is an adjustment to the decision on the provision of health services as covered by health insurance and establishes there or further there the review committee for the consent of this health service. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u109	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 467. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 467, registered 154, for 10, versus 48. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u110	Furthermore, we have a complex of proposals from fellow Member Válek F2 to F6. These are, on the one hand, changes in framework contracts, list of health performances, scores, full-day presence of parents and so on. The F7 is not voteable because the existing text was written by law, so it wouldn't be anything else. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u111	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 468. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 468, present 154, for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u112	The next is Amendment A8.3 to the Health Committee. These are minor modifications that are there in the process, and the committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u113	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 469. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 469, out of 154 in favour of 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another proposal, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u114	We've got the F8 to F12 files of Mr. Válek again. This is about increasing the availability of modern central treatment. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u115	So let's solve the A8 then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u116	So, please, nicely, before we vote on a colleague of Válek, here's the legislative regulation. We voted on A8.3, which is a misguided vote, because we approved our colleague, Mr Wark, and it would be a duplicate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u117	So I declare the vote number 469 misguided, okay? [[The rapporteur agrees.]] Because it's an unnecessary step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u118	It would be an unnecessary step, yes. So please, my colleague Válek, F8 to F12, to increase the availability of central treatment with details, the committee does not recommend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u119	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 470. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 470, from 154 in favour of 62, versus 16. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u120	Since we have not adopted this proposal, the vote is A8.7, where there are minor adjustments compared to Mr Válek, and here the committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u121	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 471. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 471, out of 154 in favour of 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u122	The next one is under the letter H of colleague Třešňák. These are reimbursements for services covered by public health insurance and the new factual nature of the offences. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u123	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 472. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 472, from 154 in favour of 32, against 44. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u124	The next one is the I1 of my colleague Pavlas. These are changes in payment codes for local oxygen therapy and patches. The Committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u125	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 473. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 473, from 155 in favour of 57, against 3. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u126	The next is I2 colleagues Pavlas, reimbursement of incontinence aids. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u127	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 474. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 474, from 155 in favour of 68, against 12. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u128	Next is the proposal by J1 colleague Richterová on postpartum care by midwifes. The Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u129	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 475. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 475, 155 for 24, versus 60. The motion was denied. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u130	The next one is K of my colleague Kasal. These are changes in psychotherapy and other services provided in this area. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u131	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 476. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 476, 155 for 149, against no one. The motion was accepted. Last amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u132	It's K2. Once again, he is the main promoter of Mr Kasal. This is a modification of aprobation tests. The Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u133	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 477. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 477, from 156 in favour of 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u134	Yes, we have exhausted all the amendments, and I will ask you to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u135	Thank you. When all the proposals have been voted on, we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 48/1997 Coll., on Public Health Insurance and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and some other laws, pursuant to House press 992, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting on 478. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 478, from 156 in favour of 132, versus 2. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister, and I finish point 335.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u136	Mr President, let me thank all those who have taken part in the debate, because it has certainly been beneficial. Thank you for the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u137	Thank you. Mr. Secretary reporting. Calm down, please. The Minister of Health has applied for the floor with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u138	I also thank you so much for supporting this law. There are four years of work and this law will clearly help Czech health care and Czech patients. So thank you, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u139	Thank you. Apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies: Mr Jan Lipavský apologises from 11 o'clock to the end of the day and from 12 o'clock to 14 o'clock for the reasons of work of Mrs Pavla Golasowská. I'll ask the House for peace. Let's continue with item 352. [[Strong noise in the hall. Members are debating.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. We have time for a third reading and I will ask for peace. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček came forward with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u140	Thank you. I'm just going to vote - the final 478. I'm on the "staying" high, I voted in favour, I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-18-ps2017-104-10-001-335.u141	Okay, it's for the log. We'll continue with point number
