ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u1	5. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the amendment and termination of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Slovak Federal Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Prague on 6 November 1990, which was negotiated in the form of an exchange of notes /house printing 42/ - first reading And I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová to take the floor and present the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me revisit the proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to ratify the agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland and to amend and terminate the agreement between the Government of the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic and the Government of the Republic of Finland on the promotion and protection of investments signed in Prague on 6 November 1990. The previous Chamber of Deputies failed to discuss this material in its 8th term, so it is now being presented again to the newly established House. In the previous parliamentary term, the Government's proposal was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies and its committees as House Press No. 1217. Following the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union, agreements on the protection and promotion of investments concluded between EU Member States became incompatible with EU law, which was also confirmed in 2018 by the decision of the EU Court of Justice in the case of Achmea, whose release of the entire process for the termination of these bilateral investment agreements has accelerated considerably. The EU Court of Justice concluded in this Decision that the arbitration clauses contained in these so-called intra-EU investment agreements are contrary to Union law. [[19.20 hours]] The EU Court of Justice concluded in this Decision that the arbitration clauses contained in these so-called intra-EU investment agreements are contrary to Union law. Under the auspices of the EU, a multilateral agreement on the termination of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union was signed in Brussels on 5 May 2020. However, only 23 EU Member States, including the Republic of Finland, have signed this multilateral agreement. Some states have decided to end the agreement bilaterally. It was therefore necessary to negotiate the termination of the agreement with Finland on its own. In the autumn of last year, it was possible to negotiate with the Finnish Party the termination of the agreement, including the exclusion of the application of the withdrawal period. It follows from the final arrangement between the two parties that investments existing on the date of expiry of the existing Czech-Finnish investment agreement will no longer be subject to protection under this investment agreement for a further period of 10 years. The agreement on the amendment and termination of the existing Czech-Finnish Investment Agreement is in line with the constitutional rules and other parts of the law of the Czech Republic with the obligations arising from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union, with the obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and with the generally accepted principles of international law. The conclusion and implementation of the termination agreement will not have an impact on the state budget. On the contrary, in the absence of ratification by the Czech Republic of the termination agreement, the Czech Republic will still be exposed to potential new claims by foreign investors, despite the fact that the bilateral agreement in question is contrary to EU law. Such claims, if any, have the potential to burden the state budget. At the same time, the Czech Republic is at risk of initiating infringement proceedings by the European Commission with potential budgetary implications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Petr Beitl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u4	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. I can only join the Minister's words and recommend a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. With a point of fact, Mr. Vladimír Balaš is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u6	Hello, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to add to what the Minister said that I understand that we will be testifying on these contracts because it was agreed at European level. But we should not forget that investors from EU countries will be less protected than investors from third countries. So it would be good if we initiated a system in Europe at least in which investors would be able to protect themselves more intensively and faster than third-country investors. For the time being, they will only be relied on by national courts in the Member States. The trial may take ten years to decide, while investors from third countries will have a decision by year and a half, by two. I think that this can very much undermine economic cooperation within the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-14-ps2021-004-01-009-005.u7	Thank you very much. I think you could have entered the general debate as a standard, Mr Member. Does the secretary want to respond? [[No.]] It's not like that. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? It's not like that. I am therefore ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. [[- No. Rapporteur: No.]] This is not the case; no motion for a vote has been tabled. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the proposal to be submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I'm asking if anyone else has a motion on the commandment of the committee. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I'm gonna go first. [[Gong.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of pressing the button and raising his hand. Who's against it? 183 Members voted in favour of 166, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee. Since there were no proposals in the general debate to shorten or extend the deadline, we can end the discussion of point 5. The next item is:
