ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u1	326. Government bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy and on the amendment of Act No. 165/2000 Sb., on supported sources of energy, as amended / House print 966/ - third reading We re-interviewed this item on 19 February at the 84th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, after the announcement of a break at the TOP 09 meeting. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček took the position at the rapporteur's table. The rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, which is the Economic Committee, is Mr Petr Dolínek, who is not here. His role will be taken by Mr Kubíček. [[9.50 hours]] I would remind you that the motion for rejection and the amendments are in the Houses of the Press 966/4, which was delivered on 26 November 2020, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 966/5. Before continuing the suspended debate, it is necessary to decide how we will proceed, because on 19 February there were proposals to limit the speaking time, and Vice-President Filip suggested that each Member speak twice for a maximum of 10 minutes, Mr Lipavskýý proposed 20 minutes at most twice, and Mr Kubíček proposed a maximum of 5 minutes. The Chamber of Deputies voted on Mr Kubíček's proposal, but it is not an emergency, it is a legislative emergency, so it cannot be voted on for less than 10 minutes. Vice-President Pikal wanted to object to the procedure, and we didn't make it. Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u2	Mr President, you have said all this, so I have nothing more to add, perhaps only that decisions on the number of speeches and decisions on the length of that period can possibly be separated if we ever want to deal with this. But I don't think that's right now, because the proposals have already fallen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u3	Perhaps it would be easiest if the House voted to repeal the resolution, because it is against the Rules of Procedure, and then we would vote on the proposal, first Vice-President Filip, for 10 minutes, if it fails, the proposal by Mr Lipavský for 20 minutes. The designs are off. Well, if it's still Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u4	I am not sure that Mr Lipavský proposal should not be taken as a counter-proposal and we should vote first, or we could vote first, because these are proposals which differ only in number, where we could vote first only in orientation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u5	I agree. And since the proposals are basically just two, the third one is unvoteable, so now we have a proposal and a counterproposal, I wouldn't be going the way of an indicative vote. I am, though we may declare this resolution confusing, but I will have him vote that we are disturbing him just in case. No? [[Consulting with legislation and organizational union.]] I have a recommendation that we cancel him, that we've already voted him once. In essence, we all agree that the resolution has been voted against by the Rules of Procedure. But since the House has made that decision, it will be good to cancel it in the same way. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of repealing this resolution on the limitation of speaking time to 5 minutes because it is contrary to the Rules of Procedure? Who's against it? Voting number 60, registered is 101, for 84, against 1. The motion has been accepted, resolution 1133... number 1533 has been revoked. We will now vote on Mr Lipavský counter-proposal, so that speaking time is limited to 20 minutes, and each Member may speak twice at most. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 61, registered is equal to 100, for 29, versus 42. The motion was not accepted. And now we will vote on Vice-President Filip's proposal that speaking time be limited to 10 minutes and that each Member may speak at most twice. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 62, registered is 100 Members, for 59, against 30. The motion was accepted. To be clear, the restriction does not, of course, apply to the preferential rights and to the persons who are responsible for the presentation of the club's position. We will therefore continue the interrupted debate. And if that matches the records, Mr Čižinský should be speaking now in the debate. Is the Member not present? Yeah, it is. Well, Mr. Ambassador, your 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u6	I'd like to ask, I'm going with the KDU-ČSL club's opinion, I'm entrusted with the chairman of the club. Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I consider this House to be a disgrace, for which we must all be ashamed that we have given our votes, some of our votes, some of our votes against, some of our votes to the Dukovan over the resolution of the situation in hospitals. I really think it shouldn't have happened that we're signaling that we don't appreciate the work of doctors, nurses and other hospital staff. [[A reaction from the rhetoric.]] Chairman Faltýnek is bulging on me. I really feel that way, and if you don't feel that way, think about yourself. Now, get to the point. Minister Havlíček used to write notes carefully here at second reading, and then he didn't respond to anything. He didn't take the floor to respond. He had a closing statement, he didn't say anything, he refused arguments. Now he's not writing anything, because he's probably not going to react. I think that's another shame. I will begin with what Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček said before the opening of the debate as a representative of the appellant. Among other things, he said: "I would, therefore, like to reiterate, in view of the political debate, that this law does not address, and it is important to keep saying this, security issues. This law addresses the economic and financial provision of new nuclear resources, the principle of electricity buyout, not only from new blocks in Dukovany." End of quote. Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček, I don't know if he wanted to or accidentally, one of the major shortcomings of the draft. After all, the economic and financial aspect of the project to secure new energy sources, which will be in the hundreds of billions of crowns, cannot be separated from the security requirements of our country. In doing so, the government rejects the opposition's amendments which aim to remedy this very lack, which, by the way, goes against the warning of security institutions, whose positions the government, even Minister Havlíček, has requested. I am talking here about the opinion of a working group composed of experts from the Ministers of Interior and Foreign Affairs, Security Information Services, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence and the National Bureau for Cyber and Informatic Security. The Vice-President of the Government stated in his speech: "The search for a very important consensus on the security requirements of the State, and no one is questioning them, is taking place at a different level within the supplier's tender. In particular, a meeting of the chairmen of all political parties, as promised, was also convened. It took place at the end of January." End of quote. Yes, the meeting took place. The Deputy Prime Minister said after her that the government was not counting on China's participation in the nuclear tender. That's good news. However, I do not understand much about the difference between China and Russia in terms of geopolitical risks, especially when our national security institutions clearly warn us about both countries in relation to energy projects. The already mentioned working group of security experts considers the optimal and only really safe procedure not to address in the tender candidates identified in government documents as risky. [[10.00 hours]] The working group report also states that "if risky candidates are contacted, the room for manoeuvre for rejection will be significantly smaller than at present. According to experts, the participation of these entities in the tender itself may cause the Czech Republic to be easily at strategic level blackmailable by the risk entity or by the State from which the entity originates. The last report of the Security Information Service of the Czech Republic in the chapter entitled Protection of Important Economic Interests also highlights the security risks associated with investment in energy. It says here that in 2019 the BIS focused on risky activities related to several strategic projects, whose importance for the security of the Czech Republic was greater than the framework for the protection of important economic interests. These included, in particular, projects in the field of energy and information and communication technologies. To a similar extent as in previous years, the BIS described the risks in the field of interference with the activities of regulatory and supervisory authorities of the State which were directed against the independent performance of their functions. The BIS also recorded a number of other cases of illegitimate lobbying, clientelism and corruption, which had a character comparable to the previous period. In 2019 the state and its controlled companies launched or continued to implement several economically significant projects, which also had a strong relationship with the security interests of the Czech Republic. Their preparation, implementation and completion were directly linked, in particular, to certain strategic security interests, such as ensuring energy security, cyber security, and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. However, with regard to their economic scale and the extent to which they influenced strategic security interests, they also had an impact on ensuring life's security interests, such as the political independence and sovereignty of the Czech Republic." I'm still quoting the report. "The most significant risk that was common to all monitored cases may have been the participation of problematic entities with the ability and incentive to exploit their position in the project to achieve their own particular interests or to achieve the objectives of a third party, such as foreign power, contrary to the interests of our country. These risks could be met, depending on the nature of the project, mainly through misuse of access to a large volume of sensitive personal, economic or security information, or through the creation of supply dependence from a risk supplier and subsequent conditional completion of projects by economic, political or security requirements. Threats may also arise in these cases by continuing dependence on suppliers even after the completion of projects with all the typical consequences, the so-called vendor lock-in. In the sense of the risks described, entities originating in countries where the administration has the possibility to promote its foreign policy objectives, irrespective of the economic interests of its companies, including private ones, may be considered problematic. The issue described is also closely related to the topic of risky foreign investment and the mechanism for searching for related security threats. It is the origin of an investor in a country with authoritarian features that, like the projects mentioned above, is one of the important factors affecting the risk assessment of a particular investment." That's what the BIS says for 2019. I would like to take a closer look here with you at the solution to the security requirements of the state, which, as I have pointed out earlier, is undoubtedly related to the present law and must be related. If we are to approve a law here, which, as Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček says, only addresses the economic and financial security of a project, and at the same time we are told that the security aspects of the same project are dealt with separately, it is our duty, and I am deeply convinced, to learn how these security aspects are dealt with before we decide whether or not to raise our hand for this law, the House Press 966. Without A, we simply cannot say B, and this is true for us, for every Member who is in this House. Experts of the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Security Information Services, Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence and the National Cyber and Information Security Office, which, and I must remind you again, the Government itself commissioned to draw up an opinion, was based on the fact that the Czech Republic chose a partner for about 80 years. Let's all see how old we are, or our children, or our grandsons, in 80 years, let's also see what year it was 80 years ago, what was the technique and what the resources were then. Therefore, it is necessary to be very careful when choosing a candidate and to take into account a number of aspects, inter alia, the aspect on which companies and states can be dependent in the next decades on electricity supply and on whom they must not be dependent for various reasons. As a risk, experts have also assessed the dependence that would arise if the risk candidate were a supplier of a new nuclear source, even as a member of the consortium. The consultation of experts with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and with the team of the government agent has shown that both the position of the main supplier and the status of a member of a potential consortium gives any dangerous supplier the opportunity to delay, block, demand compliance with the requirements that the Czech Republic would otherwise not be willing to meet. In other words, there may be a dependence on a supplier who will be able to blackmail our country, the Czech Republic, at a strategic level. Experts also assessed the possibility of excluding dangerous suppliers by a government decision as an instrument for protecting security interests. They also assessed a number of ways to exclude dangerous subcontractors. They stated that in the direction of the supplier, the tender documents gave this possibility to the government only after the entire two-year tender took place for security reasons. According to the documentation, the State has a number of options to interfere with the designation of subcontractors. In this respect, unlike the applicant himself, the possibilities of the state are paradoxically wider. In general, the entire tender tender documentation provides for the possibility for the State to obtain information, documents for the course of the tender and the like. In theory, there is still a possibility to withdraw for security reasons from the contract already concluded with the selected supplier, but this would completely stop the whole project. The experts entrusted by our government thus concluded that the termination of the contract with the supplier is the only tool in the tender documentation that allows for the risk to the security interests of the Czech Republic, which would appear only after the selection of the candidate and the conclusion of the contract with him. In their opinion, however, they questioned that such a procedure could be applied in reality, that such a situation would actually occur. There is a possibility to complete the construction without an EPC supplier and the documentation mentions the obligation of the supplier to provide all the necessary assistance for the completion of the power plant, but in practice, in particular, if the termination for geopolitical reasons would occur, the fulfilment of this assistance obligation cannot be reasonably expected. Just if there's a conflict, of course, the contractor won't fulfill the contract. Both of these possibilities to reverse the selection of the tenderer, i.e. the rejection of the tenderer or the termination of the contract with the supplier, are only instruments reactive and also extreme, and therefore both suffer a similar weakness according to experts. For one thing, their use would mean significant losses in financial terms, loss of time, loss of confidence in the state's ability to secure this important project and, on the other hand, their use would probably mean the opening of a number of litigations or arbitrations. [[10.10 hours]] Thus, in the opinion of the experts, they are relatively inefficient, because the possibility of government using them will be very reduced when considering all their consequences. Compared to the Tripartite First Implementation Agreement on Cooperation in the Construction of a New Nuclear Source in Dukovany, the Czech Republic, which mentions a mechanism enabling the investor to pass on security requirements for subsequent incorporation into partial contracts, the procurement documents provided by experts for the issue of a joint opinion do not have this mechanism modified at all. Experts therefore note that this mechanism needs to be incorporated into the contract. The expert report also draws attention to the paradox that documentation gives a number of options not to approve dangerous subcontractors, but it gives practically only one tool to treat the problem of a dangerous candidate as the main supplier. At the same time, security forces identified and government-approved endangered interests were primarily concerned with the level of hazard of the tenderers themselves and not primarily with subcontractors. In this respect, the procurement documents according to experts do not sufficiently take into account the key security interests set by the government. The identified security threats according to the table, which experts received on request from the Ministry of Industry and Trade and which describes how these security threats were incorporated into the documentation according to the investor's view, are somehow commented on 17 in the table. But only five of these threats are really addressed. This, according to experts - and I believe that even in the opinion of anyone who actually thinks about who looks at the numbers - shows that the security interests that the investor had and actually this law will all be investors to some extent, because we will bear the consequences of the investment - and here we need to stress the negative consequences again, because if it were at least likely that the consequences would be positive, then the law would not be there at all - so it shows that the security interests that the investor was supposed to work and protect in the documentation are not incorporated and protected enough. The members of the expert working group further note in their opinion that many of the measures listed in this table include the inclusion of security threats in the documentation are standard, obvious security measures, such as compliance with the requirements of the law and other regulations on cyber security. It would therefore have to comply with virtually any project or critical information infrastructure, even if a special study on threats related to the construction of a new nuclear source had not been carried out. A number of measures listed in the table are not at all addressing the security interests identified in the above mentioned First Implementation Agreement on Cooperation in the Construction of a New Nuclear Source and the Procurement Documentation. A number of measures, according to experts, are also of the nature that they do not address the nature of the security problem, only lightly alleviates it. Experts also requested that the diction of the provisions be clarified so that it is quite clear that the State can intervene in the process for security reasons at any stage of the preparation of the tender, during and after the tender itself. In this context, they ask, in their opinion, whether it is sufficient to justify the use of the exemption from the Public Procurement Act pursuant to Section 29a, which are serious safety reasons, only that the State is given the opportunity to rebut the applicant who wins the tender. The Working Group is concerned that the mere establishment of this possibility to refuse back the applicant by the Government is not enough for the assessment bodies to apply this derogation, i.e. the European Commission, the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Courts, and the entire project could subsequently fail in this negative opinion. Therefore, according to the working group, this is one of the key issues on which the design of the project is based. This is because it will not be implemented under the Public Procurement Act. It must be noted that the interpretation of Section 29a by the Gestor of the Act, i.e. the Ministry of Regional Development, has changed radically during the preparation of projects in the last two years. Originally, the Ministry did not consider the application of § 29a as possible, subsequently changed the opinion completely and now considers it possible. Therefore, the key basic security interests of the process, including the procurement documents, must be actually proven and treated in an indisputable manner. We cannot accept a situation where, on a mere legal issue that changes the view of the Ministry - and as we know, the ministries do not interpret these legal issues, so courts do - so there is no way to accept a situation where, on the mere legal issue of the application or non-application of this paragraph of the Public Procurement Act, the entire project procedure may go bankrupt in one of the key proceedings, whether judicial in any judicial instance or before the European Commission. The expert opinion notes that the ongoing time and progress of the entire project will increase the difficulties and problems associated with possible efforts of security problems, and especially those already in existence at the beginning of the process, to resolve without significant costs or losses, whether financial, time or politically. The maneuvering space for the government will be very radically narrowed with the project process. The working group also came to the conclusion - and this is very important - that the set conditions seem, in principle, to exclude some potential candidates. This is related to the requirement for the existence of a already built reference power plant with the required power. The specific conditions exclude ATMEA, which does not have a reference nuclear power plant, and KHNP, whose reference power plant does not have power up to 1,200 MW, as required by the tender documentation, but 1 400 MW. This is similar to EDF, which wants to offer a 1 000 MW reactor as a reference, but it has not yet built it has only a reference reactor of 1,600 MW. At this point, I would like to point out that according to my information, the required reference power plant with a capacity of 1,200 MW only has Rosatoma. It is then a big question of how strictly this criterion will be applied in the selection process because it could easily be used as elimination. The experts therefore proposed to modify the text of the tender documents relating to the reference power plant so that it was built on the basis of the diction in this section that one of the tenderers would not be excluded. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to vote in favour of this law here without knowing how this condition will be applied in the tender. As an essential reminder, the Working Group has submitted a proposal to put in the tender documentation several basic safety parameters that each candidate or all members of any consortium would have to meet. The requirement for the establishment of such minimum safety requirements is based on the conclusion of a Government-approved document Report of the Working Group of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Energy on issues relating to the State's security interests in the field of nuclear energy, revision number 04, which appears on page 21. Thus, this government-approved requirement cannot be ignored in the procurement documents. This requirement also requires, by the way, that interested parties be tested against these requirements before being invited to submit tenders. Without these criteria, there would be paradoxically only economic or technical criteria in the procurement documents, which may be elimination criteria for some applicants. However, even more significant safety criteria, which are even required to include the first implementation contract under Article 4.6, would not be included in the procurement documents. Such a situation would indeed be very difficult to justify. [[10.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have quoted and commented on some of the fundamental comments from the report of the working group of experts, the working group of security experts, which the government itself has addressed, and I must emphasise here again, the government itself has commissioned an assessment of the security risks of the tender for the completion of the nuclear power plant to this group of experts. The document also contains a summary of the essential comments and notes the following: "The State has been given extremely little time to process the comments on the procurement documents. It is therefore not possible to fully guarantee the completeness of this opinion from the point of view of protecting all the security interests of the State. The procurement documents reflect the government's approved security interests insufficiently, with the interests which the first implementation contract undertook to incorporate into the procurement documents. The undertaking was therefore not sufficiently fulfilled. We therefore require the following essential comments to be incorporated into the procurement documents, in particular the inclusion of safety criteria." End of quote. In addition to the essential comments, the report contains a number of other recommendations, which I will not mention here. The entire report was published by the Ministry of the Interior on its website in September last year on the basis of the requirement of Act 106 and then some media. I know that since then there has been further negotiations between the investor and the government on the final form of procurement documents, but I do not know whether and how the recommendations of security experts have been or will be taken into account in the procurement documents. And frankly, I doubt that every MP here knows that. I very much ask that we do not approve of the law currently under discussion until we know this information. Given that the procurement documents have several thousand pages of the text, I will propose, at the end of my speech, that after the debate, we decide to repeat the second reading of the law. We should continue the discussion only after we have received sufficient information from the government on the settlement of comments from the working group, from which we can make a judgment as to whether the security interests of our country, the Czech Republic, are sufficiently protected in the context of the project for the construction of a new nuclear source in the procurement documents and whether we can raise our hands for the law, with a calm conscience, or whether the ambition of the amendments will address security issues directly in this law. Indeed, it is not sufficient to treat this with a mere accompanying resolution by which the House would call on the Government to inform without delay all security and foreign policy parameters of the selection of a supplier for a new nuclear source, in order to proceed without delay with regard to the security of the Czech Republic, in order to inform without delay about further progress in the construction of a new nuclear source, including the assessment of the risks of delaying the project for energy security and for electricity supply, and to adopt without delay a clear and transparent binding procedure to set the upper limit guaranteed by the purchase price and its calculation at the time of the changes proposed. The accompanying resolution, ladies and gentlemen, is only a fig leaf. Accompanying resolutions are completely useless. I would like to go back to the economic and technical aspects of the construction of a new nuclear source, which is a subject that I have more or less followed during the previous hearing of the law. First of all, I would like to respond to Mr Babka's colleague. On 10 February in the debate, he spoke of an independent study that was commissioned by the European Conservatives and Reformists, and he said, among other things, I will quote: "In order for the Czech Republic to generate 1,800 petajoules of wind and solar energy, it would require space of 14,630 square kilometers, or 43,758 square kilometers. This would mean claiming 19 percent or 55 percent of the land available in the Czech Republic. To achieve the same level of electricity production using nuclear energy would require more than 269 square kilometres. Let's do the math. The 1,800 petajoules are less than 500 terawatt hours. In order to cover 44,000 square kilometres of photovoltaic panels, this would mean that the annual yield of these photovoltaic panels would be about 11 kilowatt hours of electricity per square metre. With photovoltaic panels so low, no one would ever invest a crown in photovoltaics, because even with generous subsidies, costs would never come back. The realistic value of this parameter for today's commonly sold photovoltaic panels will be around 150 kilowatt hours, i.e. about 14 times greater than what my colleague Babka mentioned here. This will, of course, reduce all other figures, and therefore the conclusions on cost efficiency and the economy of the whole solution will fundamentally change this. In his speech in the debate, Mr Zahradník, a colleague of Mr Zahradník, focused, among other things, on the storage of electricity produced from renewable sources so that it could be used at a time when the wind is not blowing and the sun is not shining. He spoke of energy storage in microconditions of individual family houses, and in this context he said - quote: "If we wanted to satisfy the Czech Republic's hourly consumption, if there were no resources available, only from the energy stored in the battery, at current prices it would cost the capacity to build 250 billion crowns per hour, for the whole day it would be six trillion, three of our budgets. These are huge prices which the supporters of renewable energy sources are not well aware of." Here I partially agree with the lithium battery from Tesla with a capacity of 3,000 kilowatt hours, which corresponds to the need to stock the summer overproduction of electricity from photovoltaic panels for an energy-efficient house that will enable it to be energy-sufficient during the rest of the year, costs something between CZK 6 million and CZK 8 million, i.e. more than the whole house. For technical reasons, it is also difficult to produce batteries that will have a capacity-to-price ratio better in order. But it is possible for the concept of power-to-fuel, where it is complex, expensive hardware, storing electricity into some working medium, and it is minimized. As a result, with sufficient energy efficiency, energy storage costs can eventually be limited to the price of this medium's storage tank. The only medium still under consideration with high energy conversion efficiency is hydrogen, but it suffers from low volume energy density and resulting high tank costs. Just for example. If existing autumn gas storage tanks are to be used for hydrogen storage, their capacity in kilowatt hours of stored energy will be only 30 per cent of the capacity they have when they are filled with methane at the same pressure. At present, energy density is the best in fuel quotation marks that are able to convert directly into electricity and back, sodium and potassium. If it is confirmed that it is possible to build fuel cells on sodium, then thanks to high energy efficiency, alkaline metals can compete with fossil fuels at today's prices of energy from solar or wind power plants. At the same time, projects using sodium sulphur batteries already exist. One of them is gradually built in the United Arab Emirates, consisting of 15 storage sites involved in ten different locations of Abu Dhabi, involved in a virtual block, which can be said together as one large battery. [[function]] A dozen of them have a maximum power of 4 megawatts. It's filled with three larger, 20megawatt batteries. The whole facility could power a large district city of Czech format for several hours. [[10.30 hours]] Would any similar technical solution be useful and beneficial in the conditions of the Czech Republic? We don't know. And why don't we know that? Right here, in addition to the impending economic effects on final consumers, I see the biggest problem of the present law. The preparation of his draft, very hasty, as I have already mentioned, has clearly not been supported by a thorough search of technical solutions relating to the production of electricity and could be appropriate under the conditions of our country. The final report on the evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation basically does not contain any analysis, only copied passages from the state energy concept of 2015. If we want to address the energy security of the Czech Republic at the core, the public, and we ourselves, should know that we are reaching for a solution that, in terms of thermal efficiency, is practically at the same level as 50 years ago, when the concept of pressure-water reactors began to promote significantly for its simplicity and relative safety in nuclear energy. The latest report in The World Nuclear Industry Status Report, which follows global developments in this field, eloquently explains the real state of the nuclear industry. Of the 19 new nuclear power plants scheduled to open for 2019, only six, three in Russia, two in China, and one in South Korea work. On the other hand, five power plants, two in the United States, one in Switzerland, Sweden and Germany, were terminated prematurely in the same year. The fact that the construction and construction of nuclear power plants are particularly successful in countries that are not exactly... are no exemplary democracies, which I think should worry us rather than calm us down. And while two thirds of the current two-and-a-half built-up reactors are delayed and overpriced against the original assumptions, we are not discussing here at all, or very little about whether or not there is a better option, whether the promotion of any specific technology that exists at the moment could not shift us from 50-year-old technology to the future. I'm sure someone here will argue that such a discussion has already taken place here in the past. But today's technology level is somewhere else. Over the past ten years, the price of electricity from solar sources has also fallen by almost 90 percent, while the price of energy from wind power plants has also fallen by about 90 percent. By the way, the average price of core energy over the same period increased by more than 20 percent. The technique is able to develop extremely quickly when appropriate conditions are created. Thirty years ago, none of us could carry any phone in our pocket, no mobile phone with computing power and storage capacity at the level of a decent computer. Solar panels with their price were more suited for astronauts than for reducing the electricity bill in the family house. The knowledge of this should be extremely humble and cautious in planning any major investment that assumes the fixation of technology at the current level for decades or can point us towards it. And this is where we've been dealing, like I said, for 80 years. If we are to take a responsible assessment of the government's energy programme, we should also deal with other concepts presented as possible alternatives to further development of energy, possibly as possible variants or alternatives to its transition to renewable sources. There are already technical options for the launch and gradual implementation of a complete and economically advantageous transition of the European economy to energy from renewable sources. The work on this transition can be started right now. There is no need to rely on the creation of new, unknown technologies. Just apply some well-known technologies on a scale larger than they have ever been used before. Let us not spend the resources to prepare investment in already obsolete technologies, which are current nuclear power plants, and we will be involved in European efforts to develop renewable resources. Existing nuclear power plants should remain an important element of the energy system, longer than fossil fuel power plants; and finally preserved as possible backup sources. I would sum up the paraphrase on the title of the article that I recently read on this subject. Investing in a new nuclear power plant nowadays is just a little better idea than investing in the production of steam locomotives. I'm not offering a solution here, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just saying that the preparation was very sloppy, and the preparation doesn't compare with any possible objections. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. As I have announced, I am proposing that we decide, after the end of the debate, to repeat the second reading of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u7	Good morning, honourable Members. This was Mr Čižinský with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL. Before I give the floor to Mr Pavel Žáček, a colleague of Lipavský, Zahradník and Langšádlová will take factual note. So I'm taking note of the motion to repeat the second reading. Now, Mr Lipavský, two minutes on the verdict. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I think that Mr Čižinský's speech was quite exhausting and the conclusion is also quite clear. What the coalition of the KSČM, SPD and YES parties here, we might call it some kind of Russian coalition, or I don't know what else to call it, but today it's a fascinating sight. The Minister seems to have been speechless here in plenary, and he is not worthy of speaking once, reacting to something, he obviously does not have the need, but does not mean that he does not comment on these questions. I, for example, noted the remarks made by Minister Havlíček at the meeting of the Energy Třebíčsko, which had a general meeting on 22 February, and there we could learn such pearls that the cost of this project would be paid by the state, before it should have been ČEZ. So it's supposed to be a new state. Well, I'd really like to know how much it's going to be, Minister, if you have that information, or if you could correct that statement in any way. And I would also require an apology from you because you said the pirát didn't want to build the core. I don't know how you figured out where you got this information. You are saying this repeatedly, and I believe that this is nothing more than a lie, because if you look at our media performances, you know very well how we talk about the core, that we have very constructive conditions, very constructive comments. And that blindness of yours, where you probably want to be attracted to certain interest groups, makes you talk about us like that. [[President: Mr. Ambassador, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u9	Now, Mr Jan Zahradník's factual remark, my colleague Langšádlová will prepare for a factual remark. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u10	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members. I am a member of the debate, so I will speak briefly in a proper discussion, but since my colleague Čižinský named me in his speech, I would like to clarify what he said first. My calculations are perfectly reasonable, based on the capacity and price of the battery storage that currently works in Planá nad Lužnicí, or the 250 billion, or 6 trillion, these are no finger numbers sucked out, but the real reality. Secondly, very surprisingly for me, my colleague Čižinský expressed the opinion of his MP, which I had to translate so that his club rejects nuclear energy as part of our energy mix and wants to bet on completely fatally unreliable renewable resources, which, as we have seen recently, simply do not work and are not able to provide energy in any way. That's quite a political statement for me that I got from his speech today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u11	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. Now Mrs Helena Langšádlová's factual comment, and there will still be a factual comment from my colleague Čižinský. A colleague of Žáček will be able to wait. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to begin by saying that the TOP 09 is not in principle against nuclear energy. We are aware that it can and should be part of our energy mix. But at the same time, it must be said that the technologies are moving forward very quickly, that we also have modular reactors, they are evolving, and very soon they will be available, and that these new forms of energy resources will be much more flexible to prepare the site, to prepare the construction itself. That's why we should look forward. We are still looking back, and in a very dangerous way, in a way that could endanger our sovereignty and security. I would like to say that as far as energy is concerned, I consider it very important that we sit again over the state energy concept, so that we can think about the possibilities of new technologies, whether renewables or new forms of nuclear resources, because we must not be attached to 20th-century energy. We need to look at modern resources that will build the 21st century energy system. I understand that there are still those who look back to the 19th century and want to build some Danube-Odra-Labe channels, but we really live in the early 21st century. We must build a modern country with a modern economy and not be bound by the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Jan Čižinský's factual comment. A colleague, Třešňák, will prepare himself for a point of fact. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u14	Thank you. I would like to respond to my colleague, the Zahradník, through the President. Ambassador, you didn't really listen to me, probably. Please don't say impressions. Say what I said here. I said that other options are sloppy there, that simply a justification for going this way in the law that we are assessing here, and in all related documents, that the possibilities have not been properly assessed and properly stated. I understand the experience of Planá nad Lužnicí, I argued the experience of Abu Dhabi. I would assume that both the experience of Planá nad Lužnicí and Abu Dhabi will be part of the document, there will be justification for why it can or cannot be used. And that didn't happen. So please don't twist my words around here. I was clearly stating what I was saying, you're making far-reaching consequences of this, so don't. When I was quoting your quote, I was saying that you're basically right, if you just take the battery that's taken from Tesla's car, it's obviously gonna cost a lot, because if we buy Tesla cars to make it last to accumulate some energy, of course it's hard to imagine a more expensive option than to buy Tesla's batteries, but at the same time I said that the base should have dealt with other options that are already in the world, it means not with any air locks, and to say why this way or why not, and why this route is chosen. That's all I said. All I have against nuclear power is that I want to know that other roads are wrong, so to justify this procedure, and the procedure was not justified. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u15	That was a colleague of Čižinský. Mr Třešňák's point of fact and Mrs Langšádlová's second point of fact. Then a colleague Zahradník and Plzák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u16	Good morning. Maybe I'll start by reacting from the end to the battery technology in Abu Dhabi. Here I would just add one fact that four blocks of the Barák APR-1400 nuclear power plant from South Korea's supplier were also built in Abu Dhabi, so that emirates also invest in the core, not just in battery technologies. But to respond to a colleague of Čižinský who compared nuclear energy here to a steam locomotive, I really wouldn't dare because overall nuclear research and nuclear energy has a tradition here since the late 1950s and it continues to be a promising field, which will definitely develop, whether in the direction of small modular reactors and so on. So I certainly wouldn't waste nuclear power like that and compare it to a steam engine. But if I could repeat again the question of my colleague Lipavský to the Minister, at the General Meeting of Energy Třebíčsko there were really such speculative statements, and I can quote that the pirát are against the core, and also towards KDU-ČSL there from your mouth, Minister, it was said that KDU-ČSL really wants the core, but only plays pre-election political games.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, a factual comment by my colleague, Langšádlová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u18	Thank you for the floor. In my previous factual point, I also spoke about the energy context and the situation in which we are, but of course, the most important thing is that we defend our security interests. This is not happening, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, and you are very responsible for this. You are the bearer of the government guaranteeing that in the contract signed between the state, ČEZ and EDU II, everything that the government has accepted in its materials will be translated into procurement documents. According to the information we all have, which at this moment is also from the document signed by your colleague Hamáček, simply from the security interests of the state, 17 of the clearly defined were rejected 5. And that's the most important thing. And Mr. Vice Prime Minister, I beg you to comment on this so that we know where we stand. In short, the steps that the government is taking to address Russia, despite the fact that the vast majority of the citizens of the Czech Republic are fundamentally opposed, is indeed a huge gamble with our sovereignty and with our future. I would really like to ask you very urgently, Mr Vice Prime Minister, to make this clear to us that not only 5 out of 17 but 17 security requirements of the state approved by the government will be translated into procurement documents. That's what we want to hear from you here. I think at this point, if that's not the case, we need to meet with the party chairmen, call a government committee and interrupt this point. That's why I'm suggesting it by 20. 4th of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u19	Madam, are you suggesting it now or forward? Now, okay. In that case, I have three factual points ahead of me, and then my colleague žáček is still on hold. I will perform because the proposal for an interruption, which is in favour of the vote, is to interrupt the meeting of the political party chairmen and the meeting of the Permanent Nuclear Energy Commission. I will wait until the number of Members is sufficient. Let me just remind you, before my colleagues and colleagues settle down, that I'm adding the actual notes in 20 minutes. I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. For the arrivals, I note that Mrs Helena Langšádlová has tabled a procedural proposal to interrupt this point at third reading by establishing two conditions: the meeting of the political party chairmen and the assembly of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Energy. [[10.50 hours]] We have enough entries, so I'm gonna run the vote number 63, and I'm asking who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 63, 77 in favour of 23 in respect of 47. The motion was denied. We will continue with Mr Jan Zahradník's factual remark. A colleague Pavel Plzák will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u20	Mr Vice-President, I will address my colleague, Mr Čižinský, with your permission. Be so kind as to tell him that in my calculations, which preceded the calculation of battery storage prices, which I think I presented here in some of my performances, I did not come out of any Tesla batteries' prices or capacities, but from the reality of the largest battery storage in the Czech Republic, which stands in Plana nad Lužnicí and which will actually lead to the 250 billion for hourly consumption and 6 trillion crowns for daily consumption. The battery storage is just very expensive, and if we decide to bet on it, then energy consumers, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic, will have to pay the cost of operating solar power plants today in the form of a solar surcharge on the price of one kilowatt hour each of us pays when paying our energy bill. Thank you, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u21	I thank my colleague Zahradník. Now, Mr Pavel Plzák, a colleague of Čižinský will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u22	Good morning. I stayed here in the hall and listened to the discussion. I'm no energy expert, and I'm taking some of the knowledge out of it. First, a warning of everything that is from China and Russia, in terms of security. Then there was the unforsaken nuclear energy, the view of modern technologies, the nuclear reactors of the fourth generation, which are able to use energy in spent fuel, where there is still quite a lot to hide. We've been talking about these reactors for a long time. I've heard about them ten years ago. And we had a safety conference here in the last term, Mrs Drábová from the nuclear institute, I asked her, she said that the development of these reactors - do you know where she is? China. China! They're the furthest, which means if we look at safety, we'll probably never see those little nuclear reactors here. And then even in India, to be complete, maybe one day we'll bring the technology back from India. The second thing about solar power: I have a solar power plant on my house, but without subsidies, I wouldn't have paid for 20 years. Those prices didn't drop significantly until today when I was building it sometime in 2010 and 2013. And then one technical point for my colleague Čižinský, through the President. Can you tell me how long the battery has been recharged for the same capacity in Abu Dhabi and Planá nad Lužnicí? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, a colleague of Čižinský on a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u24	Thank you. I'll try it one at a time. So, of course, how long it's been charging depends on what you're charging it with, what technology you're charging it with, so, of course, that's how it recharges. I think you meant the solar power plant. So battery recharging depends on what technology you charge from. Then I would like to respond to the speaker through Mr President, Mr Zahradník. Ambassador, you're gonna... or something. This House, maybe you don't, I don't want to hurt you, but this House, and I assume, unfortunately, the coalition of KSČM, ČSSD, YES, SPD, is about to approve an atomic tax. If anyone's defining themselves against a solar tax, this law is only here because it's an atomic tax that people are going to pay in their electricity bill. If it wasn't, then the law isn't here, because if CEZ had a project that would be clearly successful, on which he would earn, then this law doesn't need it here. That's just the way it is. That means who's defending this law here, in fact, in a few years' time, if this project goes to the end, which is not at all certain, as I said here from the other nuclear power plants, there will be an atomic tax. And I'd like to respond to my colleague Třešňák. I'm not the one who's damning nuclear power, it's a misunderstanding. Like I said, it's very... It is also a forward-looking field, I agree with that, through Mr President, modular reactors and so on, and here I have to disagree, even in the UK they are very far away, so that is something we should talk about. And this is also something that should be described, why it goes this way and does not go the way, for example, of smaller reactors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u25	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a factual comment from the rapporteur, then a colleague Jakob, Gajdůškovášková and Třešňák will be prepared. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't even want to comment, but Mr Čižinský picked me up a little bit from the chair, through you. Dear Member, by your means, do you know that in the global, all the energy that is called green today is merely subsidized? Do you know which energy is the cheapest? Well, coal! She, if she hadn't been burdened with carbon taxes, she'd still be the cheapest. If we talk about Austria, which uses water energy. So it's about some way we're going and some stability. The issue of the Czech Republic as an inland state does not allow us to do exactly all the things that allow, for example, seaside states, such as the use of wind energy, which is proven in the United States, England, etc. We don't even have enough water resources, because we can use water resources and pumping resources really only from the Vltava cascade and several small power plants such as Silesian Harta and so on. We ask what we need for the stability of this country. We need a stable power grid. You know very well that we have a very robust system, but we still had to build transformers at the border with Germany, where overflows due to excess energy from wind power plants and solar power plants were able to knock down the network. Then we got into this situation that we're talking about some battery storage, and here, through Mr President, I'm gonna agree with Honza Gardener because it's easy, the moment I'm there to store electricity in negative terms, the night that no one's taking it away, and then I'm gonna sell it for expensive money, but who's gonna pay it? Well, the consumer will pay! No one else will pay for it. The companies will pay for it. And how will you stabilize the system? The enthusiasm of Austria, I beg you - it happened before Christmas: twice was the Austrian blackout who saved Temelín. The hated Temelín, who stands with us in southern Bohemia, saved Austria in blackout. So energy mix, right, a reasonable energy mix. I wouldn't resist small modular reactors in my life, but once they release the technology from the nuclear submarines, it'll be fine. They already know it, but it's not really applicable to any industry at the moment. And what are we talking about here today? Yes, I would know another discussion, Temelín or Dukovany, but that's me, South Boy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u27	Mr rapporteur, you, too, have ended the time to make a point of fact. [[Thank you.]] Mr Jan Jakob's point of fact is now being prepared by Mrs Gajdůškovášková. My colleague Žáček is still waiting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been information from the President that these factual remarks are counted against the agreed 20-minute limit. I have a problem with the limit itself, but I respect that it has been approved here, especially when we are discussing such a fundamental issue for the future of our country and for its orientation. However, I have doubts as to whether the procedure is correct, whether factual remarks can be counted in this way into these limits. I believe that this is not possible, but I am still quite a rookie here, but as I have also asked experienced colleagues, they are not clear about this either. That is why I would ask because it is crucial for this discussion, which is why I would ask for a legislative opinion on this matter. And since it affects the course of this discussion so that it is not questionable, I would ask for a break until we have this opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u29	I don't see any reason for a break. Is that a request from the MP for a break? I must say that if you object to the President's procedure, I will have it voted because, of course, there has been such a problem because it is a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies that it is twice ten. This does not apply to those who say the position of the parliamentary club. But otherwise, the restriction would have no meaning if factual remarks had not been taken into account. In that case, I take it as a proposal that the President's procedure be confirmed by the Chamber of Deputies. I understand your obstruction, but as President, perhaps I have the right to ask the Chamber of Deputies whether or not they accept the procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'm performing with priority rights. Mr President, this is the second time in this parliamentary term when, as President, you feel that the House does not agree with you, and you will declare your own opposition to the Chamber of Deputies with the President's procedure. I don't think it can be applied that way. Then each President could, in a way, legitimise his actions. The disagreement must simply be brought up by a Member, and no Member has come up with it. Jakob just came up with the fact that he was not clear about your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, if those factual remarks are somehow counted into that 20-minute limit, and asked you to come and ask the legislative department to interpret this approach, and asked you if it would be possible to wait or take a break until the interpretation from the legislative department comes. Since you took this as an attack on your person, I don't think it's an attack on your person that it was just a request, so I'm asking for a one-hour break to draw up a statement from the legislative department on whether factual remarks are counted against the 20-minute limit that we voted on here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u31	Of course I can let that happen. I asked, and I think that is the legitimate right of each President to know if the President's procedure is correct, because the second option which was here from my colleague Jakob that the Chamber of Deputies will interrupt for the time being. That was the second version of what my colleague asked for, a break. If you've asked for an hour's break for a meeting of the MP's club, I must respect that. I'm declaring a break until 12.04 for the TOP 09 meeting and... Okay, before I finish the sentence, Vice-President Jana Černochová reports with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u32	Mr Vice-President, I am sorry, but you are now proving to us how you bend and regulate the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. If you want to convey your views to this House, to oppose the fact that someone personally criticizes you for holding a meeting, then you have to do so here at this rhetorical site, not there. And you're supposed to call someone to take your shift for the moment. So I'm asking you to abide by the Rules of Procedure, not bend him around like you're doing here, and really, in case you're not sure of anything, so you can consult with the legislation. But don't show us what you've been doing here for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u33	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just as much, although it was presented as a break to TOP 09, I would ask the legislative department to draw up an opinion, whether factual remarks are counted against the 20-minute limit, and to be familiar with this position at the end of this break with the chairman's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u35	I'm declaring a break for the TOP 09 meeting until 11.04, as we've announced. [[correct until 12.04.]] At the same time, I will ask the legislative department to draw up an opinion on the netting of factual remarks up to the limit of twice 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, the item has been suspended in the debate for the break of the TOP 09 Members' Club and for the presentation of the opinion of the legislative department. We have received the opinion of the legislative department and I will now introduce you to it: "Stanoviško of the Legislative Department on whether to restrict speaking time pursuant to § 59 para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has failed to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the European Union. According to Article 59 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The House may decide on a limitation of speaking time which may not be less than ten minutes to the present point. The limitation of speaking time shall not apply to Members responsible for bringing forward the opinion of the Members' Club on the matter. The House may, without debate, decide that a Member may refer to the same matter no more than twice. According to Section 67, the limitation of speaking time does not apply to persons referred to in this provision. According to Article 60 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. A Member may make a statement in writing which responds to the course of A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall be regarded as a factual remark. In that factual point, factual opinions on the issue cannot be applied. According to Article 60 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether it constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. In the opinion of the Legislative Department, § 59 para. 1 and 2 shall apply to the regular speeches of Members in the debate. Paragraph 60 (a) shall apply. 1 represents a completely different case. These provisions cannot be mixed. Limitations on speaking time pursuant to § 59 para. 1 as well as the limitation of the number of performances pursuant to § 59 para. Article 2 (2) shall not apply to procedural proposals or to normal factual observations. If there were to be an accounting for the time of factual remarks for the purposes of limiting speaking time, this would have to be adjusted in the Rules of Procedure. The explicit exclusion of Members' right to speak with factual remarks is only provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the House in exceptional circumstances of Sections 100a and 109m. Conclusion. It follows from the foregoing that factual remarks cannot be counted against the limit for the length of speaking time or the number of speeches laid down by the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to Paragraph 59 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and 2, Act on Rules of Procedure.' So we will continue to follow this opinion of the legislative department. We're in a debate. It is Mr Jan Čižinský's turn to make a point of fact, and Mrs Helena Langšádlová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u37	Thank you for the floor. I would perhaps also like to respond to the situation here with the Rules of Procedure, because this is what happens to Mr Filip in this law. It's surprising, but it's what happens most to him in this law. I drew up the last discussion when, in response to Mr Onderk - Mr Onderka, just to remind you, there are facts that Members do not know - I took a factual point and made a procedural motion for interruption until we were informed. President Vojtěch Filip said: "Mr. Ambassador, I see your procedural proposal. It is an abuse of the factual comment in the speech, but of course I respect that it is a procedural proposal that is voted without debate." Then my colleague Lipavský stood up for me, and I thank him for that, and Mr Filip said: "Since some factual remarks are not merely a reaction to the speech of the speaker, I must respond to that as the President. I don't want the excesses that we witnessed here at other colleagues who were then led out of the O.R. And I think respect for the negotiating line must be maintained constantly." Then there was a firefight of debate, Mr President said that he would be involved in the debate, that he would not get off, and now he is not here either. I will just read the Rules of Procedure which relate exactly to this situation. "The Member may refer to a factual remark which responds to the course of the debate. A procedural proposal relating to the way in which a item of the programme is discussed shall also be regarded as a factual remark.' So I just want to point out that this happens to President Filip on a regular basis, and unfortunately at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u38	Thank you. Mrs Helena Langšádlová, Mr Pavel Plzák will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u39	Thank you for the floor. I would really like to express serious concern about what has happened here, and I will follow up on the words of my colleague Čižinský. Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip has been here for many years and we can hardly suspect him of not knowing the procedures, the Rules of Procedure. For this reason, I see and evaluate his progress really as arbitrary and entirely intentional, because it is strange that he is making mistakes in the management of the meeting and manifests the ignorance of the Rules of Procedure when discussing this point. It's happened repeatedly. It's happened repeatedly here, and I consider it extremely serious. Otherwise, I would like to assure you that the House's organizational institutions, given that they sent us the material at 11.59, really needed an hour to process the opinion that Vice-President Fiala had just read. This does not change the situation where we are actually talking all the time about the uncertainties about the preparation of the project, and the present point is actually directly related to these uncertainties. We are here in a situation where the largest project has been being prepared over the last 30 years with an extremely large economic, energy, but also security significance, and there are five opposition democratic political parties who have clearly expressed their disagreement with Russia's approach to the tender, as well as the vast majority of Czech society. Therefore, Mr Vice Prime Minister, I ask you once again to explain the position of the government and how you have dealt with the positions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u40	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u41	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the legislative department very much for the position I have asked for. He made that very clear. I also consider the procedure we have chosen to be the only right one, because Filip wanted me to raise an objection. If I had done so, he would have put the objection to the vote and I have no doubt that it would not have been voted, so, according to his interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, we would have continued our negotiations and, as it turns out, we would have continued it in violation of the Rules of Procedure, in fact, in an unlawful way, and then the whole of this matter could be called into question. I would like to say strongly to Vice-President Filip, through Mr President, even though he is not here, so as not to abuse his position as President. I find this completely unacceptable, especially at such an important point. It is not possible to bend the laws, it is not possible to bend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Vice-President Filip, through Mr President, do this and bend your statutes when you are running the KSČM ÚV, but not when you are running the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u42	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u43	Thank you. After all, I would still like to respond to Mr Kubíček, who has stepped out, because actually here in my speech a discussion about the way was torn out, and I would like to return it to the essence of this law. The essence of this law, which is presented here, is that non-market support is guaranteed if the project is not paid in the future. That's what I'm talking about here about atomic tax and all that, that's the essence of the law. But it has not been done, and this is a big mistake of the whole process, here has not been made an offer: Firms that you are in the world, we are willing to give you this non-market support for certainty, if it does not work out, offer us a technical solution and we will assess whether it is realistic or not. That didn't happen at all. This means, for example, CEZ could even offer to convert some coal power plants into overdraft, sodium, etc., but there was no such thing, there was no such thing. And that's what I was pointing out. That means there was no contest for a solution. In fact, there is a debate about non-market support for Čez, and I fear that there is also non-market support for Rosatom, and that is the problem. In fact, we're going to vote on a future atomic tax that will be paid by all taxpayers, by all electricity users, if it gets expensive. We all know it's very likely to get expensive, because if it doesn't, we don't have anything to deal with here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u44	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák, Mr Jan Lipavský - factual remarks - will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u45	For starters, I would like to make such a point, although I don't see Mr. Vice-President Filip here anywhere, but at the end of his presidency he said something about obstructions of fact, and at that moment I wanted to respond to Mr. Plzák, who spoke here sometime about half an hour ago. Although I understand that he used it as a quote from the President of the State Office, I believe it was some misinterpretation because he was talking about small modular reactors and that China was the leader in their development. I can tell you a list of small modular reactors, which he examined and demanded in some marketing survey as well as ČEZ and the government. These are the following: ACP-100 - the only one from the list is from China. Following is the CAREM reactor from Argentina, mPower from the United States from Bechtel, Nuward from France, NuScale - again the American reactor, RITM-200 - it is Russian, then the SMART project - South Korean, SMR-160 - again the United States, UK SMR, the Rolls-Royce 400megawatt - United Kingdom. Small modular reactors are also developing Westinghouse and GE Hitachi with project BWRX 300. For example, the list lacks the Czech Energy Well project, which is in the research phase. However, when I look at the list, I see only one Chinese company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u46	Thank you. Mr Jan Lipavský, Mr Jan Zahradník - factual remarks - will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I'd like to respond to my previous speakers. It's really fascinating when you read in the news that the numbers that appear in the last few days are record, 20,000 infected, closed districts, and we're talking about a nuclear power plant. I would rather expect the vice prime minister of this government to work actively to solve the corona crisis of an unprecedented situation, and this is a matter that we can postpone and we can talk about it in peace when we have the capacity to do so. So what Vojtěch Filip did here was totally scandalous, that was unprecedented. And he does it repeatedly, especially in this law, I have a lot of experience with it, he always gets very excited about me. So I really believe that it is in everyone's interest to find a consensus that we will postpone the negotiation of a low-carbon law, or you, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister, I call on you to come forward here with the information and questions you are confronted with, at least in some way, to try to explain them. Because silence really isn't the answer. Silence is not the answer. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u48	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr Pavel Kováčik will be prepared, then Mr Vlastimil Válek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u49	Mr Vice-President, allow me to respond in my speech to my colleague Čižinský. Indeed, it would be possible to go back a little bit and take the preparation for building a nuclear resource more comprehensively, considering all the possibilities that the development of technology offers. It would certainly be possible if there was no conflict with another, let's say, now a newly formulated public interest, and this is an interest in the departure of our Republic from coal power. That's a purpose that's real. The coal commission, which the government has set up and commissioned to decide, determined the date of 2038. There's a group in the government that thinks about the early term 2033, see what happens. In any case, the conflict of these two interests is very clear here. While we must have a clearly defined plan, a way of financing, a way of operating, a project, a contractor, digging into the ground, concrete, building, assembling, that is what we need to build a nuclear resource, a second intention is sufficient for a government decision. We're going to end with 2038 coal, a signal for coal power operators, who are already pushing the prices of allowances to shut down their capacities gradually, stop operating power plants, stop mining coal. So far, less than 50 percent of our energy is produced from coal, our traditional source. So we have a really complicated case here. If we want to replace the energy that disappears by shutting down coal, we must have a core, renewable resources will not save us in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u50	Thank you. President Pavel Kováčik, then President Vlastimil Válek, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, just a small response to the debate, as I have seen in years of coexistence with the Dukovany nuclear power plant and the years of stay here in the Chamber of Deputies. Why hide it? The whole debate, the factual ones, the discussions about whether or not it's the right way, is just covering up a dispute about whether or not we're even going to continue nuclear power. The geopolitical dispute and other and other disputes are involved in this, and it is covered under the would-be noble interest to do what is best. I think that those who live in the immediate vicinity of nuclear power plants in the Czech Republic or also the Slovak Republic, those who have whole families employed there, do not care whether or not their provider will continue to operate even after it expires. Now, let me just give you one little attempt at bonmot. Keep your mouth wiped about the communists. We have built three nuclear power plants at our time and are still functioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u52	Thank you. Mr Válek, then Mr Třešňák, factual remarks. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u53	I think it's really pointless to push it. The debate is not entirely happy, she will continue. I only took the facts on purpose to be brief and brief. If I wanted to push it, I'd say other communists built Chernobyl, and how it turned out. And I don't think so, because the nuclear power plant is safe, the nuclear power plant is a serious project today. Of course, there can be a different view of nuclear energy, there can be a different view of whether to build a nuclear power plant - and there I think there is a big dispute - with the support of some countries or not, that is the merit of the problem, at least from my point of view. I could abuse or use the knowledge I have from the time I sat in the IAEA, where nuclear power plants are evaluated - thank you through Mr. President colleague Třešňák - and I think that this was a very rational summary. Maybe that's what's missing from the analysis, where it's very interesting... for example, those English power plants that have practically the same type of reactor and differ only from the consortium that built them, and surprisingly it had a big impact on the speed of completion and the approval of individual steps. That's also very interesting. I would very much like this analysis if we had it at our disposal. IAEA has it and its data and materials are very useful. However, the original reason I wanted to sign up: I think we should cultivate the environment. Just yes, it is not entirely happy when the President somehow makes a mistake, it happens to each of us, I just think, especially if it is in the case of a lady performing, it is all the more unfortunate, I think that an honest man and an experienced politician will admit that he has made a mistake, he will apologize, he will learn from it, I wouldn't worry about it and I wouldn't complicate it. I believe that any of the Members who are here belong to the category of honest men and every one of them who is here when he makes a mistake will apologize and admit that he made that mistake. It's the basis of decent behavior. I wouldn't mention it at all, ladies, because the logic of my upbringing doesn't make mistakes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u54	Thank you. Mr Petr Třešňák, then Mr Jan Jakob. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u55	Just a brief response to Mr Kováčik. I do not know if he is aware, through Mr President, that there is a unique situation, that, although there is a heated debate, there is agreement across the political spectrum that the development of nuclear energy is to take place. However, what is not a consensus is above the form of the law that we are discussing, and it is such a strange paradox that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia - yes, you mentioned that we should not wipe it out - here defends the law, where thanks to the fee for the breaker money for the power plant, it collects money from the granny with the power plants, from the cabiners with the circulars, and it does not bother them at all how the parameters of the law are set.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u56	Thank you. Mr Jan Jakob, Mrs Helena Langšádlová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u57	Thank you. Dear colleague Kováčik, through Mr President, I do not wipe my mouth about the Communists and I do not intend to rub anything against them, I assure you. Yes, you've built nuclear power plants in the past, yes. But you also led political processes, dozens that ended in constitutional murders, and you destroyed thousands of lives. I say no, thank you, I don't want to say that again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u58	Thank you. Mrs Helena Langšádlová, factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u59	Thank you for the floor. A colleague of mine, Kováčik, said here that we should be honest about what's going on here. Well, I'm gonna repeat what I'm trying to do again. My point is for the government to fulfill its own obligations. The Government, and the Vice Prime Minister knows, adopted two resolutions concerning safety requirements for the construction of a nuclear power plant, the D56 of 2000 and the V147 of 2019. The government subsequently approved this contract - ladies and gentlemen, who do not have it, I will be happy to send it to you. It is called the First Implementation Agreement on Cooperation in the Construction of a New Nuclear Source in Dukovany, Czech Republic. In this contract, CEZ and EDU II undertake to comply with the security requirements that have been passed on under the Government's resolution and related documents, subsequently that CEZ and EDU II undertake to demonstrate to the State that they have fully incorporated all the security requirements they have received. And once again, here's a document that was processed by experts from the Ministry of Interior, Foreign Affairs, SACUIB, BIS, Intelligence and Military Intelligence. This material says that out of 17 of these safety requirements, 5. That's what I'm after, and I just demand, repeatedly demand, and demand that the government prove that the security requirements she herself has declared have been met. We're gonna ask for a government commission, and we're gonna demand further action until the government guarantees us that she's filled it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u60	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u61	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, through you, a brief response to Mr Kováčik. You're actually trying to move what we're talking about here. You're trying to bring into this conflict how to get that energy, and you're actually trying to turn people's attention away from the essence, and the bottom line is that anyone who has insurance and takes electricity away, or every taxpayer is going to be under this law, and the law has no other purpose than to make it happen, is to pay the non-market price of electricity that will be produced under this law. That means when President Zeman comes to the House, he never forgets to talk about solar barons, and this law is about the same thing. It's the same principle where people pay for a project to produce non-market electricity and people pay for it from their wallets. That means the President should stand here and warn against this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u62	Thank you. And now we come to those who are enrolled in the general debate. Mr Pavel Žáček is next, Mr Jan zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u63	Thank you for the floor. First of all, let me, of course, refer to the views of our opposition colleagues, who believe that today, in the midst of the peak epidemic, we should address more current problems, and I say this with the knowledge of the strategic importance of the development of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic. Politics or, rather, politics has once again triumphed over common sense. Clearly, the government needs to restore the rebuttal support of the coalition KSČM and the weakened Andrej Babiš is forced to meet the demands of Miloš Zeman and his surroundings. That's what this is about. Mr President, I am now speaking with the opinion of the ODS. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you once again, and we will return to the ground by saying that our Security Committee, as the competent House body, has taken an initiative to propose a law on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy, more precisely wanted to address it. I refer you to the resolution of the Security Committee delivered to all Members on 23 November 2020 and you will find it in the system as House Press 966/3. In this resolution, the Committee, on my proposal as Vice-President of the Committee, and following the addition by Mr Ondráček, interrupted the discussion of this proposal before presenting the opening words of the petitioner, pending the delivery of the selected relevant materials requested from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic. Our request to supplement the underlying materials and other information needed for proper consideration of this point was addressed to the Office of the Government by President Koten and sounded as follows. We demanded: First, the final report of the Standing Committee on Nuclear Energy Working Group on the State's security interests in the field of nuclear energy of January 2019. Second, the government material approved on 27 April 2020 dedicated to the security aspects of the selection of the supplier of the new nuclear source block, describing the security interests of the Czech Republic, which are a key condition for the use of the exemption from the selection procedure under Section 29 letters. (a) the Public Procurement Act. Thirdly, the resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic No. 478 of 27 April 2020 and in the resolution of V - reserved 77/2020 entitled Proposal for a resolution of the Government of the Czech Republic on the current state of security and further steps in the preparation of new nuclear resources, which, by the way, has been declassified, but I will still talk about this, including the annexes describing the state of the project. And lastly, if other relevant government materials were available documenting the procedure of the Government of the Czech Republic in assessing the security risks associated with the project for the construction of a new nuclear source, so would these documents. Last but not least, we wanted to invite Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, Government Commissioner for Nuclear Energy Jaroslav Míl at the next committee meeting on this point, and we considered representatives of the security community as well. What was the result of our request? On 15 December 2020 we received through the Secretariat of the Security Committee a reply from the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport here present Karel Havlíček to the request of the Security Committee, see our resolution number 196 of the 44th meeting of the Committee, on the submission of the materials required from the Office of the Government to the Government Bill on measures for the transition of the Czech Republic to low-carbon energy, House Press 966. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister et cetera et cetera, has not failed again. At the beginning of his reply of 30 November, he thanked President Koten - I quote - "for his interest in the process of preparing the construction and implementation of new nuclear resources in the Czech Republic," the end of the quote, which, however, sounds ironically in the context of another paragraph, in which he argued, inter alia, that - I quote - "the materials required are not related to the subject and purpose of the present law." End of quote. With reference to the law on the protection of classified information and on security competence and with reference to § 41 para. 2 of Act No. 95/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, refused to provide us with the required information. However, he admitted, enchanting with the alleged transparency of the government in this tender for the completion of further blocks of the Dukovany nuclear power plant and as broad a consensus as possible, that information and documents will kindly provide and make available to Members, but exclusively in the Ministry of Industry and Trade building on working days between 8 and 16 o'clock. In my opinion alone, this approach cannot be regarded as anything but a clear attempt to circumvent the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions. The minister was based on a simple premise: If I do not deliver the required documents to the committee, I will block the discussion of this point, and if someone arrives at the MIT, it will only be individuals, which will not allow the stated point - see the committee's resolution - to discuss this competent authority. Let us leave aside that the Minister tried to train us from the Rules of Procedure, referring, among other things, to the already repealed regulation. However, let me remind him in return that, according to the further provisions in force in the Rules of Procedure, a Member is entitled to request from the members of the Government, the management authorities and the authorities of the local government the information and explanations necessary for the performance of his duties, including classified information under the Secret Information and Security Eligibility Act, see Section 58 of the Act. I would also like to remind myself and to sigh: who other than the members of the Security Committee, the Defence Committee, and then the Special Permanent Supervisory Commissions dealing with, for example, intelligence control should have access to classified information to the extent necessary? It is precisely these bodies of the Chamber of Deputies that are staffed and materially equipped to deal with sensitive and classified information. This may be a surprise for you, Minister, but the Chamber of Deputies has so-called regime rooms in logic and competence and has the opportunity to work with this information and documents. Even the entire Chamber of Deputies may, under its Rules of Procedure, decide that a meeting or part thereof will be held as non-public, in particular if classified questions relating to defence or security of the State or other serious classified facts are included on the agenda. Therefore, I do not understand the unwillingness of the Minister to provide these few materials to committee members. On his part, I consider this not only to be a sign of distrust, but also to try to make it harder for us Members, legitimately seeking the important information needed for the proper performance of our mandate, and to prevent us from expressing qualified decisions on government proposals. How are we to understand your answer, Mr Vice-President, rather than to despise Parliament, Members, the Committee on Security? Are the members of the committee really meant to go individually to the Ministry? Although I did not agree with your approach, which I presented in front of your subordinates at the Ministry, and I still consider it a purposeful obstruction, I visited the MPO with my colleague Robert Králíček. For your information, by the date of our visit, we were the only two members of our committee. He also came to the Ministry of Commons, a colleague of Lipavský from the Foreign Committee, to whom the classified documents were prohibited. Only on the spot did we find that there are only three to four classified documents, of which, moreover, the government resolution in question was declassified, already in April 2020, before this point was discussed by the Government of the Czech Republic. In addition, there was a proposal from the Minister of the Interior on the uncovering of a dedicated report from the working group drawn up from the security forces of the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the summer of 2018, respectively from January 2019. [[12.40 hours]] Here, Minister, I would be particularly interested in the reasons why you did not disclose this material when the main security guarantor suggested this procedure. In addition, I would ask you, in the sense of Law No. 412/2005 Coll. has enabled the completion of this reclassification process and has forwarded this interesting and important document to us, members of the Security Committee, after uncovering it. The next procedure should, in my opinion, be such that the Minister should apologise to the members of the committee, ideally in turn, provide the several required materials, and we should now interrupt the plenary until the law is discussed in the Security Committee and only then complete the third reading. This is not the first time this request has been made here in the House. I am quite convinced that we should not substitute here the work of the committees that we have created for these specialized areas and topics, and we recognise their members as delegates of all political parties and authorities in this area. But what remains for us, when Minister Havlíček, as I have documented here, has succeeded in successfully blocking the committee's negotiations and bypassing the competent body of the House before discussing it with all of you here in plenary. In this context, allow me to reiterate that the security community, including the Ministry of the Interior, has made a number of relevant comments on this law and how to deal with their opinions. During the discussion here at the plenary held on 20 November 2020, I introduced you, colleagues, to the opinion of a working group composed of the Ministry of Interior, the BIS, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the National Office for Cyber and Information Security. Last time, it was repeated to a certain extent by colleague Langšádlová. We've already talked about him today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u64	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. The House limited speaking time. [[Member Žáček to the President's back to the microphone.]] You're performing with the ODS club's opinion. Yes, let's put it this way. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u65	We have strict leadership.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u66	I have to measure everyone the same, and I'm doing it. But if you speak with the opinion of the Citizen's Democratic Party Club, there are no restrictions on you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u67	I'm sorry. I'm sorry, that was an inappropriate joke. So back. Indeed, it was not a view of one body of national security, but of a cross-cutting material on which everyone agreed. We should take him very seriously. Colleagues, colleagues, we need to perceive energy security holistically and with all the negative consequences that unthinkable decisions today can have on the interests and security of the Czech Republic in the future. As the Czech Republic's Security Strategy from 2015 also mentions, it is necessary to build energy infrastructure with foresight and with sufficient time in advance. Here, let me return to a declassified government document, that is one of the annexes to the V77/2020 Rules of Procedure, entitled Information on the preparation of new nuclear units in Dukovany and other steps, and mention several key passages from the block ensuring the basic security interests of the Czech Republic. Let me quote: "Energy infrastructure is part of the so-called critical infrastructure representing a key system of elements whose disruption or malfunction would have a serious impact on the security of the state, the security of the basic living needs of the population or the economy of the state. The functioning of the energy infrastructure is threatened by both political pressures and threats of criminal nature. An example of this threat is politically motivated manipulation of supplies of strategic raw materials, entry of foreign capital with potentially risky origins and targets into critical infrastructure of the Czech Republic, sabotage, cyber attacks or economic crime. An equally significant threat is the interruption of supplies of strategic raw materials or energy. The priority is to create assumptions for uninterrupted, diversified supplies of strategic raw materials and, in the domestic environment, assumptions for stable supply of electricity and for the creation of state strategic reserves.' And I quote another key passage approved by the Government by Resolution 478 of 27 April 2020: "The construction of new nuclear resources represents technically complex implementation with a wide range of obstacles, with the reliability and credibility of the supplier, including the sub-contracting chain, from the point of view of nuclear safety as well as geopolitical interests and risks crucial. In this context, there is also, for example, a possible risk of cyber attacks on the nuclear power plant's control system or certain components of a nuclear power plant, against which a nuclear power plant could potentially be deliberately susceptible, for example as a result of the use of faulty chips, backdoor malware and so on. The materialisation of those risks during the construction or operation of a nuclear power plant could ultimately lead, for example, in a crisis geopolitical situation to dependence on a particular supplier or its subcontractors or country of origin. For these reasons, the selection of the supplier, including its subcontractors, is primarily a security strategic matter for the Czech Republic and not a purely economic matter. The risks in question may occur over time with different suppliers or their subcontractors and at different levels. The State therefore needs to ensure its security interests at any time at the time of the preparation and implementation of the project for the construction of new nuclear resources." End of quote. In other words, not only the petitioner of this document, that is, the MPO, but also the entire government is aware of possible problems at the latest since the discussion of this material in the event of a poor choice, i.e. in the case of the choice of a Chinese or Russian entity. Of course, with the full text of this declassified document, all its members were made aware of the valid resolution of our committee. I seriously doubt that it is in the interests of the Czech Republic to leave such an important strategic contract for our energy security to companies that come from and are linked to undemocratic regimes. The National Action Plan for the Development of Nuclear Energy in the Czech Republic of 2015 also mentions, among other things, how important it is to ensure long-term security of fuel supply, stocks, contracts, production capacities. Let us not be naive that such guarantees would be provided by a state-owned company from the Russian Federation, especially with regard to geopolitical connections, including NATO labelling, which we are a proud part of, as an enemy and a threat to Russia. This is particularly the Russian Federation and its bodies, which have proven to be carrying out a number of operations in our country that undermine not only our national security but also the security of our partners and allies. The bizarre oversize of the Embassy of the Russian Federation in the Czech Republic is a chapter for itself. I'll talk about it later. Of course, there are a number of incidents in open and publicly available sources that cannot be ignored even in this case. I will be the first to quote from the report on the state of cyber security of the Czech Republic in 2019 and the role of bears in Czech networks. I quote: "In 2019, the SACCIB, together with its partners, recorded cyber espionage against the strategic institution of the state administration almost certainly from the state actor. Based on the findings of the SAOKIB, Sofacy was very likely behind the attack, which the expert community, including the SAOKIB partners, connects with the Russian Federation military intelligence, also GRU." Another quote: "NÚKIB collaborated on solving an incident in which confidentiality of data in networks of strategic institutions of state administration was compromised, in the initial attack was a spear-phishing e-mail. The subsequent analysis of the indicators of compromise by the SAOKIB showed that the attacker was almost certainly a state actor. A probability of between 90 and 100 percent. And very likely, the probability of 75 to 85 percent, APT5, a group known as Sofacy, APT28 or Fancy Bear. The expert community, including the NÚKIB partners, connects Sofacy with the military intelligence of the Russian Federation, already mentioned by the GRU." The SACCIB not only pointed out the Russian Federation but also China, which also showed interest in the completion of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant. I quote: "In 2019 they were one of the most active players in cyberspace groups associated with backdoor Winnti. Winnti's tracks were found in industrial espionage cases, cyber-espionage attacks on state institutions or non-governmental non-profit organizations and media. Backdoor Winnti has been associated with the People's Republic of China since the beginning of its existence." And another quote: "In 2019 there was a massive attack by one of the Winnti groups on important German companies, including Bayer, Siemens, BASF and Henkel. Although the SACCIB did not attribute any attack to the Winnti groups in the Czech Republic in 2019, given the nature of their goals abroad, this threat cannot be excluded, the probability of 25 to 50 percent, even in the Czech Republic. Winnti is one of the players who exploit the weakness of the supply chain and are associated by the professional community with the attack on the CCleaner service, which was purchased by the Czech security company Avast in 2017 during the ongoing attack.' [[12.50 hours]] Likewise, the Security Information Service repeatedly warns in its public parts of the annual reports about the active action of Russian and Chinese intelligence services, which we must not take lightly in this context, and I therefore consider it necessary to mention their warnings. I quote from the annual report of the BIS for 2019: "In 2019 the BIS focused to an increased degree on risky activities relating to several strategic projects whose importance for the security of the Czech Republic was greater than the framework for the protection of important economic interests. These included, in particular, projects in the field of energy and information and communication technologies. To a similar extent as in previous years, the BIS described the risks in the field of interference with the activities of regulatory and supervisory authorities of the State which were directed against the independent performance of their functions. The BIS also recorded a number of other cases of illegitimate lobbying, clientelism and corruption, which had a character comparable to the previous period. In 2019 the state and its controlled companies launched or continued to implement several economically significant projects, which also had a strong relationship with the security interests of the Czech Republic. Their preparation, implementation and completion were directly linked, in particular, to some strategic security interests, such as ensuring energy security, cyber security, and strengthening the competitiveness of the economy. Indirectly, however, in view of their economic scale and the extent to which they influenced strategic security interests, they also had an impact on ensuring life's security interests, such as the political independence and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. The most significant risk that was common to all monitored cases may have been the participation of problematic entities with the ability and incentive to abuse their position in the project to achieve their own particular interests or to achieve the objectives of a third party, such as foreign power, contrary to the interests of the Czech Republic. These risks could be met, depending on the nature of the project, mainly through misuse of access to a large volume of sensitive personal, economic, security or through the creation of supply dependence from a risk supplier and subsequent conditional completion of projects by economic, political or security requirements. Threats may also arise in these cases by continuing dependence on suppliers even after completion of projects with all the typical consequences of vendor lock-in. In the sense of the risks described, entities originating in countries where the administration has the possibility to promote its foreign policy objectives, irrespective of the economic interests of its companies, including private ones, may be considered problematic. The issue described is also closely linked to the topic of risky foreign investment and mechanisms for searching for related security threats. It is the origin of an investor in a country with authoritarian features that, like the projects mentioned above, is one of the important factors affecting the risk assessment of a particular investment. More generally, professional supervision can also be applied to untrustworthy Czech entities seeking trade relations with the state. The BIS has recorded cases where companies with a risk profile - short history, lack of references, criminal history of people in the background, etc. - built their business investment plans mainly on a false or exaggerated presentation of the alleged support of the state or its representatives. The representatives of these companies were able to use everyone, albeit entirely marginal, a meeting to obtain the basis for further manipulative and distorted improvement of their reputation. As a result, such conduct threatened the good reputation of the participants and the Czech Republic as well. In some sectors, particularly in energy, health or telecommunications, the BIS has pursued the intensive efforts of major market participants to influence the legislative process and the staffing or functioning of regulatory authorities in favour of illegitimate methods. Typically, illegal activities did not occur in these cases, but only ways of promoting interests in many cases flagrantly exceeded the boundaries of normal lobbying. The most commonly used procedures included misrepresenting the origin of the documents in order to create the appearance of their objectivity, raising unjustified concerns about the negative consequences of the operating person or trying to speak into the staffing of key offices. In some areas, the cartel agreements between suppliers in the procurement of contracts by state institutions or by state-controlled companies have been a long-term threat to the economic interests of the State. The contracting authority has often had limited opportunities to eliminate the negative consequences of awareness of these agreements. In this context, the difficulty in proving cartels or serious shortcomings in the removal of key suppliers appeared to be particularly problematic, since cartels were often related to key state assets, such as strategic infrastructure. The BIS also informed about the negative consequences of the old burdens in the form of disadvantageous commercial relations between the State and private partners. In line with the trend in previous periods, these problems concerned mainly some ICT projects and claims related to export State aid. The BIS also described on specific cases a number of negative phenomena that it had observed in previous years, in particular failures caused by negligence, corruption or clientelism. As a result, the State, or its controlled companies, was faced with leaks of sensitive internal information, purchase of unnecessary or overpriced services and goods, high costs of suspended economic activity and disadvantageous sales or leases of property. For example, the BIS informed about several cases of long-term relationships between private suppliers and the contracting authority, which was based primarily on personal friendly links of decisive persons. Their result was, for example, the submission of supplier errors, the non-application of sanctions or the preferential provision of non-public information. The usual thing was that the motivation of the state representatives was not apparent corruption, but an attempt to simplify the working situation and not to expose yourself, for example, to the risk of difficulties with a new, unproven supplier. If, by the representatives of the State, there was acceptance of corruption, the material advantages received were often relatively insignificant and completely incomparable with the volume of commercial transactions, but they provided the beneficiaries with a certain sense of exclusivity." Another quote from this report, which must also be included in our records, is as follows: "The Security Information Service was dedicated to all intelligence services operating in our territory against the interests of the Czech Republic within the legal remit in 2019. In accordance with the priorities set, the level of threat to the interests of the Czech Republic and the BIS's own capacities and capabilities, the priority objectives of the reporting development of Russian and Chinese state power were to threaten the security and other key interests of the state in 2019. Despite the more frequent application of unconventional concepts in promoting Russian interests, intelligence services continue to play an important role in Russian operations and activities. The supervision and control of Russian intelligence officers can be traced or imported even in cases where non-state entities themselves engage in hostile activities. The intensity of Chinese intelligence and development activities does not lag behind the Russians. The key difference, however, is that Russia seeks to destabilize and disintegrate its opponents, while China's aim is to build a sinocentric global community where other nations recognize the legitimacy of Chinese interests and admit to China the respect that China thinks belongs to it. The Czech Republic was a subject of interest to actors with ties to Russian and Chinese state power in cyberspace as well. In this context, the BIS also recorded further security incidents associated with activities of state or state-supported cyber-espionage groups such as Turla, Zevros, APT 28 or APT 15. In 2019 members and co-workers of all Russian intelligence services were present in the territory of the Czech Republic: SVR civil intelligence, GRU military intelligence, FSB internal security services and Federal Protection Services. The activities of Russian intelligence officers working under diplomatic cover within the Russian diplomatic mission in the Czech Republic naturally focused on promoting Russian foreign policy interests, ensuring a positive image of Russia in the Czech Republic, promoting the views and attitudes of the Kremlin. The numbers of members of the Russian intelligence services with diplomatic cover have remained relatively stable in the Czech Republic for several years" - and also very high, I must add, I will return to this at the end. "The effective limitation of their activities was still extremely difficult due to long-term disproportion in the size of diplomatic missions of the Czech Republic and Russia. In previous years, the BIS has long registered the interest of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Officers of the Russian Civil Intelligence SVR in controlling the situation in the Russian-language community in the Czech Republic, especially through the support of the Kremlin part of the diaspora. In 2019, Russia's state power dampened its activities in this field, and according to available evidence, it did not manage a medialized aggressive campaign by the Russian part of the community against the Russian minority representative in the Council of the Government for National Minorities. The transition from state controlled or controlled activities to active pressure activities fits into patterns of Russian non-conventional practices, the representative of the Russian state power will show what he wants, which can be strengthened by simultaneous manipulative actions in the information space, and proxy actors outside the Russian state power structures will subsequently carry out activities on their own initiative in accordance with the expected will or wishes of the Russian state power. A fundamental psychological element in these situations is the collective belief of proxy players that something needs to be done. The script, when state power does not carry out its own activities, remains in the background and in various ways - PR, manual statements, propaganda and so on - freely inspires independent actors to the possible action, considers the BIS to be a risk, especially if the number of such initiative actors, both from the Russian-language community and from Czech citizens, would increase in the future." [[13.00 hours]] At this point is also to quote a passage that concerns Chinese services, although the seemingly Chinese problem is solved, but we may be able to believe it when it all comes down to it. [[maybe.]] I quote: "Chinese intelligence services - in the territory of the Czech Republic were active in 2019 mainly members of civil intelligence of the Ministry of State Security and military intelligence. The strategic organization of the Department of International Relations of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China in the Czech environment, on the one hand, established official contacts, on the other hand, using methods of intelligence work to fulfil its objectives. Chinese intelligence services used traditional cover - diplomats, journalists, academics and modern methods of intelligence work, such as through social networks, interested in various fields and used the openness of the Czech environment to offer Chinese investment. Their interest focused on a wide range of fields, whether it concerned: technological topics, military, security, infrastructure projects, health, economy, environment, or international and domestic policy. Chinese actors, intelligence, diplomats, members of party organizations and others in the Czech Republic sought ways to influence public opinion, spread Chinese propaganda, build a positive image of the People's Republic of China through open and hidden influence of media content. The spread of strange articles on the People's Republic of China was intended not only to build Chinese activities in favor of the environment and to open doors for Chinese expansion, but also to act on Chinese readers, because texts were printed in Chinese periodicals, presented as an opinion of Czech established media in turn as an opinion of the whole Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u68	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I have to interrupt you at this point. It's 13 o'clock, and we have time for lunch break, so I'm interrupting your performance. You will continue to do so when this item is again on the agenda. I'm interrupting this point. In order not to create any confusion here, because the chair is still taking turns and we have a limited speaking time here, we have agreed with some of the members of the parliamentary clubs that we will ask the Member who is acting with priority for the parliamentary club, who is speaking with the opinion of the parliamentary club, so that he will always state this at the beginning of his speech, so that it is clear to everyone. Thank you. And let me just remind you that the meeting of the Organizing Committee will begin at 1:05 p.m. Here we will meet again at 14.30 and continue firmly with the point 375.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u69	Have a good afternoon. I will begin the afternoon agenda of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the President of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka reports with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u70	Thank you, good afternoon. I am very sorry, but I confess when I see a look at the government benches, the ministerial benches, there is only Minister Dostálová here, and I must say that when I see the developments today during the day of the meeting, I would very much like someone from the competent ministers, either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health, or the Home Secretary, to arrive in the afternoon, and to tell us, among the points, how the government approaches the purchase of vaccines. Because how are we supposed to explain to people that the situation is taking its utmost to cope with when today's refusal to include the point proposed by our colleague Válek, information about how the vaccination in the Czech Republic is going to take place, now that we are reading from public funds in the media 20 minutes old information that the government has had the opportunity to buy a large volume of vaccines, there has been an offer of vaccines from AstraZeneca from the United Arab Emirates, and we learn that the Czech Republic, the Czech Government has not used the offer, that there is just a relatively large number of vaccines, about two million, the government has not used them in the next two months. So I'm wondering whether someone from the government is coming to explain it, coming to tell people, citizens of this country in a situation where regional vaccination centers are being prepared here, waiting for vaccinations, growing the overloaded capacity of the ips, growing the mortality of people here, and we're hearing around us - help from Bavaria, Saxony, from the United Arab Emirates, offering us specific help, beds, vaccines, and it remains unanswered. The Prime Minister goes to Serbia, Hungary, and now he's supposedly making another trip instead of taking specific offers on the table. So I would like the Prime Minister or Minister Blatný or Minister of the Interior of Hamáček to come in this afternoon and say how the government took these offers, why it didn't use them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-001-326.u71	So I will now read the apologies: Minister Jana Maláčová apologizes for not attending today on 3 March for working reasons and Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček apologizes today on 3 March until 16 hours for working reasons. So I'll open the first point and it's about
