ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u1	91. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the development of the capital market /house print 993/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance, Mrs Alena Schillerová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a draft law amending certain laws in connection with the development of the capital market. The draft law is based on the concept of capital market development, approved by the government in March 2019 and identified the weaknesses of the Czech capital market, which need to be supported by legislative measures. This concept is based, among other things, on the World Bank's report on the capital market in the Czech Republic, which we have developed to obtain a comprehensive and independent view of a reputable institution. The most important measure introduced by the bill is the so-called long-term investment account, which is a property account that is intended for the general public to represent an alternative and healthy competition to existing old-age savings products. I must point out that this is not a product related to pension reform. This financial market product is intended to have the same tax advantages that today have life insurance and products of the so-called third pension pillar, which, however, do not provide sufficient appreciation for participants in a number of cases, so that they really do not allow them to make more significant savings on old age. That is why we want to offer citizens an alternative in the form of an investment-type product that allows them to invest in assets that have the potential for higher appreciation, such as shares, bonds or mutual funds. It is already possible to invest in these types of financial instruments, which does not change anything, but not through an account that would benefit from tax. Thus, the long-term investment account is a sort of umbrella account of existing products that brings this possibility. The conditions for granting tax advantages are the duration of the product for at least five years and the possibility of collecting funds at the earliest age of 60. With this product, savings can be made through conservative but also bolder investments, which is intended for those who are at the beginning of the savings cycle. Typically, they will be young families and young people who are rather looking for investments with a potential higher yield, albeit at the cost of certain investment risks. Bolder investments, for example in shares, currently state-supported old-age savings products do not allow, although in the long run, savers can receive an interesting assessment. This is a product for citizens of all income categories. So it is not a product for the rich, as I have also heard. This would also have to be intended for the rich for supplementary pension savings or life insurance products, which are not, or I cannot agree with that view. In preparing the proposal for this account, we have been inspired abroad in countries with developed markets where a similar product is widely used and helps create greater interest among investors in managing their savings on old age. Another important measure we have in this amendment is the fight against so-called fraudulent corporate bonds, which is very topical. Small investors who do not have more experience in investing in bonds are unable to assess risks and trust promised returns that are often unrealistic. The draft law addresses this problem by extending the emission conditions for issuer data so that the investor has the opportunity to assess the risks not only of the whole issue but also of the issuer. The issuer will be newly obliged to publish on its website, for example, information on its business orientation, duration of its activities, or to publish two final financial statements. In relation to this obligation, the supervision of the Czech National Bank will be introduced, including the possibility to impose sanctions. The draft law also introduces a new type of participating fund in supplementary pension savings, the so-called alternative participating fund, which is to be an alternative to existing dynamic funds. Furthermore, mandatory use of XML format for execution purposes is proposed, which is intended to reduce the costs of execution in the financial market. In addition to the proposals directly resulting from this concept of capital market development, the draft law also contains other proposals resulting from consultations and from the requirements of practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u3	I also thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Jan Řehounek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, let me briefly present my intelligence report here, where I would like to add to the things that the Minister has already said here. As has been said here, the bill does not concern only one single law. In fact, within the framework of the amendment, a total of 10 laws are being amended in this press, so I would allow myself to briefly list some of them here and say exactly what this House press is dealing with in these specific laws. The first law that is amended is Law No. 229/1992 Coll., on Commodity Exchanges, where it is proposed that, in view of equal access, the permanent arbitration court of the organizer of the regulated market, i.e. the exchange arbitration court, be factually unlimited and be able to decide generally property disputes. It is still proposed that this extended substantive scope should also be held by a permanent stock exchange arbitration court set up by the Commodity Exchange. It is the International Court of Arbitration of the Czech Moravian Commodity Exchange. The newly unlimited factual and local jurisdiction of the permanent stock exchange arbitration tribunal for the decision of property disputes between natural and legal persons is proposed. As regards Law No. 586/1992 Coll., on Income Tax, as amended, a new wording of Section 4 paragraph is proposed here. Article 4 (1) (a) (l). Each point of this provision applies to one product and clearly specifies which transactions are exempt from tax on the product in question. Furthermore, it is proposed to combine existing limits for savings products to old age and extend the possibility of their application to a newly introduced long-term investment account, as the Minister has already mentioned. At the same time, there is a response to the emergence of new types of sub-funds which are granted to a separate corporation tax payer, as is the case with the existing sub-funds of a variable capital company, the so-called SICAV Funds. As regards Law No 3 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities, the so-called execution order, is proposed to extend the scope of the Ministry of Justice's order to declare the XML executioner format to all financial institutions which are obliged to provide assistance to the executioner free of charge. The fourth law, which is amended here, is Law No. 229/2002 Coll., on the financial arbiter, where it is proposed to extend the scope of the financial arbitrary to disputes between the consumer and the administrator of the long-term investment account. This is also actually in connection with what the Minister said here, with the introduction of a long-term investment account. The fifth law is Law No. 190/2004 Coll., on Bonds, where the situation is currently being resolved, that the emission conditions contain only information about the issue of bonds and do not contain information about the issuer. That's what the Secretary of State mentioned. For the buyer, information about the issuer is essential in order for the investor to be able to assess the risk of bonds and, above all, the ability of the issuer to meet its obligations. The whole change is meant to lead to greater investor awareness and therefore to greater protection. [[17.30 hours]] The Sixth Amendment Act is Act No. 256/2004 on capital market business, which is actually regulated mainly by the essential requirements of the long-term investment account. It is regulated what property can be registered in this account. In Law No 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, the so-called insolvency law, addresses the issue of subordinated bonds issued under foreign law. The eighth amended law is Law No. 427/2011 Coll., on supplementary pension savings, where it is proposed to introduce a new type of participating fund, a so-called alternative participating fund, for which there will be no such strict regulation of the fee and investment strategy. And it is proposed that the current participation in the transformed and the participating fund be possible to allow participants to make their transfer to participating funds easier without having to interrupt their participation in the transformed fund. These are the new types of fund where there is no real need for the pension company to guarantee the participants the so-called positive zero. The ninth law amended in this House of the Press is Law No. 240/2013 Sb., on investment companies and investment funds. Following the Minister: by changing the concept of the capital market, it is proposed that the limited liability companies be allowed to create sub-funds for investment certificates and closed equity companies, which are an investment fund, so that they can create sub-funds, which they cannot do at present. And the last law that's being amended is Law No. 634/2004, on administrative fees, where certain fees are subject. But that's really such a detail that any of you will want to look into it yourself. The effectiveness of this law is proposed on 1 January 2022. That means I'm glad we got this press by first reading so that we could run it by that date through the House, even possibly the Senate, to sign the President. And so that I no longer have to report to my final speech, I would just ask for the support of this House press to send it to second reading and to have it discussed in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u5	Thank you and I am opening up a general debate in which I have an enlisted Member, and this is Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister for Section 29 para. 4 of this law. In particular, I was encouraged that there was a problematic wording which discriminates against foreign entities from EU Member States, so I wanted to ask this question, or I would just ask the Minister, if she does not have an overview of it, it is: "An investment intermediary may provide the main investment services referred to in Section 4 (1) (a). Article 4 (1) (a) (a) or (e) to transmit instructions only to the trader of the ZPKT.'; [[Ambassador Ferjenčík is speaking with Minister Schiller.]] The shortcut is ZPKT, I'm sorry, now I don't know which one of those ten it is. So the question is whether it is not the formulation that is proposed, whether it is not discriminatory to the entities they operate within the EU. Or, of course, if the Minister is not ready to respond here, I wanted to draw your attention to this in order to get some comments, and to the committee where we will definitely discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u7	Thank you. No one else is entered in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words? Madam Secretary, the rapporteur? [[Not interested.]] It's not. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. [[Gong.]] First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has ordered the draft to be discussed by the Budget Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I can't see, so I'm gonna go on, wait a minute, and we're gonna take the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 212, 97 Members signed in for 70, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. I thank you and end the first reading of this press. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u8	Thank you, Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to request, on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party Club, a break for a club meeting of 84 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-21-ps2017-098-06-007-091.u9	So it's until 7:00. I'm interrupting this meeting and we'll continue tomorrow at 9:00 a.m.
