ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u1	9. Government bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (Act on Medicines), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 864/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, the draft bill will be presented by Minister of Health Petr Arenberger. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[He's not present in the hall.]] And the Minister... We'll wait a while. So the Minister is present in the Chamber. Please, Minister, state the bill submitted. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u2	Good afternoon, honourable Members, I apologize. Allow me to present here a proposal for an amendment to the addictive substance law. As I have prescribed, the first reading and discussion of the draft law in the Committee on Health has previously included the basic objectives of the proposal for establishing the prescription and dispensing of medicinal products containing addictive substances to an electronic recipe with the designation of a highly addictive substance and increasing the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use for patients in the Czech Republic. [[17.50 hours]] The current form of the Act on addictive substances does not sufficiently reflect changes related to the transition to a mandatory electronic recipe or a newly established pharmaceutical record. The draft law therefore introduces an electronic recipe with the designation of a highly addictive substance, thereby unifying the way in which all medicines are prescribed. The main reason for this change is the use of the benefits of eRecipe, in particular by reducing the possibility of contraindications with other medicinal products and by over-prescription of these medicinal products by different physicians. The proposed legislation also sets firm limits as part of the prescription and dispensing of medicinal products containing addictive substances between the Act on addictive substances and the Act on Medicines. For this reason, the proposed amendment to the Act on Medicines is part of the proposal. Furthermore, in order to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use and eliminate current shortcomings, the draft law introduces a new system of licences for the cultivation of cannabis plants for therapeutic use. The State Institute for Drug Control will no longer buy cannabis for therapeutic use from growers, thereby saving funds and making cannabis distribution more effective for therapeutic use from growers to patients. The purpose of the proposed adjustment is to allow private entities to grow cannabis plants for therapeutic use, to produce a active substance from them and to distribute it under the same conditions as any other addictive substance. This means that distributors will be able to export such produced cannabis for therapeutic use abroad and to look for new outlets, which will result in an increase in production. Due to the increase in production in the Czech Republic, competition is expected to increase with a positive impact on the final price of medicinal products containing cannabis for therapeutic use for Czech patients. The draft law was discussed by the Committee on Health, which recommended that the Chamber of Deputies agree with the proposed bill. The proposal was also discussed with the Agricultural Committee, which recommended that the Chamber of Deputies approve this proposal, as amended by the Agricultural Committee approved by the amendments. However, we cannot agree with the proposed amendments. First of all, it should be noted that the amendments have not been discussed with the departments concerned, which we consider crucial in the field of narcotic drugs. The whole issue of cannabis cultivation, processing, use and further handling as an addictive substance, the abuse of which is widespread in society, has basic implications not only in the fields of agriculture or health care, but also in the areas of drug crime, justice, customs administration and criminal administration policy, food safety, cosmetics, and therefore, as we believe, should discuss all the proposals leading in this direction professionally and widely. Mr President, honourable Members, the aim of the proposal is to take another necessary step in the electronisation of health care and to increase the availability of cannabis for therapeutic use for Czech patients, and I would therefore like to ask you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the agricultural committee. The Committees' resolution was delivered as House prints 864/1 to 3. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, should take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. What the amendment of the law is about, the Minister said in detail here. It is therefore two points, an electronic prescription for opioids, and then allow medicinal cannabis to reach a wider range and prices available to our patients as well. I just want to sum up as rapporteur that the Government has tabled this proposal to the House 12. 5. 2020. The first reading took place on 26 January 2021, the Guarantee Committee became the Health Committee and it was also referred to the Agricultural Committee, as was said by the Vice-President. The Health Committee discussed this amendment on 17 February 2021 and issued its resolution No 348. I would read this resolution. It is the resolution of the Committee on Health from the 81st meeting, where, after the opening word of the Minister of Health, Professor Jan Blatný and the rapporteur, profesor MUDr. Rostislav Vyzula and after the debate "The Committee on Health recommends the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Fees, as amended, House Press 864; II. empowers the rapporteur of the Committee of Members, profesor MUDr. Rostislav Vyzula, in cooperation with the plaintiff and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, may propose further necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur, Mr MUDr. Vyzula to get the opinion of the committee to know the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies." This amendment has not yet been discussed within the Committee on Health in terms of amendments. They probably won't come until now, at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u5	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Pražák, to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u6	Good evening. I represent my colleague Karel Tureček. At the 42nd meeting of February 17, the Agricultural Committee discussed this press. He dealt with the amendments tabled by Mr Radek Holomčík, where it is more or less a specification of technical cannabis and a reporting obligation. "Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening words of Deputy Minister for Legislation and Law Lucie Krausová, report by Mr Karel Tureček and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a government bill amending Act No. 167/1998 Coll., on addictive substances and on the amendment of certain other laws, as amended, Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and the Act on Administrative Fees, as amended, approve the amendments adopted.'; The amendments are recorded in the system of the agricultural committee. "II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the proposer and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate at the moment. We have less than two minutes to discuss this point. If there is such a general agreement and I do not see any protest, I would interrupt until 6:00 p.m. when we are discussing a fixed point. Is there a protest against this? I don't see any. I'm declaring a break by 6:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-014-009.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we have 18.00 hours. We have a fixed point here.
