ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 896/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. We received his resolution as House Press 896/7. Information on the amendment has been distributed to you in your mail. Welcome to the senator. Hello. I therefore ask that Mr Vít Kaňkovský speak for the appellant first of all on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u2	Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u3	I'll cut you off. Really, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, please remain calm in the hall. Take your seats, or go to the foyer, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u4	Good afternoon. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr Senator, I would like to remind you briefly of the parameters of the parliamentary amendment to the Act on the provision of benefits to disabled persons. Just for a very short time. The original amendment introduced by us dealt with the agenda for the exchange of ZTP licences, their simplification so that it would make it as little of a burden as possible for the disabled themselves. We then added a slightly larger amendment to this proposal at second reading, together with my dear colleague Alena Gajdůškovášková, which changes some other agendas within the scope of the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons. I consider the two most important ones, and that is that support for autistic families or families who care about people with autistic spectrum disorders has come under the law, in the light of the fact that the most difficult states in this group of people will be able to make a new contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle. [[15.00 hours]] I consider the support of families who care for a loved one with severe dementia and a severe mobility disorder to be a similarly important change. These were the two main proposals, in addition to some of the other changes we were preparing, and I will say this here, with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, when the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs worked intensively on this. This is how the proposal was then adopted, the comprehensive amendment that we presented with my colleague Gajdůšková, was adopted at third reading and this is how the proposal went to the Senate. Unfortunately, we already knew, in preparation for third reading, that the wording that is aimed at promoting autistic people, with a disturbance in the autistic spectrum, is not ideally legalized, in view of the fact that the wording that has been proposed and approved there discriminates against a certain part of the most severe disability. This means that we are in a situation where we would newly support about 500 families who are caring for autistic states with the most severe disability, but unfortunately a certain part of people who also have a very severe disability, but do not fit into the formulation as we have approved it here, so these families could not reach the motor vehicle contribution. I know it's always about the funds, that it's not an easy decision, but I believe that if we really want to help families who have a very difficult destiny, because taking care of a difficult autist is really a destiny that many of us can't even imagine. That is why, together with the senators, whether this is a colleague Lumír Kantor, or a colleague Šárka Jelínková, Miluše Horská, Anička Hubáčková, we discussed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on the modification of the formulation that originally sounded - autistic disorders with severe functional disabilities, with repeated serious and objectively proven manifestations of auto-aggression and heteroaggression persisting despite the treatment in place. We have indeed consulted a number of experts in the field of psychiatry and others, but we have also consulted the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we have shown a great deal of effort to find a compromise solution so that the most difficult conditions are really supported, and that there is no disrepansion, when one person who does not have autoaggression or heteroaggression, but has other serious behavioral disorders, such as difficult to coordinate mobility or high noise within uncontrolled acoustic manifestations, a tendency to self-defense, to touch others and other socially inappropriate phenomena that exclude the family of his nearby vehicle in mass transport, so that the spectrum of supported persons is indeed wider and non-discriminatory. I must say that the Senate has agreed with this proposal, which was then finally introduced by the fellow senators mentioned, and this amendment in the Senate has been passed by a large majority. And I would like to ask you, my dear colleagues, to identify with this version of the Senate, which removes discrimination towards families caring for severe conditions, autistic spectrum disturbances, because if we really want to help these families and if we want to fulfil the government's commitment, even to the previous government and then to this government, which has dealt with families with the autistic spectrum repeatedly and has also adopted a very serious resolution, so that we can actually implement this resolution from 2019. I know that Minister Maláčová has very strongly opposed this, and you have all received a letter from her informing you that it will be significant financial costs beyond the originally approved version, but here I want to say that on the one hand, I understand the Minister's need to keep an eye on budget costs, on the other hand, it surprises me a little bit, because she likes to give away. And here I'm asking why families with autistic spectrum disorder don't want to admit non-discriminatory compensation. And what I am very sorry about is the fact that the Minister used several argument fouls in the letter. I have to mention some of them here. In that letter, the Minister mentions that 500 people or 500 supported families would grow up to 5,000. Here, if we look at the statistics - the statistics on people with autistic spectrum disorder are still quite large in our country, but if we look at the official statistics from the perspective of the Czech Social Security Administration and look at the care allowance for those disabled in third and fourth degrees, which can be said to be in the face of the most difficult group of people, those people are certainly not 5,000, as the Minister suggests, and most importantly, some of these families are already entitled, based on the existing form of the law on the purchase of motor vehicles, because they fall within the category of mental disability. This means that the tenfold increase in the budgetary costs mentioned by the Minister is considerably outgunned, and I am very sorry that the Minister has committed such an argumentation foul against these families. I think that is a shame, because if the government is committed - and I believe that this is a non-political topic, that support for families with autistic spectrum disorder is contained in basically all the electoral programs - I think it would be good if the Minister really changed that view and that we agree here to support the roughly 1,800 families, because it is a real number in the first stage when there will be a certain impact if this change had passed. And then it's going to be a few dozen, a hundred a year, tops. This means that we need about 1,800 families to pass in the first version, and it will apply to only a few dozen or hundreds of families each year, when it will be new patients with severe autistic spectrum disorder. Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude by politely asking you to actually consider the support of the Senate version, which extends the spectrum, there is a formulation, which is also better professionally from my point of view, and I believe that from the point of view of the criteria how to judge correctly, which person falls into it, that we have experience of assessing the care allowance. My colleague Lumír Kantor will certainly mention this, and I believe that the Medical Assessment Service and the Czech Social Security Administration are also able to distinguish correctly which families really need to contribute to the purchase of a motor vehicle and which do not. Thank you for your attention and I believe you can accept my argument and support the Senate version of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I would like to thank you and ask Senator Lumír Kantor to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say a few words about our Senate bill returned under Senate press 76, Act No. 329/2011, on the provision of benefits to persons with health insurance, stated on the comprehensive overview provided by Mr Kaňkovský: out of 75 senators on 28 April... out of 75 senators and senators, our amendment, 68 persons, 7 abstained, was no one against the amendment. Basically, it's based on a new definition where we're releasing such a discriminatory determination for us about aggression, or autoaggression or heteroaggression. From my point of view, the point is that sick people who also have other manifestations than autoaggression or heteroaggression, and yet in urban public transport or on a train, their presence can be very unpleasant for all three parties - both for the sick and the caregivers and people who accompany them and are subjected to daily pressure to care for such persons and passengers. It's these conditions that are difficult to correct anxiety, mental retardation behavior disorders, which often accompany or can accompany spectrum disturbances or uncontrollable acoustic expressions, other people's touch and so on. [[15.10 hours]] So I personally used such an expression in the defence of the amendment: if we have an autoaggression or heteroaggression law, these are simply indications that can lead to a discriminatoryly tuning of a certain disorder of the autonomous spectrum, or PAS phobia. The original proposal also prevents those who take care of such a sick person from providing the necessary support. As far as disproportionate financial burdens are concerned, there may simply not be our definition, because there may not be an autoaggression or heteroaggression, but it may be our definition, because a lower legal standard can allow - and I think it would be far, far more appropriate - to allow the use of lower, applied internationally accepted standards, be it DSM-5, this is now an internationally accepted manual that distinguishes three levels of care, DAS-S, which evaluates the degree of disability in very detail in four areas of life, and WHODAS 2.0, which proposes a new diagnostic manual. Thus, judging doctors would have the possibility, based on a lower legal standard, of creating a system that would suit them. Then we think that a very unpleasant condition is "in place of treatment" because it is a step back from our point of view, because it can be interpreted narrowly as psychiatric medication, and the path of psychiatry currently does not really - just this way - go. So that's why we're proposing to cancel the parole. To the finance: in the 2018 review database, this is the only publicly known database, a map of third and fourth-degree autism. There are 3 356 people, so there's no way it's the 5,000, it's just an overexposed number, or it's based on some data available to the Ministry of Labour and Socialist Affairs. Some of them can be expected to have a dose - others may not show car-intensive signs and already have or do not have a driver's license, so that the number will really decrease to the number reported by my colleague Kaňkovský. So it is still a complete conclusion that it cannot be reduced in relative setting of criteria for selection of applicants, but it should be a fair setting of the benefits provided so that it comes out to those who are entitled to it, to all equally. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u7	Thank you, Senator. I ask if she wants to comment on the Senate's amendment to the Committee on Guarantees, which was the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Dražilová? He's not interested in commenting. I am therefore opening the debate and Vice-President Tomio Okamura has entered the debate with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad for the SPD that the Chamber of Deputies is finally dedicated to disabled fellow citizens. Support for disabled fellow citizens is one of the SPD's important agenda priorities and we will always support any positive proposals. First of all, the biggest problem for disabled citizens is extremely low income. Much of our disabled fellow citizens live essentially below the poverty line, living directly in poverty. Of course, they are not the only elderly who live in poverty without their own guilt. The solution for all pensioners is a minimum decent pension of an amount that would ensure a decent life. The SPD filed a proposal for a minimum pension, and it would be good if we could at least discuss it in the House and discuss it publicly. European pirát enforce minimum guaranteed income for all citizens, including all slackers and inadaptables, who have never done anything for others or for the state, and do much or do nothing unless we mean drugging or criminal activity. The fact is that unadaptable and drug addicts, of course, require effortless income. In any case, the pirát are not the only ones who enforce this model, but others, such as the ČSSD, have considered it. If the pirát, STAN or Social Democrats here hypocritically declare that they are just discussing unconditional income so far, let's ask whether there is no more recent discussion of the SPD bill on minimum dignified income at the minimum wage limit, which is about 15,000 a month for those who have worked and paid social security for their entire lives, or for people who simply cannot work because of really severe disability, even if they wanted to, because they really cannot live for pensions up to 15,000. And this bill from the SPD pen, which, by the way, applies in many Western developed countries, has been here in the House for two years without the interest of other political parties. Of course, since the basic dignified minimum amount on the poverty line, that would be merit. And, as I pointed out, for the minimum decent pension, there is a need for compliance with the conditions that I was talking about, so there is no way that this would involve any inadaptable ones. Another problem of our social system is truly an incredible bureaucracy, which makes it difficult for those who really need it to help and, on the contrary, those who parasite on it can bypass bureaucracy with the help of various nonprofits. And so, among other things, we have healthy disabled people from the inadaptable, which is pointed out by a number of citizens, and by desperate real disabled people who can't get any support. However, a simple legal standard can no longer handle the solution to this problem. There is a need to audit all the regulations that address the granting of disability pensions, analyse them, find problematic parts and, of course, find the necessary solutions. Not everything is, of course, just a problem of legislation. I've heard stories from people that you can buy a disability pension here and there. Even in one city, a wealthy minority family bought a disability pension for their son's birthday. Ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the problems mentioned above, I find it really inadequate that we are only dealing with the exchange of cards here, while the real problems that a lot of people are really crushing and keeping them in poverty and need, there is simply no time in the House. It is truly tragic and shameful. There's no way I'm downplaying the bill we're discussing about the ID cards here, and I'm saying that the SPD will support the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u9	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová is next enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no one could accuse me of making a diagnosis of the PAS or not doing so during the last term of office. However, Mr Kaňkovský, by your means, mentioned here a letter from the Minister who sent us all, but you mentioned only the financial part he points out, and I think it is not that important, because this is not really a measure of money. But actually in this letter of hers, which I have read several times, and this time I have to agree with some things, it is actually that objectively proven behavior-intensive behavior has really every patient with an autistic spectrum disorder, so I really think about all these patients. And it also says that it is medically vague and very difficult to grasp. That's what I agree with. [[15.20 hours]] And then there's still, I'm saying, I'm not talking about the financials that you just pierced from that letter, but there's a paragraph that I would read and I have to agree with. It can reasonably be assumed that this definition, although adopted with a certain good intention, will undermine the fragile stability and balance between the various types of severe disability which constitute a right to a contribution to the special aid for the purchase of a motor vehicle, will lead to discrimination against other severe disability and also to an increase in the applicable proper and exceptional remedies. And I think it's important that on my part it's a little unconceptionary now to approve the contribution just for this diagnosis and not include the other types of severe disability. So I think it would take a system solution and not approve of it in individual diagnoses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u11	Thank you. A real comment by Mrs Gajdůšková. I then register the application for the debate for the appellant, Mr Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u12	Mr President, Madam Members, Mr Senator, I would like to follow up on what my previous speaker, Madam President of the Social Committee, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, said. I would like to stress that it was the Chamber of Deputies that worked on the possibility of obtaining a motor vehicle contribution for people with autistic spectrum disorder. As has been formulated in the parliamentary version, it is accurate, Mrs Pastuchová has also spoken about this. This provision opened up this possibility for people with autistic spectrum disorder. Practice will definitely show if we need to open it further, if we have a chance to open it for people with another diagnosis. I therefore have a heavy heart, but I still want to repeat that it was not in the original proposal at all, the provision to help people with autistic spectrum disorder, as is precisely defined in the parliamentary version, so it opens up. Until then, they just don't have the right, or at this point, those people don't yet have the right, but I think we should stick to that originally parliamentary proposal with all the arguments we've heard here, and to people with other problems and other diagnoses, however much I really appreciate everyone who helps these people. And as an educator, I know how hard it is. I say, with a heavy heart, but I think at this point, it's wise to stand by the practice, given how it's going to be confessed, so that it's fair, we should insist on the House version. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u13	Thank you. I have two more factual points. First of all, Mr Plzák, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u14	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear government. A brief remark from his practice, generally to the contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle. I know from my practice that they are patients, and I know a few of them who come to the hospital to check in or to the ambulance with an ambulance, and I subsequently found out that they received a contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle. So I wonder how it's treated, if one rules out the other or not. Thank you for doing this to the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u15	Thank you for the brief factual remark. Now, Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u16	Thank you. Mr President, my dear government, my colleagues, I would perhaps like to help all those who are speaking here with a heavy heart to support the House version. Unfortunately, I must say that I do not consider the argument made by Mrs Pastuchová to be entirely fair to families who are caring for people with autistic spectrum disorders. We hear it very often here. The moment a proposal comes, we want to help someone, so when a group rejects the proposal, it says it's unsystemic. It's unsystemic, creating other injustices and so on. Now, as part of this amendment, we are really discussing helping families who care about people with this disorder, and I want to remind you that what Senator Kantor here presented is not the opening of the floodgates and gates to everyone. Indeed, there must be a very severe disability, not that we provide this contribution to all families in this way. I am convinced that we do not have to worry about a heavy heart, but we can support a version of the Senate that corrects and, on the contrary, does not create injustice, but within families that care for people with an autistic spectrum disorder, it is very fair, because it also gives entitlement where it is evidently justified. I would ask you very much to take this into account. We're not really talking about some dramatic ax for the state budget here, but whether we're going to do it for families, people who care about people with this disability, if we're going to help them in full, or if we're going to do half a step instead of taking the whole step. So, Senator Gajdůškovášková, whom I very much appreciate, Mrs former Senator GajdůGajdůšková, today: let us with a light heart support what the senators have fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u17	Your time. Thank you, and now there's room for the plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u18	Have a good afternoon again. Mr President, Members of the Government, colleagues, I would like to respond briefly to some of the comments that have been made here. I am convinced that this is the kind of misunderstood way in which people with severe autistic spectrum disorder are actually judged, which leads to the Ministry's prediction of up to 5,000 people here, which is definitely not such a high number and cannot be. And that's the argument foul that surprised me with the secretary, and I don't think it should appear in this important debate. As for the fact that the wording that we have adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies, as the only precise one, let us really repeat it once more. There is talk that there will be classified autistic disorders with severe functional disabilities, with repeated severe and objectively proven signs of autoaggression or heteroaggression, persistent despite established treatment. What does that really mean? They will be people who have severe autism and who are self-aggressive or heteroaggressive. But I've already said here in my first entry that to prevent a person with severe autism from traveling by mass, there are other behavioral disorders that make it impossible for those families to use mass transportation. And I'm gonna do it again. It is poorly coordinated mobility, high noisy within uncontrollable autistic expressions, a tendency to self-injure, to touch others, and other socially inappropriate phenomena. I think that each of us knows a family who has such a severely disabled loved one, and try to put yourself in the role of these families, who experience a lot of mouths in society and other reasons. They don't really go into public transport with their loved ones because they're ashamed because they know there's someone in public transport who says to them, "I beg you, your loved one or somehow compare your child to yourself, because this is not the way he behaves here. And it's very stigmatizing for those families. For them, there are also a lot of other mouths that they are experiencing, and it is the Senate proposal that seeks to level out the discriminatory position that we have adopted by the House's version, that is to say, it concerns really severe forms of autism and, at the same time, the severe behavioral disorder that makes it impossible to use mass transport. [[15.30 hours]] That means, I don't think it's a very fair discussion here, and if anyone is saying it, and MPSV representatives say it's vague in some way, my colleague Senator Lumír Kantor is witnessing that when we were discussing it on Senate committees, it was also said from the mouth of MPSV representatives that they, in assessing the degree of disability or the contribution to care, can find the scale of the difficult disability, that they have the mechanism and the methodology. Basically, it would only be enough to overturn this methodology in the form of a sub-legal regulation so that only authorised persons and only legitimate families would actually receive the contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle. This means that I am actually opposed to the fact that the wording that is now proposed is vague in some way. I'm a doctor myself, and in some ways I've been in the assessment of some medical conditions as an expert, and I know that the criteria - and he mentioned them here, the medical criteria, my colleague Kantor - can be set. This cannot be put into law, this must be part of a legal standard, but the medical opinion service is able to handle it and we will certainly not be giving it to someone who does not deserve it. In fact, only families who have a very difficult destiny and who really cannot benefit from mass transport would receive this contribution. And once again, I mention the number. There's no way, with all the calculations, all the statistics we have on this area can be 5,000 people. The first increase after this law came into force, the sober estimate is somewhere around 1,500, maybe 1,800 people, the first impact. Instead of 200 million, it will mean somewhere around 700 million - budget costs, the primary costs in the first year of efficiency. But next, there will be only dozens of people per year. So I would like to ask you once again very politely, consider these arguments. It's not really an ax for the state budget and some kind of spending money on someone who doesn't need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u19	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. That was the last application for a debate, but the Senator is still reporting in the debate. Senator? Of course, if you're interested, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u20	I would just like to say again that, as the Minister's letter has been discussed, it is precisely those parts that were supposedly not mentioned here by Mr Kaňkovský, so we are basically talking about them for the third time at this point. These are the internationally recognized standards that can put the sick exactly into the categories that are needed. So this gross and discriminatory term of autoaggressive and heteroaggressive is divided into others, we all certainly have some unfortunate experience with autoaggressive or heteroaggressive people, and we know that even heteroaggressive ones are different degrees. At this point, there is no single criterion, a technical criterion, which is to say the Minister's letter that it is precisely defined, because even the auto-aggression and hetero-aggression are not to a certain extent - so it is vaguely defined. And about the numbers of people. We really do not know how many there are, because according to the latest data publicly available from 2018, it is at the most difficult level of 3rd and 4th degree of disability 3 356. Some of them are already on mental retardation and so on, some of them aren't gonna show signs that are hard for the care, and some of them already have the car, and they don't have, like, a driver's license, and so on. So it can't be expected that even this high number of autistics and people with autistic spectrum disorder would be able to do so - demands were made. And even the scale of the disease can be regulated in some way more easily precisely in internationally recognized standards, which very gently distinguish, for example, the DAS-S very detailed in four areas of life defines the behavior of each person. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u21	Thank you. Now, my colleague Čižinský, still in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, let me intercede with a few sentences. I think our company really owes a lot to families with autistic children. There's a story about it, I don't know if it's true or not, but there's a story about them refusing to give the kid benefits at one office, and in the end, it was enough that daddy wouldn't babysit for a while, the kid would wreck the office, and then it was recognized that he really needed help. I think if we had a hard case here, we'd consider voting maybe differently than we're prepared. I mean, I really want to put in a good word for those families. It's not a big deal, and I think that with one vote, we can actually pay those families back a little bit over the years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-01-ps2017-104-04-003-006.u23	Thank you. I'm still asking if anyone's applying for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4. First, I will go on to make note of those who did not noisy, but the debates have been moved to the front so that they can take part in the vote, and I will make a motion for a resolution for which an absolute majority of the Members present are needed because it is a proposal... I see you're interested in checking out, so I checked you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will decide on the bill as amended by the Senate in the vote number 203. That's what I started, and I'm asking, who's in favour of the Senate? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 203, 163 in favour of 77, against no one. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we shall vote again, pursuant to Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The required number is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House press 896/6.' I started voting number 204. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 204 out of 164 registered 163 for, no one against. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the rapporteur, thank you, Mr Senator, and end with point 6. The next item is the seventh item in our deliberations:
