ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended / House print 532/5/ - returned by the Senate Before I welcome the senators, I will vote on the presence of Mr. Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, in voting number 29, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the Governor? It is about the negotiation of the law, not the points in which the law has the right to be present. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 29 out of 174 in favour of 129, against no one. The motion was accepted. I welcome Senator Vladislav Vilímec and the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok. I note that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 532/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová to speak first for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution. Madam Vice Prime Minister, I'm going to ask the House for peace. If you have any other discussions, please in the foyer! Once the situation is such that it will ensure a dignified discussion of this bill returned to the Senate, I will give the Vice Prime Minister the floor, but not yet. [[He's waiting for a while.]] Just a little while longer before some colleagues and colleagues settle down. Don't make me name it. Please. The floor is with the Secretary of Finance, Vice-President of the Government, Alena Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce from the Senate a return to the government bill amending the law on the Czech National Bank. First of all, I would like to emphasise the need for the draft law to be adopted, because it is a long-term legislative effort in this area. As I mentioned in the previous discussion, this amendment is one of the most detailed proposals discussed, both in professional circles with the participation of a number of legislators and in the media space. The legislative process itself began in the previous parliamentary term. At that time, however, the House of Deputies failed to complete the discussion, but its need certainly did not disappear. It certainly deserves to be approved. But above all, the first weeks of coronation crisis last spring have clearly shown that the instruments contained in this amendment are really needed. It is evident that the entities in the financial market have calmed down, and the positive effects have also been seen in the Czech government bond market, from which we benefit all, not just our government, but above all our citizens. I therefore consider it absolutely essential that the bill be approved and passed on to the President. This is a rather difficult and highly professional topic. We are talking about central bank instruments, monetary or macroprudential policies, and these are ultimately very close to everyday life. The central bank primarily cares about price level stability and prices are something we all face today and daily. Likewise, financial stability can be an abstract and difficult subject for many of our fellow citizens. But the proposal presented is embodied in the rules on mortgage lending and mortgages are a topic close to a large part of our citizens. Let me also remind you that housing loans dominate all bank loans completely, so we are talking about a large part of the banking business. So before you is a proposal that has a link to the key aspects of our country's economy's further functioning. It is not a rash or perhaps rash reaction, but a well-thought-out set of measures that we really must have in the magazine in case they are needed sometime in the future. I think it is necessary to mention this at the outset. Now let me mention the various parts of the law and respond to the corresponding points of the amendment adopted by the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u3	I understand you, Madam Vice Prime Minister, and I will ask the Members to remain calm, including your party colleagues. [[Minister Schiller with a smile: Thank you, Mr Vice-President.]] I see that colleagues will move their discussions into the foyer. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The first is the extension of the circle of monetary policy instruments and the circle of entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions. But instead of expanding, I should be talking about standardisation. We are proposing an adjustment that is common among a number of central banks in advanced market economies and complies with the rules laid down in the Statute of the European Central Bank. The aim is to allow the Czech National Bank the necessary freedom to choose the counterparties and instruments with which it trades in the performance of its statutory tasks. Regardless of whether the wording of the Senate or the wording of the Chamber of Deputies will be approved, this is a very important part of the amendment. As I mentioned at the outset, the proposed extension has already enabled the Czech National Bank to adopt a crisis amendment from last spring, i.e. from the early stages of the corona crisis, but only for a limited period until the end of this year. The effects of this crisis novel came very quickly. There has been a calming of markets that have found that our central bank can intervene on time and adequately if needed. Nor was it necessary to really carry out specific transactions. The fact that they can take place already brings a desired stabilization effect. And why is that so important? Because in markets without unnecessary nervousness and uncertainty, it is easier to obtain funding, not only for citizens and companies, but also for the state. I am very pleased that, thanks to the calming of the markets, public finances have managed to be financed smoothly and at a low price. I'll take one example for all of them. We are able to place six-year government bonds on the market at an average interest rate of 1.14% and we can use the money saved this year to combat pandemics. Moreover, future governments will benefit from this amendment after 2021. Since last year's crisis amendment was a quick emergency solution, limited efficiency was agreed only until the end of 2021, as I have already mentioned. However, until the end of the mandate of this government, the Czech National Bank will have all the necessary tools at its disposal. However, I consider it necessary to adopt a permanent solution that will ensure that these central bank instruments are also available in the coming years, i.e. future governments. They will also be financed in the market and be able to benefit from its stability, as well as the entire economy. And they will also have insurance in case we ever see another crisis and potential uncertainty in the markets in the future. That is the right and responsible course of action. It's like home insurance, and we don't want to wait for the water to rise, but we'll cover ourselves ahead. We don't expect floods, but we want to be sure that if they happen to come, there will be a solution. We are doing this for the future, and so is this bill. It is important for the future of this country, it is precisely the right and long-term solution. And let me reiterate that we are proposing rules that are the standard framework for the functioning of central banks in advanced markets. The first point of the Senate amendment concerns precisely this area. Specifically, the Senate proposes to supplement the Czech National Bank's trade provisions with an explicit statement that the ban on monetary financing is not affected. However, this addition is redundant because the ban on monetary financing always applies to any activity of the Czech National Bank, which is confirmed by the fact that it is based directly on Article 123 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, i.e. an act of higher legal force than the law on the Czech National Bank. Moreover, the addition of the Senate's proposed statement to the provision in question would be counterproductive, as it could lead to an interpretational uncertainty as to why it is mentioned only in one place of the law, and not in other places that speak of other instruments of the Czech National Bank. Another part of the bill, which was affected by the Senate amendment, is the authorisation of the Czech National Bank to establish or participate in the legal person to support the performance of its tasks. I must reiterate here that the aim of the Government's wording of this amendment was not to actually change, but to reflect the real legal situation that already allows the Czech National Bank to acquire participation to a legal person for the performance of its tasks, but it is necessary to import the interpretation. Therefore, the explicit legislation in the law was brought forward so that its wording was clearer and therefore more understandable. And that should also be the goal of the legislator. In the discussions, the question of the suitability and potential risks of setting up a legal entity by the Czech National Bank was repeatedly raised. Again, I must reiterate that these concerns are odd. The draft law contains a clear restriction on participation in another legal person by being possible only and exclusively to support the performance of the tasks of the Czech National Bank. Here the general principle is that the Czech National Bank remains fully responsible for not exceeding the powers conferred on it through the participation of the legal person. [[16.20 hours]] This declaration is also contained in the explanatory memorandum, where it is stressed that the responsibility of the Czech National Bank for the proper fulfilment of its legal objectives and tasks remains unaffected by the adjustment. If, hypothetically, because of the execution of an investment activity or through the use of another entity, there were undesirable and therefore unauthorized activities, the central bank would be a violation of the law, whether or not it was accompanied by explicit authorisation under the proposed law. I believe that, thanks to the Government's proposed amendment to the text in the law, the Czech National Bank's conduct in this area will be more transparent. For this reason, I do not agree with the second paragraph of the Senate amendment, which revokes this authorisation. The third part of the proposal is to establish a new authorisation for the Czech National Bank to set the upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. The proposal responds to long-term appeals by the Czech National Bank in order to have the power to legally regulate credit indicators for mortgage loans. This is an instrument of so-called macro-prudential policy, which will enable the central bank to fulfil an important objective of financial stability care. At the same time, this instrument must also be seen as a way to ensure a level playing field on the domestic market. In the future, it cannot be excluded that mortgage loans will be provided by non-bank providers or foreign entities in the context of their cross-border activities. From this point of view, the legal obligation to regulate mortgages is an essential condition for ensuring equal market conditions. I want the central bank to have effective and effectively enforceable instruments in relation to both domestic and foreign banks and non-bank mortgage providers. Last but not least, I would also like to point out that, compared to the original version of the last parliamentary term, a relief was added to the proposal for young applicants for loans under 36 years of age, for which the limits will be more moderate. In addition, the Chamber of Deputies adopted an amendment which I, too, supported, which makes it possible for spouses or registered partners to be able to activate relief so that only one of them is under 36 years of age. As a mother and grandmother, I understand how important it is to provide housing for young families. Young mortgage applicants are a specific group that often has low savings and relatively lower incomes at the beginning of economic activity and can therefore logically be more complex to meet binding credit indicators. We take this into account in this proposal. To put it simply, we want mortgages and housing for young families to be as affordable as possible. If the situation gets so bad in the future that the Czech National Bank will have to tighten the screws, then let the young have at least a little looser conditions. With the proposed concept of competence in the area of credit indicators, in addition to the youth relief, there is one further relief, or exemption, this time already flat, or if you want to be bulky. It is then linked to the third point of the Senate amendment, which proposes to increase this exception from 5 to 7,5 %. In other words, the Senate proposes to increase the volume of loans for which certain credit indicators may not be respected at all. However, the proposed higher proportion would lead to a reduction in the effectiveness of the proposed regulation and would create an incentive for the Czech National Bank to compensate for increased risks by more stringent setting of parameters. I would remind you that, in the last parliamentary term, an amendment was approved by the Committee on Budgets, according to which the exemption was to be increased from 3 to 5 per cent. We adopted a favourable position on this proposal together with the Czech National Bank, because it was an increase which still maintained the functionality of the proposed regulation and was therefore included in the current form of the bill. At the same time, however, we made it clear that the 5 per cent exemption is already borderline and cannot be further increased. Otherwise, we're talking nominally about about 20 billion, I'm looking at the governor, 20 billion, the 5%. The last point of the amendment approved by the Senate is the change of effectiveness to a fixed date, starting on 1 January 2022, which in itself does not constitute a major problem, given that it builds on the effectiveness of the temporarily valid amendment, which extended the Czech National Bank's business. However, the bill also contains other changes that have been waiting for approval in view of the length of this legislative process for several years, more than seven years, and I do not see any reason for further delaying the entry into force. In conclusion, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me reiterate that this proposal is about the future of this country and certain insurance for future crises. We must be prepared, so I ask the Chamber of Deputies to approve the bill as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Minister of Finance and Deputy Prime Minister Alena Schillerová. I will now ask Senator Vladislav Vilímec to take the floor. After that, the rapporteur will prepare himself. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u6	Madam Vice-President of the Government, Mr President, Mr Governor, honourable Members, the Senate, by its resolution of the 10th meeting on 28 April 2021, returned the draft amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, i.e. House press 532, Senate press 77, Chamber of Deputies with Amendments, and at the same time authorised me to justify the amendments adopted by the Senate. First of all, I would like to say that the Senate has taken into account, when discussing the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, that the relevant House press 532, i.e. the proposal that we are discussing here, has already been submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 25 June 2019, which means that a month from now will be equal to two years. There's been a lot going on over the last two years. In particular, a covido epidemic broke out and, in the meantime, in response to this covido epidemic, a certain amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank and a partial reversion of the provisions of the original House press allowing the Czech National Bank to carry out its legal tasks in the financial market for investment instruments and other securities until 31 December 2021. This so-called temporary authorisation was the subject of the 192 amendment last year, which came into effect on 24 April 2020. The Senate was aware that the bill in the form of the House of Deputies extends significantly the long-term powers of the Czech National Bank, whether in the area of monetary policy, as well as in the area of macro-prudential policy. The amendment makes it possible to carry out transactions with other financial market instruments and with all its institutional participants. That wasn't possible before. The Czech National Bank, and the Minister has spoken about it, is gaining an instrument that allows, like some central banks, including the European Central Bank, to carry out, where appropriate, so-called quantitative easing. It is an instrument that allows the central bank to go beyond traditional monetary policy, implemented through interest rate settings. The Minister spoke of the fact that this is a bill that has been discussed in detail and in the long term. She was right. He was already discussed in the last parliamentary term as House Press 1009, he was discussed in this parliamentary term, but I add to that: a pity that such a major amendment did not achieve any greater political consensus in the two free periods, as was the result of the vote in the case of this very important law in the Chamber of Deputies. [[16.30 hours]] The Senate discussed the bill very closely and decided to return this bill with four amendments. Most of them were spoken of by the Secretary of Finance. However, I would like to stress that these are not proposals which would fundamentally undermine the intention of presenting this bill. If I were to comment on them in a simpler way, I might choose the term of a certain legislative policy leading to precautionary measures in the implementation of the extension of powers to the future that the Czech National Bank receives by this draft law. In particular, the Senate considers that it is certainly appropriate from a legislative point of view in view of the applicable Law 192 that this new standard should take effect on 1 January 2022, in view of the already mentioned amendment to Act 192, which envisages or provides the so-called temporary authorisation of the Czech National Bank to trade on the financial market until 31. 12. 2021. It's logical when something ends 31. 12. 2021, a new standard, even extending the Czech National Bank's ability to trade in investment instruments including receivables, including foreign exchange values or precious metals, in order for such long-term mandate to take effect on 1 January 2022. It's a legislatively serious approach. I find every other approach very unhappy from a legislative point of view. This is the subject of the fourth paragraph of the Senate amendment. As regards the reference to the ban on monetary financing, the Senate recommends that the text of the new law should leave the same provision as that currently in the current Act No. 192, stressing that this right is without prejudice to the prohibition on monetary financing. I know that this also follows from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union that, even without this, we could reason that monetary financing is prohibited and, of course, including direct shopping by the Czech National Bank of Government bonds, we could reason that, but I do not see one single reason why it would not be there in the future, for it is contained in the existing regulation that this government has also enforced. You know, everything has meaning. This reference, too, has a symbolic meaning in the banking sector. It is simply a certain legal certainty, and I do not identify with the Minister or with the Governor, if he comes forward on this matter, that, on the contrary, this reference might give the impression that this applies only to Section 32. It's not like that. We in the Senate have very, very consistently made sure that these amendments are completely, completely clean from a legislative point of view. To delete point 16, or the authorisation, the new authorisation of the Czech National Bank to establish legal entities, albeit for the purpose of carrying out legal tasks: here I would just like to add that a similar proposal has been made here, or it has been loaded in the Chamber of Deputies and has received quite a lot of support. You know, the explanatory memorandum deals with this possibility quite in detail, and that shows something. On the one hand, it says that this is a formal change, a change essentially irrelevant from the point of view of legal interpretation, because the Czech National Bank already has a stake in some institutions dealing with the implementation of payment arrangements with abroad, according to the interpretation of the law, the existing law on the Czech National Bank. The reason report also refers to some cases from the past, but they are already consumed, when the Czech National Bank had a share of its time, even a hundred percent share, in the so-called Czech Financial, which was a company from the transformation period that had long passed away. I see no reason why we would now be opening the door to the Czech National Bank, even if it was for the purpose of carrying out its tasks, and we could have a two-hour debate about what it all means, so that it could set up legal entities, so that different satellites could be connected to the Czech National Bank in the future. I believe we are to prevent this. I do not think that the Governor of the Czech National Bank would want to do so, to create any other legal entities, but we do not know what the Bank Board will look like in five or ten years, and if we do not release this point, we will leave it there, so very likely, I even supply the bordering with certainty, in five or six years we will have a number of different companies around the Czech National Bank, albeit based to carry out the tasks of the Czech National Bank. For this reason, the Senate is proposing to release this new or expressed option, which this amendment of the law brings. As far as the last proposal is concerned, it may have been most medially presented. These are moderate - I underline the moderate and give two exclamation points - an increase in so-called over-the-counter mortgage loans in a situation if the Czech National Bank actually made use of its authorisation given by this law and issued a measure of a general nature, the limits of the three credit indicators, but an increase of 5 per cent to 7,5 per cent. Here I have to say, and I stand by the statement I made in the Senate that it is not 20 billion, but according to the development of newly provided consumer loans secured by residential property, whether in the first quarter or now in the last month, we are getting to a maximum of 10 billion, and we are not going anywhere. What is the aim of the slight increase? To give commercial banks the opportunity to assess individually the ability of loan applicants to repay mortgages with their risk management or risk management departments, and this is also a response to the very responsible behaviour of commercial banks so far. Therefore, when I read what is the level of so-called outstanding loans or non-performing loans in the area of mortgages, it is only 0.8 and 0.88%, respectively, of all loans. That means we don't have to worry about commercial banks using this space in any way. It is a measure in favour of the possibilities of commercial banks to assess individually, especially in a situation where, as we know, real estate prices are going up, this will certainly be necessary, and it is also a measure in favour of mortgage applicants. [[16.40 hours]] These are the four amendments. I'm not gonna use any of the illustrations, the free ones, and the like used by the secretary. I agree that we should approve this bill. That is why the Senate did not reject this bill, but only returns it with four very reasonable, legislatively moderate and reasonable proposals. Members of Parliament, the Senate has tried to live up to its reputation with amendments, who, with some perspective and distance, are trying to pre-empt or prevent any possible risks to the future. That is why I am asking you to support the Senate's amendments, despite the fact that the Minister does not agree with them. Let us leave the prestigious duel whether the government or the Czech National Bank or the Senate are right in this case. It is a very important law and let us look for the maximum possible consensus, the maximum possible intersection so that this law is actually passed, has been approved by a large part of the votes of the Chamber of Deputies. I think that is the main thing that the Chamber of Deputies should do right now. The Senate did not reject this proposal, although of course many people may have various critical comments on the various parts of the law. I agree with the Minister that we should have this law, but if, after two years, we have already learned that this bill will be voted on today, let us do everything we can to ensure that this bill is of the highest quality and that there is a great deal of agreement in voting on this law on the political stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Senator Vladislav Vilímc. And before I give the floor to the rapporteur, Jiří Dolejš, if he is interested in speaking - he is not interested in speaking, so I state that there has been an apology to Ondřej Benešík from 16:00 to 18:00, and I open the debate in which the governor of the national bank is the first to sign up. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Honourable House, Madam Vice Prime Minister, Senator, we are in the finish of a rather long legislative process on this specific proposal, but I think it is a good thing that this has been discussed so honestly and thoroughly. I'll be very brief. This law moves the legislative framework for the functioning of an independent central bank from the 1990s to this century. I think that, after 20 years of this century, this country and the central bank deserve this. I thank the Senate for expressing its wisdom in that the Senate did not actually question the concept of this proposal, and in fact, on key points, it has neither reached nor suggested rejecting this law. I think it is a confirmation that the law has actually gone through a very honest debate, and neither has any fundamental position from the professional circles against this actually strengthening and making the independent functioning of the central bank more effective. From the point of view of the amendments with which the Senate is coming, I think those amendments are such that they do not improve the quality of the proposal that came out of the House, because they are in my opinion either redundant, for example by explicitly highlighting something that is obvious and that no one disputes both in the proposal and in legislative practice in general, that is, for example, a ban on monetary financing. Furthermore, with regard to free operations or open market operations of the central bank, the senát did not actually object. And that part of the amendment, which increases the exemption for possible regulation, and I stress the possibility that this is only an option for the central bank, if the situation so evaluates, the intervention in the mortgage market, when I have to simplify it, from 5 to 8 per cent, has already explained very precisely to the Minister. Indeed, the original proposal contained 3% of the exemption. Then, if I speak for the Czech National Bank, we agreed to extend the exception to 5%, but its further extension would mean essentially erosion of this law and its meaning, so I apologize, but I cannot accept this proposal. If I opposed the proposal that fell here in the House debate at 8 percent, I guess I can't agree with the proposal at 7.5 percent right now. That would really make me feel somewhat inconsistent. So, in summary, I think the House proposal is fine. In fact, he also went through a crucifixion in the Senate, and I would therefore like to approve the version that came from the House as regards approval. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u9	I thank the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok, and we will continue the debate where Mr Tomáš Martínek is registered. Jan Jakob will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u10	Thank you. I would only briefly reflect our position. On the one hand, I acknowledge that the Senate has improved the House proposal. For example, there is my amendment, which I tabled here in the House, on the release of the regulation in the creation of legal entities. But the crucial thing for us, i.e. the transparency of quantitative easing operations, is also lacking in the Senate version. On the one hand, I am pleased that the Governor has already guaranteed here by the word that the transparency of the Czech National Bank will be greater than the ECB is and always will be. I take this and here I recall again this at least verbal commitment, which has fallen here, that at least quantitative easing operations will be at least as transparent in the near future as they are published by the ECB, i.e. in a given dimension, the proportion of the number and importance of all the operations it adds to this. In addition, another problem remains in the proposal, namely the determination of DTI and DSTI parameters for mortgages, when we consider that the sufficient parameter is the LTV parameter, which fully covers the risk of the loan for both the client and the bank. On the contrary, we consider DTI and DSTI problematic from the point of view that there is speculation over the income of a person for the future, which may not be true the next day. In the same way, many banks may have problems recognising some income, such as fixed-term work, scholarships, flat-rate tax or flat-rate payments, etc. I am also glad that my amendment, which we have tabled together with my colleague Nacher, has been adopted in relation to the fact that there should be some mitigation of the rules for persons up to a certain age when the current proposal is 36 years old. I have a bit of a reminder there that I am sorry that the amendment has not passed or that it has not been possible to vote on it, which would increase the limit to 40 years. This would actually unite the age limit with the State Investment Support Fund, where the age of 40 is also indicated for young people's loans. And now we have two unnecessary ages that are not entirely justified in why they are different. I understand that people up to this age are much more likely to grow incomes faster. Likewise, they are expected to remain on the labour market for much longer in order to pay off their loans. That is why we wanted this condition to be more moderate so that the formal association of those applicants was not necessary, but that it could really be anyone who asked, and if at least one fulfills the condition to have the relief given. Well, that didn't work. It's a little unhappy in there, but I take it it's something. [[16.50 hours]] However, in particular, given that the transparency of quantitative easing operations is not guaranteed by law, we cannot support the proposal either by the Senate or by the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u11	I thank Mr Martínek. I now have Mr Václav Votava's factual comment. Ready is Jan Jakob. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, this law has been a major issue for the last parliamentary term. Finally, it was not negotiated because it was the credit parameters that were the alpha and omega of the decision whether to support or not to support. I was fundamentally opposed to the imposition of a legal obligation on banks to comply with these credit parameters by law, because I think our banks are healthy and responsible. After all, stress tests are consistent. And as my colleague Martínek said, I think that if only one parameter would be completely sufficient, namely the parameter of the ratio of the amount of loans to the total values of the mortgaged properties. I won't support a single version. The Senate may have tried to improve it, but I think it's a rather weak patch. It bothers me a lot -- well, I'm sorry -- that he didn't find more courage to cut into it. But apparently it was some kind of arrangement that he respected in this way. Yes, an improvement by a percentage or by 2.5 percent, if I am counting well, when the bank does not have to strictly comply with legal restrictions, although there is some improvement, but I think that is absolutely insufficient for me. So I will not support both the Senate version and the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Jan Jakob now. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that I was a little disappointed in the first version approved in the Senate. I expected the Senate to be a little braver, and how it fell from previous speakers, especially given the credit indicators relating to mortgages, so that commercial banks could set their risk and interest more freely, which they subsequently realised their profit, which is part of their business. On the other hand, when I think about it more, and as it has fallen here, the Czech National Bank Act has not been amended for a long time, and it is definitely necessary, so on the other hand, after my prolonged thinking, I would like to thank the senator and the Senate for the Senate proposal they sent here. I've been here for these long discussions, when we've divided into two absolutely irreconcilable camps. In the end, I must admit that the Senate, even if it had the strength to do so, sent us a compromise option, I would say a wise one that could have a general consensus. Although I do not fully agree with the proposal, and I would have a number of complaints, certainly the other side of our dispute, which is behind the original House variant, will perceive this, albeit from a second point of view, similarly, so I am very much in favour of approving the Senate version at this point. This is how our club will vote. And if that had not been approved, we cannot support the House version. So please, let's consider supporting this compromise - a wise, senator who doesn't like anyone, no one seems to think it's optimal, but it's a compromise that we can find a wider consensus on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar in the debate. I'll give him my word right now. I'll ask the House for peace again. I'm looking in front of me. Nice ladies, I don't want to name you. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, Mr. Governor. I have performed here several times both in the first, in the second and third readings of this amendment of the law, I have long spoken here about our reservations about this amendment. And, as the Minister himself and the Governor himself confirmed, the Senate brings in some parametric changes in this bill, but the two important instruments I had reservations about persist, so my reservations about these instruments also persist. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments I had because you've heard them enough. Nevertheless, allow me to respond in my speech to some of the things that have been said here. The secretary here said in her speech that it turned out that the quantitative easing instrument had stabilized the market. I would like to draw attention to the fact that each coin has two sides, and the reverse side, say, the risk of this quantitative easing instrument, is the risk of currency depreciation due to high inflation and, as a result, population savings. Of course, it depends on the extent of the use of this instrument, but neither the legislative power nor the executive power will have any effect on this scope of use after approval. I just want to point out in this context that we already have high inflation. We are all beginning to feel this, and if there is really a massive use of this instrument, inflation will only further stimulate it. With this amendment to the law, we would allow the Czech National Bank to enter the financial market, buy shares and bonds at its discretion, thereby allowing them to say maybe influx of simply issued money into the economy, but this would be secondary to the shift, for example, of investment in other sectors and the creation of some bubbles, such as the real estate, which the Czech National Bank wants to regulate thanks to the mortgage instrument. [[17,00 hours]] As far as mortgages are concerned, I would also like to point out, like the Senator here, that the Czech banking market is conservative. The own risk assessment and customer credit work by the banks themselves. The senator himself said that we're moving below 1% of the outstanding housing loans. It is therefore quite indisputable that the previous form of recommendation was sufficient, notabene, when banks were following it in most cases, but they remained free to deviate, for individual assessment of each individual case. The proposal to increase these competences in the area of mortgages is such a typical example of legislation, where the scope for individual decision-making is narrowing, narrows the scope for the agreement of two legitimate entities, in this case the bank - clients. That is why I believe that we do not need to centralise decisions on mortgage conditions and, at the same time, centrally established exemptions and centrally established quotas for these exemptions. This centralisation significantly strengthens the role of the central bank in housing policy, which we should primarily address here in the House. I have said it repeatedly here that the government is moving decisions on the availability of ownership for our citizens to the central bank. And it is precisely the strict use of these instruments by the central bank that can reduce people's access to ownership housing in a significant way, and it may even happen that, in the wrong setting and misconception of credit indicators, many families will not reach a mortgage and will be held in the rental housing sector, even though, for example, the actual repayment of the mortgage would be identical to the amount of the rent. Even in such a paradoxical situation, we can get into such a situation if the central bank does not make the right decisions sometime in the future. And once again, we as too legislative and our followers will have no effect on that. For this reason, because of both instruments of the amendment to the Central Bank Act, I will not support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u17	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Mr Skopeček is also reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u18	Thank you very much for the floor, for a very short time. I was about the longest time I'd come up with this law than any other. I consider the law to be very bad, and I consider it bad, both its House version and its Senate version. Although the senators have improved the original proposal by at least one millimeter, the law is wrong, harmful and unnecessary for the Czech Republic, and it would be better if no version of the law, neither Senate nor Houses were to apply. The law wants to give the Czech National Bank tools for quantitative easing. I do not agree with this dramatically, because it is nothing that the Czech Republic needs and what would be good. Even today, the Czech National Bank has problems keeping inflation in its target zone, forecasting how inflation will evolve, heading upwards. I am afraid that other European economies, which also used quantitative easing, or their European central bank, will experience a similar path. Nor do I think that the Czech National Bank needed other instruments to regulate the mortgage market. In my opinion, the Czech National Bank is trying to put out its own fires, which it has created with extremely relaxed monetary policy. [[to]] I do not think that the problem of rising housing prices can be solved by monetary or financial instruments by the Czech National Bank. The main problem is that there is little construction in the Czech Republic, and until we adjust construction and territorial regulation, the Czech National Bank will not solve it with any mortgage regulation. The Minister of Finance is looking forward to this standard because it will make it easier for the Czech National Bank to buy government bonds and thus reduce artificially the price of government bonds. I understand that, especially when the Minister is unable to come up with a credible rational consolidation of public finances. The financial market, which increases the interest of our ten-year government bonds, is already responding to the failure to come up with consolidation of public finances. However, this is because of our public deficits and how the government is unable to do anything about it. The Czech National Bank will certainly not overwhelm it, or push it over for a limited period of time, but the problem of structural imbalances, the collapse of public finances, will appear later, even if the Czech National Bank buys government bonds that are sufficient for it. It is a dangerous law, it is wrong if the Czech Parliament approves it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too, and I'm looking in the hall to see if anyone else is joining the debate. Mr Ferjenčík, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that if the powers of the Czech National Bank are broadening like this - and from my point of view, they are spreading too much, both in the area of monetary instruments and in the area of mortgage market regulation - then the control of the institution should also be adequately strengthened. That is why we have proposed an increase in the transparency of the Czech National Bank, both at the level of operating expenditure and at the level of the transparency of monetary operations. Unfortunately, these proposals have not been adopted and, therefore, we cannot support this proposal either in the Houses or in the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, I don't see anyone else enrolled in the debate. I will look once again and end the debate. [[Gong.]] I'll ask if there's any interest in any final words from the secretary or senator? No. We'll take the vote in accordance with paragraph... Excuse me, Mr. Senator has shown interest in the final word. I give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm just going to specify one piece of information that came out of Governor Rusnok's mouth here to increase over-the-counter loans. He said that if he wasn't in the House for 8 percent, he wasn't even 7.5%. For 8% the governor could not really be, because such a proposal was not loaded in the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Skopeček's proposal was loaded to 10 per cent, so I considered it necessary to clarify this, and the 7.5 per cent is exactly in the middle of the increase proposed by Mr Skopeček. I consider this an entirely appropriate matter and I believe that this proposal will be supported by the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u23	I thank you and we will now proceed to the vote pursuant to Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, according to House press 532/5, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 532/6.' I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 30, registered in 176 Members, for 5, against 74. The motion was denied. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. Kvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House's Press 532/5.' I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 31, 177 Members signed in, for 125, against 44. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. Checking for votes? [[The vote is being reviewed.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u24	Dear colleagues, Mr President, I would like to say that on the list I have shown that I voted in favour, I voted against, but I do not question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Next - Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u26	I, too, like my colleague, have a say in high school, but I voted against it. I do not question the vote. Thank you. [[Vice-President Hanzel: Are you not questioning me?]] Yes, I'm not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-25-ps2017-104-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. If that's all we can do, then we can move on to discuss another law, and that's
