ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u1	310. Proposal by Members of Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Petr Fiala, Marian Jurečka, Jan Farský and others for the issue of the State Aid Act in emergency measures announced in connection with the SARS CoV-2 Corona epidemic (reparation Act) /House print 1039/ - first reading Here I interrupted Minister Havlíček in de facto, but the Minister probably said everything he wanted to say. So now we will give - I had no prior rights here, so Mr. Milan Feranec has the floor and Mr. Mikuláš will prepare himself... No. Sorry, I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Feranec, well, because I actually have a position here that, on behalf of the Pirate Club, Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, I'm giving you some space. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am now acting as a Member, not as a rapporteur. The Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry and Trade and Transport have said several reasons why the law is misspelled. I'll sum it up and make a suggestion. The reservations are: first they are general and then specific. The general reservation is: the philosophy of compensation is changing at all. Since autumn, efforts have been targeted here, according to affected industries etc. That's not what this law says. It's flat, and when I paraphrase it, everything and everyone. All equals no difference in the degree of damage - large, small, completely one. A shop in the village, a jewelry store in Paris, gambling rooms, casinos, everything. And all that without control, any cost control. Any checks on costs! Here it was going to be quick and administratively undemanding. The opposite is true! The law doesn't even designate an authority to deal with those requests. The government's supposed to pick him. Regardless of the budgetary rules. It is not at all from which budget item. [[listed]] Of course, no impact on the state budget. I understand that this is their flagship, but that flagship has a very leaky bottom. Terrible! She won't sail, or she'll sail, and she'll sink in the harbor. It won't help anything, it'll just block the entire harbor. For this reason, I propose rejecting the bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u3	Yes, I'm marked. And now, with the opinion of the Pirates' MP, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the pirát have long advocated a clarification of the aid system. In the long run, we draw attention to the fact that the government has a legal obligation to pay compensation, and it is necessary to give it some meaningful framework in order not to overwhelm the courts with disputes about the compensation for the closure that the government is making in the fight against the epidemic. So, in our view, it is absolutely necessary to adopt a legislative framework for the compensation of entrepreneurs. We think the pandemic law can do that. We think that, specifically for this area, this press can be used as a carrier. There are other legislative solutions, but there is simply a need not to stick your head in the sand and resolve this because there is a really large crowding of courts through claims for damages. And the second thing is that we need to give a meaningful framework to government aid that works for some sectors. Unfortunately, sectoral exceptions are multiplying. Almost every week there will be some specific sector-oriented program of COVID bus type - Seating or now COVID - Congresses and trade fairs. Of course, I am glad that at least those who shout as much as possible are doing well to encourage it not to fail sectors that are limited by those measures, but it is not only possible to help those who are the most yelling and have the best PR. It is necessary to set meaningful rules for all, for this reason we will support this proposal and we believe that it can be used as a means for some consensual solution across the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u5	Mr Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and Mr Jan Skopeček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u6	Thank you once again for the floor, Mr President, one more good day, colleagues and colleagues. The Minister said that in order for aid to be effective, it must be quick, simple, and I will supplement, it must be, in particular, sufficient. And you really have in this room. Colleagues and colleagues, the feeling that help is really quick is really simple and is it really sufficient? Since the existing aid, except for exceptions, is not rapid, is not sufficient, let alone simple. For the simplicity - except for the exceptions - for the simplicity, there is an exception to the compensation bonus. The government has dozens of programs in which no one knows what to do, which are particularly distinguished by their complexity and bureaucratic demands, and different rules apply to everyone. The government hit on a method that the more programs, the better. But that's not the case. The amount of programs does not automatically mean they cover everything. On the contrary, many companies have been forgotten in this system and many sectors have been forgotten. The Minister has called it a more appropriate form here, and I would prefer to say that it seems more like more programs look rather marketing-wise, but they do not lead to the goal. The rapporteur here compared the law to a ship that won't leave port. I'd say if I borrowed his paraphrase, that instead of one ship that can sail, we have a lot of boats that are confused about the harbor, but they're not going anywhere, and they're not going anywhere. [[12.20 hours]] Just take an example of who everything has been forgotten because many companies have been forgotten in this complex system. All companies that are secondarily affected by the fact that their customers are closed, for example, specifically companies supplying to closed restaurants and pubs, companies supplying goods, companies supplying services or mini-breweries, which do not supply to supermarkets but only to closed restaurants and pubs, have been forgotten. That's where the slumps are huge. But there's a lot more of these companies that have a huge slump in turnover, and that's only in the gastro-sector. They've all been forgotten, too. At most, what the state is offering them today are state guarantees, but still in the finals, these companies will find it difficult to obtain loans from Komerční banka, because either by closing them or by falling turnover, they have a high credit risk score. So it's a dead end. Even for those companies that have not been forgotten, there are large differences due to the setting of different programs. For example, take only the difference - I was discussing this here in the first part with the Minister - if someone is doing business in the space he rents, there is support in the COVID - Rent or in my loan-bought area, he pays back his mortgage, but he does not have repayment support. The minister here said - I'm sorry he's not here to discuss it - so he said here that it applies to them, like restaurants, COVID - Gastro converted into employees. But this also applies to those who can draw COVID - rent. So, of course, the inequality remains there. And why am I talking about this? Because not only closed but also affected companies remain a lot of costs, and if it doesn't work out and it doesn't work out quickly, it was too late yesterday, so it will only increase secondary insolvency, it will go through the economy, it will just pack up like a snowball and eventually it will be an avalanche that will swamp our economy. We can already see the consequences of the inadequacy of measures, compensatory measures. 23,000 businessmen only ended in January, famous, established and traditional companies start to collapse, we see disappearing shops and empty expenses. I personally know a lot of businessmen and owners of companies who had to take a mortgage on their housing, on their apartment, on their house to cover their costs, and now they really don't have anywhere else to take. It is therefore necessary to solve the programs as such and at the same time to set them up. The Minister of Finance said here that he must also be careful not to unduly raise funds from the state budget. To care, yes, for example, for control, but by giving this government, and it seems to be one of the top priorities, in the finals, help kills because the programs are bureaucratically complicated. For example, look at the Antivirus program - 40 percent of controlled companies is reduced by support due to administrative errors, for example a day later they sent contributions or the employee came to pay his wages in cash later than he should. And those are the reasons for reducing aid. Is that real help then? Such an approach denies the fundamental meaning of aid and support. These programs are not a subsidy advantage on the market, this is really just compensation. What do you need? The need is not to burden businessmen and companies with a lot of paperwork in a difficult situation, not to approach them with preventive mistrust, but to use, for example, data that the state already has, for example, from tax returns from previous years and so on. In this law, we propose that the fixed costs of companies be covered, and of course we can discuss setting up whether by fixed costs or by turnover. We're ready for the debate. Madam Secretary here said it's much better individually by sector, so different seats and so on. But what better way to talk about the situation in companies than to compare their costs with the previous periods and the decline in sales? What is fairer to judge than the fall in turnover? And that's what we can discuss. However, costs are certainly a better criterion than the number of seats needed. Of course, to set this right, it is necessary to select a comparative period appropriately. As I said here, we are not opposed to the debate if the government were to hold it, but especially the government is not discussing it with us. We learn about the programs from government press releases that she invented over the night, and immediately we get a lot of comments from entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce, entrepreneurs from practice about it being complicated, perhaps inappropriately set up, and because of that, some companies may not be able to draw. In my opinion, the compensation law is an opportunity, and I also ask the government Members to take this as an opportunity to discuss the setting up of these programmes and the concrete form of assistance here in the House. However, the motion for rejection put forward by the rapporteur here does not lead me to believe that this open debate will take place. If there were open and reasonable communication from the government from the beginning, it could have been resolved and even yesterday's discussion and the outcome could have looked different. To ban someone from doing business or restricting their business by government regulation is not a classic business risk, so compensation must be sufficient. We are talking about nothing less in this law than saving small and medium-sized companies, which are the backbone of the economy and the largest employer. We can't afford to lose them. The more they get into bigger and deeper problems, the longer the whole economy and our entire state will get out of the crisis, and yet no one wants that. The Minister here spoke of 200 billion direct aid to entrepreneurs. If you remember correctly, at the beginning of the epidemic and the first wave began, the Minister's mouth dropped numbers such as 1,200 billion helping the economy, etc. If I take 200 billion, the Minister and the Ministry of Finance, based on the table published at the end of the year, have counted a lot of things that are not directly used by entrepreneurs and the economy, but, well, I'll be tolerant, I'll admit 200 billion, so it's a very small amount of originally announced 1,200 billion. Direct aid is far from those subjects and is much smaller than needed. But either we can approach everything critically, the Minister and the rapporteur will tear this proposal apart, we can rip off one government program at a time, and then we'll never get out of it. Therefore, I appeal to you: take this as an opportunity for discussion in the next reading, for program settings. We can change this, we can jointly prepare a comprehensive amendment that will adjust the government's comments, but the goal should be to be common and the goal is to save our economy, our companies, and especially the livelihood of people who have often built these companies for many years, and their employees. Please hear the appeal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u7	I will now ask for Mr Jan Jakob's speech and Mr František Vácha will prepare himself. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Finance has been talking about luring funds out of the state budget. So I have to go completely against this. The Minister's assumption that entrepreneurs want to abuse the system in advance is absolutely incomprehensible to me, and it is disrespect for entrepreneurs and businessmen. Especially from someone who has proposed and enforced a gigantic deficit in the state budget, and has not taken any measures at all on the budget's spending page. I find it completely irresponsible. [[12.30 hours]] What is more for both society and the state budget as a result? The fact that a few people are likely to abuse the system, or the fact that we are not going to let our businessmen fall, that we are going to help them, and that we are going to secure the revenue of the state budget in the future? This approach to entrepreneurs is absolutely astonishing. The Minister has already said that the bill of compensation is not fair, that it has a number of different legislative shortcomings. I think we're all here ready to talk about the shortcomings of the proposal, the different parameters. But to do that, we need space to let the bill go through the first reading today. What do entrepreneurs need? Entrepreneurs need clear rules, they need to be able to predict so that they can set their expectations for the future, they need freedom of decision-making, and they can assess risks. They're having a really hard time at this time. This bill of compensation helps make the environment clearer, so that they know clearly what they are entitled to, according to their decisions, to assess their risks and, above all, to make it easier for the state to be more friendly so that entrepreneurs have support and, above all, not to wrap up their business. This is more important for the state budget than the assumption that entrepreneurs will lure funds out of the state budget. I beg you, let us put this bill into further reading and let us talk about specific parameters, concrete measures so that this law can serve entrepreneurs in the future. It will be for the benefit of all of us and for the benefit of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u9	The final enrollment, Mr.František Vácha, will now appear. And then Mrs Adamová Pekarová is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. I'll be brief, I won't talk long, because the motion to dismiss came from a government coalition, so I guess the government coalition is somehow determined to vote. However, we have heard a lot of arguments for and against from the Minister, from the petitioners. I have one thing that didn't come up here that I'd like to say. The law isn't just about covid. This is a system solution for the future, which in some way is intended to address not only the situation in which we are now, but situations that can come up at any time with any other pandemics or solutions to some emergency situation. We are witnessing that the government will come up with a solution. The opposition doesn't like the solution. The opposition will come up with some other solution, and then the government will come up with a solution that she copied from the opposition, and will somehow enforce it in the House. I am almost 100% certain that this will probably happen with this law, because the system solution will not be avoided. The system solution will have to come up someday. Today we have the opportunity to start discussing the system solution, prepare it and prepare it in time, prepare it correctly in cooperation with the opposition - the coalition. When we agreed to extend the emergency situation, the opposition here argued all the time by coming up with new arguments, coming up with solutions, and the coalition doesn't accept the solutions, it doesn't want to hear them, and then someone wonders that if the coalition doesn't support the opposition, then the opposition won't support the coalition. So I would really like to ask you to think about whether not to let this law, the bill go on to second reading, to extend the deadline, not to think about adjusting it so that we can come out in time with a systemic solution not only to the crisis that we have here now, but to other crises that may come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u11	Now, Mrs Pekarová Adamová with priority rights, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u12	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to some of the criticisms that are being raised here because I think it is important that we really move from plenary to committees in this debate, where it is possible to work out the reservations that are being raised here. Of course, the biggest reservation I understand, from Minister Schillerová, about the cost of the proposal, as I said in my previous contribution: it is really very difficult to estimate when we cannot predict ahead, firstly, the duration of the measures and the number of affected companies, the tradesmen, because we do not know how many sectors the government will close with its decision, we do not know how extensive the measures will be, so we predict it. If the secretary has some kind of crystal ball, I'd be happy to borrow it from her, and we'd be happy to add it to the proposal. But I'm sure even the government couldn't do that. However, what is certain is that the figures for last year are quite clear. The trade of the most tradesmen in history, under the modern history of the Czech Republic, has ended or interrupted. Of course, this trend continues this year, and in its first weeks we have seen similar numbers that are certainly not positive for all of us. These people, if they had legal support and support, they would not necessarily have to quit in most of them. Not every businessman, of course, has fixed costs, not everyone has an establishment and pays rent, but a large part of them does. Of course, for those, the proposal is a much better solution, a lot better solution than individual government programs. Let's translate this debate to people. If you're against the system predictable principle, they can also interpret it as being actually convenient for you to keep in the hands of ministries tools to declare programs whose different conditions may change over time, because it's much, much easier than changing the law. And it suits you to set the terms so that it is a sieve that many simply fail. Where is this intent, there is no effort to help. This needs to be clearly translated to people, because that's just how it sounds. It suits you to have dozens of inconspicuous programs and you hide it for the purpose that everyone is not affected by the crisis as well. But this is simply solved by the law too, but there is a balance between the ban on business. If there is simply a sector, and there are such sectors that are not affected by the crisis, which, on the contrary, can benefit from it, because, for example, online sales logically, when small sales are banned and people cannot go to stone stores, are growing. Of course, no one wants to help such people, not even according to the law. [[12.40 hours]] So targeting whether someone is losing their chance to do business because it is forbidden to do business is absolutely conclusive, it is simply detectable and cannot be cheated on because the state, or government, ministries issue it with their regulations. So this is a mystification that current, very inconspicuous aid in more than 40 programs is essentially more targeted, better. On the contrary, this aid is more transparent, better targeted. Whatever is lacking in the proposal in terms of feasibility, application, usability in ministries, let's talk about it, let's make an amendment. I would be very pleased if, instead of rejecting the proposal right away, the government would give us the help of its thousands of officials at its disposal, maybe one, two will suffice, and with them we will be happy to write an amendment to suit the practice that you claim does not suit. This solution is much more constructive than saying, "We're confusing, we're giving it a stop sign, it's nonsense, from our point of view we're doing great." Ask these thousands of people how you handle this perfectly. This is the cooperation we're calling for here. And we've heard it from you, and we've heard it from the Prime Minister that you want us to be in the same boat, to give a hand, to pull together, and I don't know what other parallels we've heard here. This is the effort we wrote for you. Let's face it. We've been challenging you since spring. Let's write it down, you've got the capacity much better than we do. We have a paid one, two assistants and an expert who isn't really at the level that would pay an army of officials like you who are paying you those people from your taxes. So let's try to change what's bothering you so much that you think it's technically wrong, and let's move on with our forces. Because if you don't want to do that, in other words, you're saying that it suits you not to have a system and legal help to those people, and it suits you only to have it firmly in your hands, from which you don't want to let go - so it is clearly possible to translate - so that you can show the tables in which you say: This is what we have arranged, this is what we have sent you, dear businessmen and entrepreneurs; to create such a tension in society that many who are not physically involved do not personally have to do with it, because there is a lot of talk about it, that everyone has actually gotten the help so many times that they have absolutely nothing to complain about. There are even statements from politicians from the government that some complain that the help is too big to make so much money. No one has ever demonstrated such a thing, no such example has ever been able to really show. Those are words that are completely out of reality. Yesterday, at the meeting that preceded the emergency situation, we made it clear - and there was also a promise from the Prime Minister - that we want to continue discussing those solutions with the government, that we want us to face the situation and that the efforts of people or the willingness of people, the motivation of people to comply with all the bans and measures with how they are or are not affected by the economic situation are very, very closely related. In short, if someone doesn't know what they're going to feed the children, pay the mortgage, and survive, they're going to become very desperate and desperate people taking desperate steps. I'm sure we've noticed that many times in the last few months. We want to prevent that, too. That's why it has to do with people's willingness to follow all the regulations, not to do their own garage business. This has to do with how much we help them, and that also has to do with how well the epidemic is managed and managed. There's just a close link. As much as the Prime Minister is trying to tell us, last night at the meeting, we're not supposed to deal with the epidemic and the economy in one package, that it doesn't have anything to do with each other - it's not true. It's not true, and sociological data is a strong evidence of that. So if it was promised by the Prime Minister in front of many other witnesses, it wasn't just between the two of us that the government was willing to talk to us about these things, proof is that you will not reject the law here today, because you knew very well, and the government has been given it many times, that this proposal is a key proposal for us to continue moving and addressing the situation together. If there is no communication between the Prime Minister and Members, I understand he has a lot to deal with, he has a lot to do, so check it out. So please check that I'm telling the truth here, that this has actually been said here. Please do this also for the sake of making it clear that we have a common will, a genuine common will to deal with the situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u13	Now here I have one point of fact, so Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, then one priority right, which is Mr Marian Jurečka, and then Mr Marek Benda. So please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to take the liberty of responding to my previous speaker, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, in the context that we probably do not listen to each other, because joining the emergency situation and the subsequent discussions between the coalition and the opposition are of course necessary, but in this case we are talking about the fact that this fundamental, which is here on the table at first reading, is basically useless in its mental base to be corrected in any way. We're talking about opening Pandora's cargo locker here, something that has no framework. You're saying that the subject of criticism is the inability to quantify some cost impact on the state budget at the moment based on a number of unknowns. But at the same time, it must be realised that if we had at least some of the elements related to the past experience of compensation granted to business entities, we will find that what is at the moment in the form of fixed costs and their remuneration on the table is indeed such an incredible, misdefinable matter that it can have very, very high impacts. And that can't be fixed, because there's a problem in the basement, in the basic idea that we're now turning to something that companies in their profit and loss accounts have different and different opinions. As far as corporate profit and loss accounts are concerned, I have seen a lot of them, and I even know very well how to work between fixed and variable costs. And the question of fixed costs is really something that can be played and speculated on in companies. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u15	I will now ask for a speech with Mr Marian Jurečka's priority right, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared as the last one in the general debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister, I believe that we will be able to discuss this here today at first reading, that we will move the law into committees and we can argue here, now what I saw here a moment ago, about the debate, what parameters it should have and whether the results and what the starting positions are supposed to be. All this with good will and willingness here this law, and above all predictableness, legibility, how it will become in any future crisis situations it will treat entrepreneurs or businessmen, companies that it has value, why we want to discuss this law here. If there is to be a parameter of 50 per cent or so, let's leave it to a professional debate, even with representatives of the ministries in the preparation of the law in committees before second reading. Then let's leave it to a common agreement, we're open to this agreement. I think that most of us, when we talk to businessmen, entrepreneurs, whether we are from the center, from the right, from the left, so often these people say, and in the long run, not one at the time of this epidemic, that they have a problem with the readability and predictability of the legal environment in the Czech Republic. What we are experiencing here right now is that there are dozens of different compensation programs that are being targeted very well, their motivation was correct, but in the meantime there are different white sites where help cannot be achieved and where these parameters simply are not objectively sufficient to enable people to cope with the situation. We see it in the example of the buses, we see it in the example of people who deal with the area of accommodation and so on. There are large economic differences of companies and we have instruments here besides accounting, technical support tools such as EET, which logically can serve very well for this. [[12.50 hours]] So please, nicely, let's talk about the basic principle of what the law brings. This is predictability, clarity in what the citizens of this country can expect from the government, from future governments in any crisis situation. That's what this law is all about. We're at first reading, we don't have to argue about specific parameters here. Let's leave that to the debate and work with the resorts. So please, let's support it, let's move on, let's set up committees to discuss it, and then we can do it successfully next month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u17	Mr Marek Benda will now be the last to speak in the general debate. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u18	Dear Vice-President, draftsman, ladies and gentlemen. I'll be brief to make it by the time we've got the next point. And as the rapporteur warned me, I promised never to speak to the budget, so I am not speaking to the budget section. I just wanted one comment. We already have a crisis law today, and we have compensation under the crisis law. On 15 January of this year, he sent us - he sent out to the club presidents, but of course some of us were in hand - the Minister of the Interior sent his letter that no compensation for spring under the crisis law would be valid - perhaps you all read it - with simple justification that it was legislation that the government could not pay for the virus and therefore no compensation will be paid for the virus. To me, it seems completely misguided, completely misguided, even the legal argument, but I don't want to run into that here right now, and that will undoubtedly be argued by lawyers before the courts for several years. But it is an attempt by the Minister of the Interior, or the Ministry of the Interior, to move the problem to the next governments - now we will not pay a penny, they will judge it in three years and the next government will pay it in 2024, 2025. I consider that a great alibiism, a great alibiism. There's a crisis law already in force. Even today, if measures have been imposed on someone that have prohibited them from operating, the government is obliged to compensate for such measures. And when the opposition brings in a proposal that says, let's set out - because the range is really too big - let's set some criteria, some parameters, and let's talk about the parameters that will happen in the future, the government will say, "We don't want it." Government MPs are going to say, "We don't want it, we're handing out some presents graciously." And if anybody ever wins it under the legislation that's still in force, we don't care, because we don't count on the next time we rule. To me, this kind of communication seems extremely inappropriate and extremely unlawful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u19	I will look around to see if there is still interest in the speech in the general debate. I don't see anyone. So I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words. Designer? [[Yes.]] The rapporteur? [[No.]] You're interested in the plaintiff. Mrs. Langšádlová, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u20	Thank you for the floor. I'm not going to go into the details at this point. I would also like to express to the other petitioners that we are ready to discuss the amendment of these laws. And really with a big appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, let's put it into the next legislative process. It is essential to give our entrepreneurs confidence here, to give them hope, and to give them the support they need to survive. The conditions that today are chaotic, a lot of them have to return help. We see it's always targeted at the group that screams the most. We need to save all entrepreneurs as far as possible, and since their fixed costs are a burden that they cannot cope with in this situation, I believe that this proposal is, in principle, well designed. I also have to say that I listened to the secretary here today, wondering, when she said, "The emergency is over, so we're going to start writing another support." Did you think the emergency would be here forever, and then we'd go straight to normal without any regulation? That is why, at the moment, this proposal is very good, because it addresses the support both in the context of the crisis constraints and in the situation of the restrictions arising from the Ministry of Health and Hygiene regulations. Therefore, I think that both in terms of aid design and in terms of what situations can be used, it is a good proposal and let us look for a common way of helping entrepreneurs. Because the costs that we will pay in the form of economic, but also huge social frustration will be much greater than what their support would cost us at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u21	We will therefore now vote, so I will call the gong of all Members. [[Gong.]] Yeah, checkout request, so I'll check you out. Log in again with your voting cards. We have a motion to dismiss the motion. [[It's a delay. It is waiting for the Members to come to the Chamber.]] We will give the Members the floor to come. [[Gong.]] We have here a motion to reject the motion tabled by Mr Feranec. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of rejection? Who's against rejection? Voting number 340. 99 Members registered, for 48, against 44. The motion to dismiss was rejected. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. [[13.00 hours]] First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. We will take the vote. Who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 341, 99 Members registered, for 95, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this Committee to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? Mr. Feranec, then he'll be Jurečka. You checked in earlier?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u22	Thank you. In view of the importance, I really think it would be appropriate for the Economic Committee to address this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u23	The same proposal was made by Mr Jurečka. Is there another suggestion? It's not. So I'm asking who agrees with the motion being made... [[The noise in the hall.]] You okay? I thought someone had some objections to my progress. I am of the opinion that this proposal... Sorry, you see, you've got me all mixed up. [[With a smile.]] Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a further committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 342, 99 Members registered, 99 against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as another committee. I end the first reading of this proposal and pass the proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u24	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let's keep going. There's another point. Chairman Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u25	Good afternoon, colleagues. If the next item is an amendment to the Employment Act...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u26	I have a 13.30 fixed point here, but until then we would be dealing with the points as shown on the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u27	Thank you, so I was right. So if the next point, as in yes, is the amendment to the Employment Act, I'd like a ten-minute break for the club. I'm referring to the CSSD club because Minister Maláčová is on her way to the government meeting, so she'll be here at 13.10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u28	Copy that. There is therefore a request for a ten-minute break for the CSSD club. If no one objects to this break, I'll call a break by 1:10 p.m. Let me remind you, we have a fixed point at 1:30. So break to 13.10.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-12-ps2017-079-10-005-310.u29	Madam, honourable Members, Madam Secretary, it is 13.10 hours. Once again, good afternoon, we will continue our meeting where the item is now on the agenda.
