ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 325 and 326 / House prints 1008 and 1009/ We have repeatedly dealt with these Houses of Press on 12 May at the 102nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged debate. Minister Klára Dostálová and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Kolovratník, have already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. Before continuing the suspended debate, I would remind you that, by resolution 1649, we agreed to restrict speaking time to 10 minutes, with a maximum of twice in the debate. We will continue with the suspended merged debate, and I received a written request before the beginning of the meeting with the priority right of President Bartoš, and the Minister is reporting to me from the seat, also with priority rights. Does the President agree that the Minister should be the first to speak? [[Yes.]] Madam Secretary, in that case, you have the floor. Then President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank you so much for meeting us again today on the construction law. I believe that today we can come to a vote. First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate and, of course, for all the stimulating discussions we have on the construction law. At the same time, in accordance with Section 95a, I would like to use the whole time to discuss bills, i.e. from 9 to 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u3	Thank you. President Bartoš with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, representatives of the government. I'm only gonna get off briefly, maybe a little bit in response to the secretary here. Today is the day when we should get to the vote on more than a hundred, if I am not mistaken - and I was here last time to hold the shamon, because I do not know, for some reason, it always seems printed on the club, although we can read the digital documents - so perhaps this will show today's vote and negotiations to what level and how serious it is when the Ministry, or Mrs Dostálová, is talking about a stimulating debate. We are with the original government amendment, then the modified, so-called hybrid, and then the proposal put forward by Mr Kolovratník - which is the way back to the original proposal, on which the developers were very much involved - so we have been dealing with this for quite a long time. We have dealt with this to the extent that, under the Committee on Public Report and Regional Development, which this law belongs to, and which has been withdrawn as a guarantee committee - perhaps again at the request of the Minister - a fairly broad group of members of the democratic opposition, which, in cooperation with experts on its own axis, does not rely on the Economic Chamber or the Ministry's apparatus, presented its own proposal. A modern design based on digitalization, which follows trends. The 21st century trend is not centralization of agendas, it is not centralization of decision making. On the contrary, the trend is decentralization, the trend is subsidiarity. What does that mean? That the place where things happen is where they're decided. The proposal, which we presented as a group of Members - ODS, Pirates, KDU-ČSL, STAN or TOP 09 - aimed at the chamber, develops the original plan, which we have already set out in digital technical maps, saves money, saves time and has ambition to significantly accelerate the construction process. What is important, and I think it is important to mention this particularly in connection with the current covido and economic crisis, with the deficit state budget, with the crazy deficit planned for the next year in the preparation of the budget, when the proposal that we come up with as a Membership initiative in cooperation with experts and which has been given a green light in communication with the Union of Towns and Municipalities, but also with large cities, does not bring significant cost of realization. I will return to the original analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, which has basically responded to the law that we have here today. In this analysis, there was talk of nearly two dozen billion investments to change the system, the establishment of the Supreme Building Office, the transfer of agendas, the transfer of officials to this office. I think that this step, at a time when we need to be effective, fast and not create additional costs, would generate such costs on the part of a state where there is no money. They should go towards innovation, to companies, to recovery from the covidum, not to build another moloch, which the government proposed by the government - including Mr Kolovratník, through Mr President, because the proposal is cleverly hidden under his initiative - so it brings these costs and does not lead to that goal. So we are - and because obviously the will to declare this law and push it through here is, especially in relation to the votes of the SPD and the communists - prepared important amendments. One of the amendments is on the ground plan of the complex one, i.e. not to create another National Sports Agency, whose activities we had doubts about. Turns out it wasn't the right way. I see the parallel with the Supreme Building Authority. Don't create this super office, really solve those problems, processively and systematically. I would ask you to support this comprehensive amendment, but also a number of proposals that are trying to improve what is wrong with the government proposal. This is a strengthening of the role of self-government in the planning documentation, it is a guarantee of the protection of other interests that are coming into the system in the case of construction proceedings. There are proposals that lead to greater transparency in the construction process and a number of others resulting, for example, from the electronic building journal as an option for large buildings and the like. Thank you for your attention. I believe you will listen to the proposals and consider in the vote what our country really needs to speed up the building process. In our opinion, as well as the opinion of experts, the Super Office, where decision-making is centralized, does not lead to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u5	Thank you, too. I ask, who else is interested in speaking in the debate? prosit, Mr. Cernohorsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. So I will be shorter than I originally expected, in agreement with the Minister. I would just like to introduce a few of my amendments. Minister Zaorálek, here he said last time that one of the proposals I have is the reform of conservation care, which I believe is absolutely necessary if we want to reform building law. The big issue is that we need a reform of archaeology. That's one of the designs we have there. Of course, there may be some legislative shortcomings. If, of course, this does not pass as an amendment, I assume that we will probably present it as a larger amendment in the following parliamentary term, I suppose, in cooperation with the Ministry, because it is a rather large amendment, which is from 1987, and despite the minor amendments that have been made there, it is no longer consistent with the modern era. In addition to this great amendment, there are still a few smaller ones. This is, for example, an amendment under number 8026 concerning the pre-emptive law of the State for the preferential purchase of cultural monuments. This preferential right of the State to purchase is extended to all cultural monuments as amended by § 2 para. In the case of an intended sale, with a view to exercising this right of priority for the State to purchase cultural monuments, the case must be taken in so far as a private law provision is adopted. If it is a transfer in the case of ownership between close parties and so on, this shall not apply. It is very often a matter where some developer owns a property, which he brings through gradual steps into a detachable state, and at a time when we are already approaching a stage where conditions could arise for the possible expropriation of this monument, so suddenly it happens that it is transferred to some other eseróčko, some other company and others. In this case, it would be possible that the Ministry of Culture or the body asking for this could take this memory into its care and obtain it. This should enable this amendment. When I was not yet in the Chamber of Deputies, we also dealt with this issue within Ostrava, where we have a complex of buildings of Textile-Ostrava, within which two buildings are protected, one unfortunately not. The moment the infamous company Amádeus Real came to the property, in whose hands it was managed to devalue this memory, when the windows began to disappear, the building began to leak, the roof and other things were destroyed, so began various administrative proceedings and other moves, which unfortunately in some cases did not end practically so far. The memory is still not repaired. Various reinsurance works were carried out there, but in the meantime this monument could have been acquired, for example, by the city of Ostrava. There were some offers, but in this case the amount that was requested by the owner was so overvalued that, of course, it was not acceptable for the council to transfer this memory to its ownership. In a similar way, we can meet here with the behavior of various developers in various cities, which is why I have just presented the great amendment to conservation care, which also involved increasing various financial sanctions for owners. At the moment, the sanctions are inadequately low, because if, for example, you have a lucrative property in Prague or Ostrava somewhere in the historical centre with a building, when, if you manage to get it into such a state that it is taken away by conservation, suddenly you have land in hundreds of millions. Therefore, for you actually some fine of CZK 200,000, 300,000 is not a problem at all. In this case, the developers are very simply destroying these monuments in a variety of ways. In the proposed change, in the amendment, the Ministry of Culture is determined by who needs to be addressed in case you actually want to sell this memory, so before you make it, you need information from the Ministry, if you do not want to buy it first. If so, it should be based on the fact that it will, of course, be bought at an appropriate price, and then the monument will be assured that the state can possibly repair it and start using it as it needs. This is also related to the amendment to Section 15, which is Amendment 7945. Section 15 is a measure to ensure the care of cultural monuments. This proposal brings the institute known from Section 135 of the Construction Act, which gives the building office the power to order the owner of the construction to immediately remove the building and to ensure its removal if lives or animals are endangered by the fact that the building is in danger of collapse. In this case, the conservation authorities are obliged to protect the public interest in another section of the public administration, with the fact that, of course, their task is not to degrade and eliminate this construction, but to preserve it. In the case of the use of this institute, the conservation authorities should use the same regulation in the construction law, but its main purpose will be to repair and preserve this monument. Due to the wide range of objects of protection according to the conservation law, where in proceedings before the body of conservation can be not only buildings, but also paintings, sculptures, gothic madons, it can be for example locomotives or castle grounds or industrial areas, the person who carries out the necessary security work must be defined in these sections in general in order to be able to sub-classify the previous professional profession for this measure. Furthermore, the amendment brings the involvement of the authorities concerned in the proceedings for the imposition of corrective measures, in the form of a binding opinion pursuant to Section 149 of the Administrative Code, in determining the principle of concentration common in the Construction Act. The Ministry of Culture should therefore provide finance in accordance with the cross-cutting agreement of the central authorities of the state administration and the Office of the Public Protector of Rights, which responds to the similar aforementioned Institute in the Construction Act. [[Ombudsman]] The provision of funds for this purpose should be a return grant. This means that the Ministry of Culture would designate the relevant municipality or region, whose body of conservation care has given a decision to impose an obligation in the first instance as recipient of funds, and would therefore send it to the relevant municipality. The municipality would accept these funds as State budget funds. The programme, which will regulate the rules for granting these subsidies, provides, inter alia, for the requirement to demonstrate the actual recovery of the funds thus spent against the owner of the municipality. The procedure in this case is based on Sections 7 and 19 (2) of the basic Regulation. 2 of the Act on Budgetary Rules and amending certain related laws, as amended, with an amendment to the expropriation of cultural monuments, which is therefore the ultimate and extraordinary instrument of conservation, being part of this proposal. When it comes to the legitimacy of the expropriation of cultural monuments, it can be pointed out that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that expropriation is a measure which can justify the protection of cultural heritage, in particular the need for its conservation and sustainable exploitation. This is a situation where there is no dispute that a farmhouse has cultural-historical value, which is particularly true when the farmhouse is provided with protection as a cultural monument at national or even international level, and, above all, it is not possible to ensure the preservation of the farmland other than expropriation. This proposal does not contradict the institute of expropriation of the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The construction of the expropriation institute allows its use only if the monument care body has been effectively taken by statutory steps to protect the monument in question. The owner of an expropriated cultural monument would become a state. The expropriation will be procedurally subordinate to the general standard, that is to say, Law No. 184/2006 Coll., on the withdrawal or limitation of ownership of land or construction, Act on expropriation, as amended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u7	[[He turns to the President and speaks off the microphone:]] I can give you priority rights so you don't have to... Or if it's someone's turn?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u8	Well, we'd probably... we've been discussing this recently on the grémia that would require a proper apology from the club president. He's...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u9	[[He's talking off the microphone:]] For health reasons. But I'll let go...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u10	Okay, I'll take that as a priority. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u11	Thank you, thank you. The expropriation of the cultural monument is therefore the ultimate and extraordinary instrument of conservation. When it comes to the legitimacy of the expropriation of cultural monuments, it can be pointed out that the case law of the European Court of Human Rights states that expropriation is a measure which can justify the protection of cultural heritage, in particular the need for its conservation and sustainable exploitation in a situation where there is no dispute that this is an important monument. The owner of the expropriated cultural monument would become the Ministry of Culture with the fact that the State Heritage Act must respect the regulation of the new Civil Code and therefore must not redistribute ownership of the building and the land on which the construction is located. For this reason, it will also be possible to expropriate land which is not declared a cultural monument in accordance with this new provision if the expropriated building, which is declared a cultural monument and which is part of this land. If the expropriation of only parts of the property is sufficient, the entire plot will not be expropriated. The Ministry will determine which organisational component of the state or state-owned entity will be behind the state instigator of expropriation and which will at the same time fulfil the public interest in protecting cultural monuments and repair the expropriated cultural monument. In view of the diversity of cultural monuments and their specific characteristics, it cannot be concluded in general that the public interest for the State could necessarily be defended by a single subject, and therefore the regulation requires the Ministry to identify an entity which, in view of its tasks and characteristics, will best fulfil the legal purpose envisaged by law, which is to preserve such a cultural monument. Another amendment that we have there is Amendment 8048, namely Section 33, the role of the public. As part of this justification, the existing conservation law does not foresee public participation in the protection of architectural heritage. However, the Czech Republic has committed itself, and is based on the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe, that the Czech Republic must somehow establish appropriate mechanisms at different stages of the decision-making process for the provision of information, consultation and cooperation between the State, regional and local authorities, cultural institutions and associations and the public. The anchoring of the participation of the aforementioned entities in the protection of architectural heritage also follows from Article 14 of the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. This provision requires the Parties to establish cooperation at different stages of the decision-making process - as I said - between the State and those public interest groups. The provision on the role of the public in the protection of architectural heritage therefore introduces a completely new element in the possibility for the aforementioned entities organised in the area of protection of architectural heritage to cooperate, under certain conditions, with public authorities in the way described in the article of the Convention on the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. Such subjects can be, for example, Club Za starou Prahu, Association of Professional Workers of Monument Care, Monument village Český Krumlovská, Association of Associations for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic or Artistic Society. The focus of the relevant entity, which is the protection of the architectural heritage, may not satisfy its name, but the actual purpose of its activities. For example, this requirement is usually met by associations whose domain is rather educational, cultural and other activities. So, this is for the presentation of the amendments. At this point, I would like to respond to one of the e-mails that arrived yesterday from representatives of the capital city of Prague, in which they called for us to possibly support the abolition of the binding noise limits offered by colleagues here in the framework of the amendments. They will inform us there that, in fact, without this modification, it would not be possible in the future in historical centres, for example, to allow the operation of trams, to build new connections and more. However, if we leave Prague in this case and we get to other areas, and anti-noise measures, as has probably been correctly mentioned here, are very often a place of dispute, but it is necessary to defend people in this respect. I have already consulted this issue with the Minister, who has promised to give a strong dissenting opinion, which I would ask you to respect, because we have exactly the opposite problem in Ostrava, and it is, for example, the noise barriers that are along the motorways, along the D1 motorway, within which we are promised to carry out various measurements, which would possibly determine whether the citizens - specifically in this case the city or the district of Hošťálkovice - are or are not excessively burdened by noise. In their case, it is very often the case that they are in a place where they are not protected by this noise-resistant wall, which will need to be extended, but if we leave these limits for the future only as voluntary, in this case we would take away the possibility in many cases of ŘSD to invest in these noise-resistant walls, because very often the opposition of citizens is precisely due to the fact that there will be noise in the future and it will disturb their well-being. In this case, and in many others, the parliamentary proposals have been followed a little destructively, because, in the past, there have been some disputes, whether local citizens or associations, so in many cases the court has stood up for these citizens or associations in which it annulled the decision. Very often it happens that, in some way, whether it's some way, it's going to be exposed to some sound model that makes the numbers work beautifully for us, but then in a real case, when these measurements happen there, people are very often at the border because of the method of calculation, and that's why they are very often calling off and demanding the completion of these noise-resistant walls. We have also discussed this matter with the director of ŘSD and one of the proposals that could potentially enable and speed up this construction would rather be legislative regulation - but we do not have a Minister of Transport here - which would in some way allow benevolence for these calculations, for example, for the director of ŘSD, which would allow him that, in the case of a border case, the possibility of having those noise measures built up, or in some way, to satisfy the needs of citizens living in the vicinity of motorways or various other railway lines. So in this case, I'd rather go this way. And I'm going to give the floor to the next speaker at this point. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u12	Thank you. Mr. Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u13	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am very sorry. I do not want to prolong this discussion much longer, however, I was approached by the mayor of Kácov, Mrs Mgr Soňa Křenová, and I promised her some time ago that I would read her letter here, and I'm used to fulfilling my vows. Don't worry, it won't be long, I don't think I'm gonna last 10 minutes. So the letter from Mayor Kácov: "Dear Member, the Chamber of Deputies will discuss the construction law at third reading, a standard which will have a major impact on the form of the building procedure in the event of approval. It will lead, among other things, to the abolition of several hundred construction offices. As a representative of the municipality mayor of Kácov, the first-type municipality, which does not manage the construction office, I know that this proposed amendment will affect not only our citizens but also our own self-government. I appeal to you with a request to support the small municipalities to which this amendment touches the most when voting. I address you not only on behalf of myself, but also other mayors and mayors from the smaller municipalities of Uhlířskojanovicka and Zruška. These are the mayors and mayors of the following municipalities: the municipalities Petrovice II, the municipality Čestín, the municipality Nepoměřice, the municipality Vavřinec, the municipality Podveky, the municipality Petrolice, the municipality Ledečko, the municipality Petrovice I, the municipality Zdizuby, the municipality Košice, the municipality Úžice, the cities Rataje nad Sázavou, the municipality Horka II, the municipality Církvice and the municipality Vlastajovice. [[Pertoltice?]] [[9.50 hours]] Our citizens have not yet had problems with the lengthy development of the proceedings. We didn't. The building office was within range of them, a distance of 10 kilometers by car, which can be handled even after working hours. Nowadays, a citizen needs to visit the construction office more often than in the past: for the construction of pergola, new garages, reconstruction of the house, etc. Officials from our construction office know the cadastral of municipalities well, they know the territorial plans of individual municipalities, they can decide faster and more flexibly. The mayors of smaller municipalities use frequent consultations with civil servants of these construction offices on their own investment actions, on black buildings or on the grounds of frequent inquiries by citizens on construction sites. If the authorities in the second-type municipalities are cancelled, it will only bring complications to citizens and municipalities. Today, the mayor knows about any planned construction, he can comment on it in time, representatives can decide whether it fits the overall concept of the village. Citizens will have to take vacations to deal with window changes, roof coverings or fences. Citizens will have to take more days of vacation if they issue building permits; One visit to the building office won't solve it. In fact, they will reach 40 kilometers from our village to settle their territorial agreement with the construction of a pergola. Officials in the super office will not have local knowledge, mistakes will occur, somewhere even serious. After the previous amendment to the Construction Act, when the first approval of the construction, even with the construction of a well, must be given by the Department of Regional Development, there are complications. The clerk can't handle it in time, and the citizen has to take a vacation to reach the ORP office at 40 kilometers away. CHKO officials and other protected areas will not have an overview of the planned development projects in protected areas, will not be able to comment on the planned project in time. Dear Member, we would be very happy to have our comments in mind in your vote. Please keep in mind that there is no more centralisation than it already is. Everything is moving away from the countryside, and it is causing our citizens considerable trouble. Thank you in advance for your interest and support. Greetings, Mgr Soňa Křenová, mayor of Kácov city." So many letters from the mayor and I are inclined to take into account all of her comments in our decision-making when approving the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A point of fact, Mr. Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u15	Good morning. I don't like to delay the discussion, just reacting: I own a house in the city in question, which I have there after my great-great-great-grandparents. The nearest Kutná Hora is 20 minutes' drive away. Well, I don't know if it's gonna have that kind of influence if the office's there or not. Of course, I know Mrs. Soňa Křenová very well, because there is a small castle that we are trying to fix together, and the son also set up a foundation fund for this. And the mayor is running for STAN. She might as well turn to me, I'd try to explain it to her. She hasn't turned around, and we know each other well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u16	I have three factual points here. Mr Válek, then Mr Jakob.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I would simply like to dispel the concerns of my colleague Plzák, and I am 100% certain of his house, which he owns from great-great-great-great-great-grandparents, will certainly have no effect, and his descendants will certainly continue to own it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u18	Mr Jakob, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u19	Thank you. Yes, Mayor Kácov is elected STAN, I'm not STAN, I'm Top 09. I am honored that she had the confidence to turn to me, even if she could turn to you, Mr Plzák, through Mr President. Of course, I do not have the slightest reason not to trust her information about driving distances and 16 other colleagues in the area. And I am convinced, as also mayor, even if the larger city, that the mayors know very well when an adjustment can be made, the amendment will affect their citizens. And that's why it weighs on them, and that's why they wrote this letter. Once again, I intercede to take this into account in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u20	Thank you. With the replacement card number 15, Mr Grospič votes and Vice-President Pikal is registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I apologise to my colleagues, who I may have skipped, but I follow up with a similar letter to my colleague Jakob. This is a letter from the mayors of the Němčicka microregion. I know they've turned to other Members from the region, but I've decided to translate it here: "Dear Member, the Chamber of Deputies will soon discuss the construction law in its third reading - a standard that will have a major impact on the form of the building procedure in the event of approval. It will lead, among other things, to the abolition of several hundred construction offices. As representatives of the municipalities, of course, we are concerned about how this will affect our municipalities and, above all, their inhabitants. The abolition of smaller construction offices could mean the need for workers (from) of smaller settlements to travel further than before to process this request. We see this step as a reduction in the availability of services and quality of life in the countryside. According to our information, the cancellation could also concern the construction office in Němčice nad Hanou, which has 14 municipalities in its administrative district." I therefore find it important to me the aspect of reducing the availability of rural services. We're often talking about rural depopulation, we're often talking about service availability here, and this is another service that we're threatening to cancel here, and we're going to reduce the quality of life in the country again. And then we have to ask, why would these people stay there if there isn't even a local meeting? "We therefore turn to you with a question of how you will vote on this matter. Your vote will have a direct impact on the life and comfort of our people. In this context, we would like to ask you not to support the proposal for a construction law, in particular because of the impact of the abolition of building offices on quality of life in the countryside." And so it is signed by the mayors and mayors of Němčice nad Hana, Javorovic, Pavlovic u Kojetina, Moric, Tistina, Serbs, Vrchoslavic, Dobromilic, Bytčice, Nezamyslidic, Pears and Doloplas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u22	I thank you, too, and with priority rights, Minister Zaorálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u23	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, I have decided to respond to something that has been said here during the previous debates. In recent weeks, I have been involved in a debate about the construction law that I was invited to, and it happened to me that I was accused of having a special problem in the case of the construction law. It was called that I was afraid of the unknown, that I was afraid of the unknown, and that I was afraid to step into the unknown. That amused me. This reminded me of Friedrich Nietzsche, who said that a man in his life should walk exactly where he didn't want to go, and that it was worth the most to him. [[10.00 hours]] But I do not know if this recommendation applies in the case of the adoption of laws, because it is quite true that I am actually, in the case of not only this law, but I am really afraid of some amendments, above all, of the step into the unknown, which are actually the amendments. And let me give you an example, because we will also vote on that. Surprisingly, it is not in the original proposal itself, but I would like to refer to the performance that was here, it was probably 14 days ago, sometimes on May 12th, it was colleagues Vymazal and colleague Pikal, who introduced us to four urban artifacts. One of the important needs to be the transfer of scope in the procurement of land-use planning documentation of municipalities and regions into their separate scope. That's exactly the case of the step into the unknown that I'm gonna admit to being scared. I was surprised because it actually came from the opposition that... I was quite focused on the issue here in one of my previous speeches, and it even seemed to me that opposition leaders criticized similar arguments. And now I just have a proposal here that seems to me to be exactly the problem and the step into the unknown that I really am, and I admit that here, I'm afraid. The joke is that we're here at third reading, which means if it's unfinished, of course there's nothing we can do about it. There's just no room for us to discuss it any more and figure out how to fix it or fix it or fix it better. And in fact, one can only say that this is the step into the unknown that we don't even know where it's going to lead us and what it's going to do. I'll tell you exactly what the unfinished business is, but I think it's pretty serious. Here in one of those things, and the one I'm talking about right now, it's kind of about this. Many of you are representatives of smaller municipalities, which is why it is interesting for you to realize that the proposal does not address - it does not address - the financing of a separate area of area planning. It is probably pointless to say this here, but it may be worth recalling that funding for a separate area of territorial planning is something other than financing the exercise of delegated powers. The funding is just, as you know, going on differently, and the performance really isn't the same. This also has significant implications in terms of the possible distribution of public funds. I know that there are big cities that have bigger budgets, and for them there is probably no problem putting aside one two investments and covering the costs of making planning documentation. But with a small community, it will always mean stopping all, all financial flows. And the question of how to get state resources to these municipalities does not solve that amendment. Before we approve, I think we should know the answer. It is not well enough to approve such a proposal and to think that this will be dealt with some other time. It seems to me that such a step into the unknown simply cannot get away with making laws. And the proposal is also insufficient in terms of procurement competence, and it should be noted that competence cannot be imported subsequently methodically. And since the whole planning does not go into its own remit, some competences in the proposal are unclear. It is, for example, a question of who will report on the implementation of a territorial plan or principles of territorial development, whether it is a government or a government. The proposal didn't deal with it at all, so they're just gonna have doubts. I think that approving a proposal, such as an amendment, and not knowing the answers to those questions, I think that is not a normal process. And we're here at third reading, if we don't know it, we're not gonna figure it out. That's the third reading only. This isn't the only example, and I'm giving you one moment that seems important to me that it doesn't deal with funding for a separate area of land planning. that it is not obvious at all and that it is not clear at all. If we're gonna take it this way today, I think we're giving reason to amend the law right after the election. I thought it was our job to sort this out when we wanted to design something like this, not leave it for the next time. I think that's a bad way to make a building bill. And I'm surprised that... I know that, in this context, an expert group was created at the Ministry of Regional Development, so now I don't really understand why, with such a vehemence for this more than a controversial point, the opposition has been enthusiastic, which has otherwise given a number of reasons that this kind of work is wrong, which I mean that the debate that we are having here is not pushing us very much. And it seems to me that there are other problems that I feel that we are unable to solve today. Not at this stage. And I really confirm what I was accused of being afraid of being unknown. That's what I'm really afraid of in lawmaking, and I think that fear is justified. On the other hand, at least I'll admit that I'm not going to stand up against the four city artifacts and priori and all equally rejecting them. For example, the amendment under number 7619, in the voting procedure is marked K2, returns to the amendment of the construction law the issue that fell out of me for unknown reasons in the comment procedure, and that is that it is possible simply to make an exception. I don't know, you've got an old house or some medieval house, so you don't have to do a door six feet tall or anything like that. This possibility of exceptions to monuments actually returns not only to cultural monuments, but also to conservation reserves and conservation zones. So, of course, that's a proposal that's okay. I like to raise my hand for him. However, I believe that even in the debate, as well as in the amendments that we will approve today, there are hidden things that have problems within them that we will not miss, which await us and which will have to be dealt with if the law passes, and I think that is not good. So be careful how you vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u24	Thank you to the Minister and the debate is attended by Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u25	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I think I'd like to respond a little to the previous speakers. I don't know if there was a motion to return to second reading, but I think he did. And that is actually the cure for what Minister Zaorálek mentioned here - to return it to second reading and to achieve some form that will at least be acceptable to everyone. Then I would like to point out that my colleagues spoke before me about concerns about their communities, about their construction offices. There's usually talk of people who will continue to have it in office. Of course, that's wrong, but it's true the other way around. The person who makes the decisions will continue to have it to the place that he decides. And that will also have the very negative consequences, because anyone who has any real estate or lives somewhere can be influenced by the distance from where they decide to expand. [[10.10 hours]] I would like to mention a few more points, really just a few points. Firstly, the law really arose and arose - or the proposal was made, the proposal that such a special coalition is about to approve here - was created under very non-transparable conditions, it was created in practice from the contract of the Chamber of Commerce, which cost CZK 10 million, which was created in a law firm. In a law firm which, of the nature of the case - and no one can blame the law firm - most often defends the interests of the builders. And there are also ministers here - and they are right - that this law threatens conservation care, threatens the environment, threatens people's health and threatens the system's functioning at all, as construction is approved in our country, all by incrimination at speed. But if he makes his decisions fast, but it doesn't help anybody, and it just goes to court. And that's what I'm saying is that it's gonna happen because when it's bad decisions, it's just gonna stick around because it's all gonna go to court. The integration of conservation care into the building offices is being prepared here, which is very unreasonable, because conservation care as well as nature protection is very important and there is a real risk that the surrounding area, the conservation reserves will be destroyed by bad decisions and that will damage what people go to see, what is nice in our country, and what we know is that we are supposed to protect. For another, we should have consulted this proposal, at least in my opinion, with UNESCO. I fear that this has not happened at all, even because the law here is approved by such a trick that it has changed in the course of the hearing and then returns as an amendment. So I have a question for the Minister about the position of UNESCO, which is a mark that applies to people from abroad to come and see us, so what is the position of UNESCO on this proposal. I very much warn against the fact that the protection zones that are used to regulate the building industry, that their protection is shrinking, and I very much warn against subjecting monument care to the building authorities, because there is not only a person who is engaged in monuments or is engaged in nature conservation professionally all the time, of course he has much better knowledge and his decision-making will be much more professional than the decision-making of a person who sometimes decides something and sometimes something else. So I am convinced that this law will not meet the ambition it takes, unfortunately for a few years to ensure bad decisions, we will be very, very difficult to bring back, and many decisions that will fall will be found in the courts, and unfortunately many decisions that will be applied will be irreversible and will damage conservation care, damage the environment, damage our country, and damage people's confidence in the state's defence of the interests that it defends in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u26	Thank you. With the club's opinion, Mr. Výborný will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present here the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP on the construction law under discussion. I will not repeat what has been said here and from my mouth repeatedly during these discussions, but I would like to point out some things, and I would also like to propose one accompanying resolution. dáma and gentlemen, it must be noted that the KDU-ČSL will not support the draft building law if it is voted out in the version as the quasi-government amendment tabled by Mr Kolovratník is being pushed here at the moment. Otherwise, it must be said quite openly, it is a proposal that pushes the coalition of the construction law, which is a coalition of the movement YES, SPD and KSČM. We in the coalition of the COO and the coalition of the Pirates and STAN didn't just come up with the criticism, but we came up with a constructive proposal. You have here a comprehensive amendment which has the same objective as the proposal that is here at the moment - as colleagues have already said before me - in a very strange way. I think it is necessary to say this again completely clearly and clearly as was the case. The government prepared a new building law, which was very difficult to deal with in the framework of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and at the Legislative Council of the Government. The result was, in the end, a complex hybrid compromise that came to the Chamber of Deputies. However, at that point, the Ministry of Regional Development and the Minister had to know that here in the House they would try to bring the whole thing back to the beginning in a way that would bypass the government's factual decision. Well, the result here is on the table in the form of the quasi-government amendment by Mr Kolovratník, who brings it all back to the beginning without the fact that there would be clear positions not only by UNESCO, as my colleague Čižinský said before me, but also by all the other institutions. By the way, it bubbled up beautifully the moment we heard the clear position of Minister Zaorálek, colleagues from the Government of Minister Dostálová. It was obvious that the results that are here at the moment are not discussed even within the departments of this government. I am convinced that the goal - simple, fast, transparent, cheap and construction worker, the citizen close to the friendly construction process - is the same. I just believe that the path chosen at this moment by Minister Dostálová and the coalition, which I have clearly defined and described here, means that we will put the building process in the hands of the state, is more the way to hell than to some bright tomorrow. In fact, this means not only building a new large super office, but it also means that it can stop construction proceedings for citizens, for builders, in the order of months, perhaps even a few years. Try answering the question - and I believe that there are many mayors, mayors or mayors of the current and past - here too in the ANO movement - try answering the question of when the situation for a citizen has improved at the moment when something has been transferred from the jurisdiction of municipalities, cities under the jurisdiction of the state. I'd like to hear the answer if we have any example where something started to work better, to work faster, to work cheaper, to a citizen friendlyly, when he took something under his shoulders, under his wing, state. I'm convinced we can't find a positive answer. It just doesn't work like that. I think that the decentralization of the administration should be maintained in this case. She doesn't go or she doesn't have to go at the expense of the speed of the building process. The amendment, which you will also vote on, which we have put together with colleagues Kupka, Bartoš and others, clearly sets out mechanisms where the construction process will be on average 90 days, for those simpler constructions 60, for the more complex maybe 120 days. But we will meet the goal, which we all have exactly the same as we are here, to get out of the tragic numbers of the speed of construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. We just think that there is no need to completely eliminate here, to destroy what has worked here for years flying, de facto since the 19th century, that there is no need to go through absolute decentralization. And I agree that one-headed construction agencies, I guess there's no dispute about that, they don't make sense, they're not effective, they're not representative. However, it does not mean that if we take everything and transfer it to the state, we will create 13,000 new tables under the service law - I wonder, until now, I have not heard the Prime Minister's reaction, if he even knows and has any idea what awaits him with this kind of forced building law. So let us not really succumb to the illusion of helping something. On the contrary, there is a de facto collapse of the building process. [[10.20 hours]] Therefore, KDU-ČSL will not support this version, which is proposed here at this time by Mr Kolovratník. We are prepared to support a number of amendments that are based not only on our opposition working group, but also on a number of amendments tabled by Members of other MPs here, and which make sense to us, are in favour of the key objectives that I was talking about earlier. In conclusion, let me remind you of what Minister Zaorálek has actually described in a completely pregnant way here. The question of spatial planning, which, if the amendment by Mr Kolovratník O7 through to 34 passes, if I am not mistaken, means transferring spatial planning to the separate remit of municipalities and cities. It's a proposal that actually says A and doesn't say B, and now I speak mainly for small towns and cities, because even the mayors have turned to me and turned to me, but all I have to do is look at the opinion of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, just look at the opinion of the Association of Local Authorities. It's clearly written there. We are going to take a step here and we are not giving confidence to municipalities, especially small municipalities and cities, that the state will be able to help them finance the development of territorial plans. It is a great irresponsibleness, because it can cripple investment especially in small municipalities. I think we're actually going the way we can't guarantee, and even though the Minister is talking about a grant title, I don't know if this is the reasonable way. Despite the grant title, this means that 10 per cent of the municipalities will reach and 90 per cent will not reach. And they're supposed to fuck with their feet? Or what's that supposed to mean? How do we want to ensure that the responsibilities or tasks financed by the state at this time are transferred to municipalities and cities? For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose this accompanying resolution, and I will then ask you to vote on it in the case - please, rapporteur - if Amendment O7 through to 34 passes. If it fails, then there will be no sense in voting on the accompanying resolution. The accompanying resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Ministry of Regional Development to resolve, in the context of the intention to transfer the procurement of land-planning documents into the separate remit of municipalities, the effectiveness of this State financing change so as not to impair the position of particularly small municipalities and cities which do not have an interest in their own procurement of land-planning documents." So much for the motion for a resolution, which should be voted as accompanying at the end. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, as the majority of the coalition of the construction law is formed here, which was created in a very, very dubious way, and it is not a solution that would go in favour of the builders, it is not at all a solution that would go in favour of public administration, municipalities and cities, KDU-ČSL will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u28	Please, Mrs Kovářová, for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my opinion on this amendment for the Club Mayors and Independents. I am convinced that, as we could describe the discussion of this amendment, the result could be described as follows: We meant it well, but it turned out as usual. This applies more to the amendment to the Construction Act than in any other area. At the same time, the opportunity to come up with a proposal with broad support was quite exceptional. With regard to the construction law, we may all agree that it should be easier, not to impose unnecessary bureaucratic barriers on small and large builders, be friendly to small builders, make management simple, available to them, do not increase unnecessary costs, also give clear rules to developers, guarantee them equal treatment and predictable time periods, and also give municipalities sufficient powers to adequately correct their development and to be able to regulate it effectively. And so we could continue. This was promised by the government that it would be fulfilled. And now, just before the vote here in the House, it looks exactly the opposite. Intentions, they were great, but the result - poverty with need. I will leave aside the fact that the building law, referred to as the priority of the years, is to be approved in five minutes of twelve, i.e. at the end of the term of office. However, I cannot leave aside that the important last-minute proposal of the government Members has literally spewed up various amendments, which further aggravate the already bad solutions in the draft itself. Indeed, there are many problems. I'd like to draw attention to at least two of the most prominent. The version submitted by the government already assumes the interference, centralization and transfer of construction offices from the jurisdiction of municipalities to mixed administration, into a so-called hybrid model that is unprecedented in the Czech Republic. Thus, there has been a change, because the proposals of the government's bureaucratic massacre are still improving in quotation marks by transferring to purely state administration and by disturbing hundreds of individual construction offices in the regions. The effectiveness of some of these changes should occur from 1. 1. 2022, about six months later, we still don't know when and whether the amendment will actually be adopted. In the case of the transfer of the whole system from the jurisdiction of municipalities to state administration it is impossible, in the case of further interference and total centralization absolutely absurd. We often hear a few terms, such as centralization, decentralization, state administration, self-government, in connection with the negotiation of the amendment to the construction law. For many of us it is clear, for many it can be incomprehensible. But everyone will understand the specific consequences, everyone will understand the problems of centralization mania. A small builder will often be 50 kilometers away from the office. Mega Offices will be confronted with the need to know the local, usually very specific situation. They will suffer from a lack of personnel because the idea that experienced officials from the municipalities will move into them in quotation marks simply cannot work, just because the municipal authorities will be happy to employ many of them in other posts. Yes, we're against one big mega-construction office. We are opposed to more than 400 construction offices being destroyed. We don't want the service to distance itself from the citizens. And, of course, qualified places in smaller towns and municipalities will also disappear. I would like to ask myself where construction offices will be abolished. Who's gonna decide that? Under the law, the Supreme Building Authority will decide. Based on what rules? Do we know or don't we? Do we know where we're going to move the clerks? The Minister spoke here last time about the fact that she had already spoken to 189 construction offices or construction offices or mayors, municipalities. She has spoken recently, but the law is under discussion, or has been in existence for two years. Isn't it a little late? Because, as a survey was conducted between the mayors, a large part of them certainly do not plan to leave buildings for the emerging authorities. [[10.30 hours]] And I am not talking about how 13,000 officials are to be transferred. We've been hearing this number from Madam Secretary all along: 13,000. And recently, when it started to talk - and the opposition complained that if you transferred them to the state service, you would increase their pay grade, so it would mean a lot of costs - and the Minister suddenly started talking about saving jobs. Well, he's gonna have to, because only 40 percent of the officials want to go to the new building offices. I think that other, very serious moments in the design of the amendment to the construction law are costs. It is said that such a shift could cost more than CZK 20 billion one time, at a time when the state budget counts each crown and will be asked whether it will have to secure the mandatorial expenses in the next period. That's why I'm asking if it's necessary. We believe that a major improvement in the culture of building authorisation can be achieved even if the existing system is maintained, by implementing the following measures, which can also be achieved by simply amending existing legislation. Such a measure could have four basic pillars. Territorial planning as a basic strategic tool for coordinated development, transparent and predictable authorisation processes, independent and professional protection of public interest and, of course, digitalisation of the building and planning agenda would be enough, and it is already beginning to jump, because the law has already been adopted in the House. We must also state that the problems of the existing building authorisation system are not primarily due to the bad construction law. Rather, there is a lack of consistency in its respect and problematic behaviour of individual actors, whether designers, state authorities, builders and other parties to the proceedings. It must be made clear that no new law or centralisation of the building office in itself can, moreover, ensure the most important thing, that really qualified and independent experts work on the offices. It is therefore necessary to focus on setting up the system as such in order to ensure a fair and motivating financial evaluation of employees, to create a quality working environment and, of course, to ensure continuous methodological support, especially from the Ministry of Regional Development. The Minister warned me several times about what I knew that, of course, the methodology was run by the regions. But the Ministry of Regional Development -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u30	Madame, you've finished 10 minutes, will you continue as in the second performance? [[Mrs Kovářová answers to the President off the microphone.]] Okay. I've taken over the proceedings, I don't know that's the committee's position. [[Mrs Kovářová: Yes, thank you.]] Although your club's position has been presented and well. Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u31	Thank you. Ensure continuous support, in short and well by the Ministry of Regional Development, and create conditions for transparent and predictable processes, especially by digitising them, as I have already mentioned here. As a club of Mayors and Independents, we have joined the amendment of other MPs - Pirates, ODS, TOP-09 and KDU-ČSL - and I would ask you to support the amendment by which we refer to Mr Kupka's parliamentary proposal, which retains the delegated powers of construction agencies in municipalities, cities and regions. Furthermore, for the reasons that I have stated that we are nearing the end of the year and the planned change and effectiveness should be from 1. 1. 2022, so I would ask you to support at least one amendment that moves this efficiency forward, and also this - because it is assumed that Mr Kolovratník's amendment, where it is not clear where the construction authorities will be preserved - so in our amendment we put forward rules where these authorities could be preserved, so as to make it clear, because otherwise we are going to... we are walking into a great unknown abyss. Finally, I remember the Minister here talking about the social consensus of this law, this proposal for an amendment to the construction law. I have a slightly different impression because this proposal is not supported by municipalities, towns, regions, Associations of Local Authorities, Association of Towns and Municipalities, Association of Regionals, Supreme Administrative Court. So what I'm asking is, where's the social consensus? On the one hand, it is the agreement between MMR and developers. I'm just saying I have nothing against developers. Therefore, if the amendments I have mentioned fail, this non-constructional law will certainly not support our club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u32	Thank you, Mrs Kovářová, and I have no further application. My colleague Kupka is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have already spoken here on the subject of the construction law. Now, before the vote, I would like to sum up the most serious points and try to pull back on the emergency brake. As it was said, by approving the construction law, we would really come close to falling into the abyss, to the abyss associated with a number of serious risks. Madam Secretary - this was not the case with many laws - issued such a fine book: Myths about the new construction law. [[He's pointing.]] Here's a picture where a gentleman says he loves it when they start to germinate in the fields of spring. That sounds bizarre to me. I don't know if the secretary identifies with this drawing, and if he also loves it when they start to germinate in the fields of spring. But I would like to focus your attention on the book, because in truth, the most serious problems of the law are exactly what it names. He says they're myths, but he doesn't actually disprove them, on the contrary, he's actually telling them the truth. The first myth will occur around the construction offices. Unfortunately, that's not a myth. This is a real risk, and a number of colleagues have spoken here in the previous debate, who have clearly demonstrated that this is a real risk. This law creates a really large mega-construction office, which should be used by the state to recruit 13,000 or more than 13,000 officials. That's a reality no one can deny. And at the same time, we know the new officials aren't here. It means convincing all the existing ones to go to the new mega-construction office. And yet we know - and here I stress what has been said - that only 40 percent of those addressed now, and only those who work at the construction offices themselves, not the authorities concerned, in other trade unions, so everyone tells you only 40 percent would go to the new construction office. Well, that's a perfectly clear signal that the collapse of the building authorities is imminent, and instead, to speed up and simplify the construction process, there is actually a possibility of a real threat, a collapse of the building proceedings. And the fact that the funds that the state will have at its disposal that could travel to the Czech Republic through subsidies will simply not be exhausted because they will not be issued a building permit, even for several years. [[10.40 hours]] And it is not only the opposition's position, it has also been clearly shown in many cases by the Minister of Culture in previous speeches, and it has also been shown by the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, which has not been overcome. I understand the Minister doesn't like it, because she's not into it at all, but I can't put this analysis of the Ministry of the Interior as an important resort behind her. All the key points that are named there need to be remembered today. By voting on the building bill, we would really take serious risks. We hear it from a number of mayors - nowhere is guaranteed to provide existing premises, nowhere is guaranteed that the Minister will have officials for the new mega-construction office. It is unlikely, or better said, that it will not be available to its successor or successor in the office of the Minister for Regional Development. These are all very serious arguments. Myth number 2 is going to create a useless mega-office, and it's going to cost a lot of money. I wouldn't call it better. And that's exactly what's happening in the Home Office's analysis. It's just gonna be a useless mega-office. Today we see what the fate of the Sports Agency is. It was also said that we urgently needed this, that the Czech Republic would not move on without it. Since then, one problem at a time, and because we're unlearned, as Albert Einstein said, if you assume that when it doesn't work out, but you keep saying it, it's just crazy. And this I'm afraid is another example of relying on the creation of centralized new offices is simply not just a bet on uncertainty, it's a very serious risk that has been repeatedly proven, and I don't understand why, despite all the reservations, despite all the warnings made by the Minister, he's headed head-on into the wall. Another myth, however, has not been invented here, says: only digitalization would suffice for faster building authorisation. Clearly, only digitalization is not enough. We also proposed a solution that included a wide range of advantages of relatively extensive recodification, but it did not change the most serious and risky, it did not bring about the creation of a mega-building office. It was a reasonable journey without unnecessary risks, but with clear advantages. I am sorry that despite all the factual arguments put on the table here, we still have an ideological chimera standing before us that the mega-building central office will save the Czech Republic and save the building process in our country. It doesn't, it threatens them in the end, and the reasons are there, they're going to sound and they're going to sound and they're going to sound again. Myth number 4 - the availability of building offices will be reduced and removed from the citizen. Well, there is no dispute about that either, because the proposal that we will be voting here as a comprehensive amendment, as a new operator of the Economic Committee, does not guarantee that construction agencies will be created as a detached workplace of a new mega-construction office in places where it is needed. There's no such thing. Of course, I think it is now a general consensus - after all, it was also mentioned in the opinion of the Association of Local Authorities - that the holding of single-headed construction offices is not sustainable, that it is not appropriate that an adjustment must be made here, which would mean strengthening the stability of the authorities and better performance, but, on the other hand, here, in the form of a proposal, we see the deflection of the pendulum into the second turning point. There's nothing to guarantee here, and of course it means delaying the construction authorities to people. Of course, digitization will bring a simpler form of administration of individual submissions, but in many cases, especially for small builders who want to reconstruct their house or want to do a similar intervention, the opportunity to go to the construction officer and deal with it, how to do it best, is precisely the service that the state is supposed to guarantee, because precisely for this type of service people pay with their taxes. Please consider these factual arguments, consider these reasons that we really have here on the table, and we will vote on them today. Finally, because the vote is really coming, on a few brief points. On the one hand, there is a proposal that will cost a lot of money, it is highly uncertain, it represents many risks, it generates centralisation of the state administration as a repeatedly unsuccessful step, and in addition, we have a solution that has a number of proven advantages - on which there is agreement in a large part of the Chamber of Deputies - and solves and bets on the current model, with the fact that it cultivates it and improves that it looks at those processes and is based on good experience. This is the choice that stands before us today. You can either take the risk path, fall into the abyss, endanger building procedures, or sensible adjustments without creating mega-building offices, without further strengthening state bureaucracy, but with a clear emphasis on material acceleration and improvement of building legislation. This is a topic that we are going to address today, and I strongly hope that you will take this into account without unnecessary ideological burdens, and that you will look at it, for example, through the experience of practices that sit here in the House as mayors, for example as investors, as entrepreneurs, they are struggling with the state administration on a daily basis and have a real experience. They built something, something behind it. Mega Office of more than 13 000 officials is not a good way for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u34	Thank you, Mr Kupek. I am of the opinion that I have no application for a debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. So we have the possibility of closing words. Am I asking the Minister, Mr Kolovratník and Mr Bartoš as rapporteurs, or anyone who would replace Mr Feri as a fellow Member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee? Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u35	Mr President, colleagues, thank you very much again, thank you for the debate. A lot of topics have been repeated here, but I consider that I have always responded to all the speeches in this debate. So let me do so today. Mr Bartoš, Mr Kupka here, of course, says that there will be a new office. I would just like to point out that the emergence of the highest building office has both the proposal and the opposition. That means, we're not different here, we're really only different at one point, and that's where the first-instance authorities are going to be, and from the perspective of the government, it's crucial to ensure compliance with deadlines. Therefore, compliance with the deadlines was well resolved either in the government bill - the government bill was created as a compromise agreement with the Union of Towns and Municipalities - or it is resolved entirely, as confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, in the Economic Committee's proposal, because this proposal also addresses systemic bias. Mr. Černohorský here has been debating the reform of archaeology. Nothing against the reform of archaeology, no way, but it's an attachment to the law. This means that, even after the debate with the Ministry of Culture, which gave a dissenting opinion, we think that this should be dealt with separately, not as part of the construction law. You were also talking about expropriation. I'd like to confirm here, we're preparing a new expropriation law. It is currently after inter-ministerial commentary proceedings as a substantive intention of the law and is now under discussion by the Legislative Council of the Government. Therefore your attention please (?) To this law, where we could tune all these things up. [[10.50 hours]] Mr. Jakob quoted tady a letter from the village of Kácov. Again, I would like to say that the opposition proposal from the workshop of opposition Members Mr Bartoš, Kupka, Výborný and so on is counting on the reduction of the construction offices. We have the same principle, whether it is in the government's proposal, or in the economic committee's proposal, or even in the opposition, that the decision, where the construction offices or the local offices of the construction office will be, is given by § 330. At least one of the four criteria must be met, and that is either the number of people - four people, or 10,000 inhabitants, or the availability at a certain distance of kilometers and the number of operations. These criteria were agreed with the Ministry of the Interior. At the same time, availability is being discussed here. Of course, since we all agree here across the political spectrum that the alpha omega and the new building law are digitalization, of course, it's a little strange to debate accessibility on the same scale as digitalization, because we really aim at making sure that every citizen or builder who wants to deal with something with the building office can handle it from the safety of his home. I only have to give Minister Zaorálek here his consent to what he said. We actually set up a task force for spatial planning. We were convinced that this was the right way to go. It is the right way to put spatial planning within a separate remit, but that path really needs to be properly swept - as Minister Zaorálek said exactly - and prepared. The proposal that you have today as an amendment to territorial planning was prepared by a group of major cities under the direction of Prague. The Ministry of Regional Development, all the ministries, including the Ministry of Culture, which were present at those meetings, the Government Legislative Council and the Supreme Administrative Court drew attention to the issue of the amendment that the financing of small municipalities is not ensured and so on. In the context of this, since I have received the opinion of the Union of Cities and Communities as well as the position of the Ministry of Regional Development, this amendment will be negative. Mr Čižinský dealt with UNESCO. I must say that we do not have a separate position of UNESCO, but we have exchanged several letters, because UNESCO wanted to be assured about the protection of public interests. Again, we have done all these monuments in close cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, and it is agreed that where UNESCO monuments, national cultural monuments and reservations are concerned, the resemblance of today will remain, including a binding opinion. We also discussed that the resorts - Mr. Výborný here said that even the resorts did not agree to the construction. That's not true, please. All the departments agreed, the government got away with it unanimously. It is true, however, that the ministries give dissenting opinions with the partial amendments, and there I have to agree with that, and I, too, will hold the dissenting opinions of those ministries. That means, even my opinion on this will be negative if there is a dissenting position of the resort. I must agree with Mrs Kovářová at some moments. She said the predictability of deadlines should be crucial. I have to confirm it here, because I'm being written by young families that they need to plan their mortgage, that the predictability of deadlines is crucial. But in order to be able to meet the deadlines, it is really only a government bill or a comprehensive amendment to the Economic Committee that can be supported from this point of view. Again, it is necessary to recall in this context that it is the competence of the State. The construction procedure is the competence of the State. This means that the state pays for it with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u36	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. We are before the vote, and the final word is the Minister and the rapporteurs. Please pay enough attention to this matter. We've been doing this for a long time, and we want the law to be passed. Not yet, Madam Secretary. I'm serious, or I'm gonna dictate to the protocol those who aren't sitting in their seats and noisy. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u37	Thank you. The state pays about four billion a year for this for the municipalities. Once again we come to the fact that it is not clear where construction offices can be in the future or the territorial workplace of the construction office. I repeat again, it's not true. This is due to § 330 including the criteria. At the same time, a survey among officials was mentioned. Indeed - and to my sweet surprise - 40 percent of the officials said that they would cross the country at the very first good. Roughly over 20% of officials said they'd like to stay in the village. In the context of changing processes - absolutely fundamentally because we set appeal principles, there will only be one management, and so on - so it must be realized that around 40 percent of the agenda will go down. That means, the debate about not having to hit it with the number of officials we're gonna have at our disposal really isn't appropriate. Mrs Kovářová, through you, Mr President, she spoke of independent experts. I fully underline that this is really very necessary. That is why we are trying to depoliticize the building system, depoliticize it from both self-government and government, that is, from ministries. That is why the Supreme Building Office is created - and I say again - in all the proposals. Then the Member said that the effectiveness will be from 1. 1. 2022. I would just like to point out that this amendment has not been tabled at all. He was debating the committees, but he wasn't served in the end. So the efficiency is from 1. 7. 2023, when, in fact, there should be a transition of officials. In fact, I also answered most of Mr Kupka's questions or suggestions, which he quoted here from a brochure which, of course, was given various such jokes from a well-known author when we deal with myths in the construction law. I would just like to touch on the analysis of the Ministry of the Interior, because the very high number that the opposition, which was 23 billion, is sometimes based on here, is given if we were to build all the new construction offices on a green meadow. My friends, I think we have 1,300 construction offices, and there will really be no construction on the green meadow. It's not gonna happen. On the contrary, the analysis shows that models in the version of the opposition will cost around 3.8 billion and in the version of the Committee on Economic Affairs 4.1 billion, but also by counting the increase in the grade for civil servants, so that we can actually ensure that we are highly qualified. I am sure that all of us sitting here agree that a change in building law is absolutely necessary and is necessary quickly. The Czech Republic regularly falls in the World Bank's assessment of the length of approval of new buildings. We all want apartment buildings, highways, bypasses, but even family houses. In short, we all want construction to start on all levels. That is why I believe that there is a common consensus on the need for a new construction law. And let's see how it really is. Our citizens, representatives of the professional association and many others don't give a damn whether they get a stamp from a community official or a civil servant. They want to have it fast and they want to have predictable deadlines. In the context of today's debate, I would like to ask you once again to support the new construction law. We all know that another amendment or separate digitization would not correct the current situation. If we really want to move forward and speed up construction, we need to change the rules strictly, and it's high time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u38	I thank the Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, for the final vote. Before I give the final floor to the rapporteur, Mr Kolovratník, I state my apologies to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from Adam Vojtěch for working reasons until the end of the day, Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková, also for working reasons for the whole day, and Jana Levová for health reasons, also for the whole day. Now the final word of the rapporteur of Mr Kolovratník. The rapporteur of the Public Administration Committee Ivan Bartoš may prepare himself. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u39	Thank you. I'll be very brief. As rapporteur, I will just recapitulate that this law, this amendment, the government proposal - and this may make it easier - has been delivered to the House on 9/11. So I hope that in the free reminiscence of Martin Kupka in connection with that date, what is predicted or what colleagues from the opposition are worried about and that this date is only symbolic. [[11.00 hours]] What is important is that we started discussing it on November 5th and you know that we agreed - I think it was a good helpful step between the two camps - on the fact that the deadlines were very long. We had a period of 100 days to discuss the committees before the second reading, we proceeded really slowly during the winter and spring months, and the key moment was February 12, when the economic committee issued a comprehensive amendment, led by a group of Members under my name, the press 1008/7, for which we then began to prepare further amendments. While I was going through them, we are about 95 voting steps ahead of us in a few moments, and we agree on a number of points, in a number of partial amendments. Many of them are heading towards accelerating the process of issuing territorial plans, planning documentation, shortening or setting fixed deadlines, simplifying the process. I'm sure partial matches are good. The truth is that disagreement is crucial, on the fundamental, on the institutional change. I think it would be useless to repeat the arguments, to go back to them again. In defending the press 1008/7, the whole philosophy, I was mainly based on the fact that the opposing proposal of the group of Members with Martin Kupka led when he was judged by Pavel Černý, lawyer Frank Bold, said the elements we are talking about and with which we count, the elements of integration, the preservation of unification of all procedures, that they would be problematic here, if not impossible. That is why we believe in the road that the Minister spoke of. Perhaps you will forgive me, although I am in the role of rapporteur, one more sentence on the philosophy of territorial planning autonomously. From the beginning, since November, I have said here that I want to fight for the issue of building permits to be technical, fast, rapid, professional, but, on the other hand, to strengthen the principle of subsidiarity, the decision-making from below that municipalities and regions should be able to create territorial plans themselves, i.e. not to be made by an official, one who is authorized, but to make decisions that can often be courageous, political, at the level of self-government, so that they can actually be carried out by self-government. In one comment I noticed a nice analogy that the construction law certainly has flies, it is not perfect. Sometimes they're worlds that just can't be brought together so that everyone's happy, but that it simply outweighs the benefits, the great benefits I trust, and that the flies are so small that we can sort them out in some way. The last sentence in my performance. Mr. Výborný spoke about the coalition of the construction law, so I want to thank him for that. I like to be proud to lead the coalition of the construction law. I'll be optimistic when I vote. I'm just asking you, co-workers, colleagues, to be careful and considerate. I believe I won't make any mistakes in the procedure. Like I said, we have 95 voting steps ahead. We have also agreed with colleagues from the opposition on a number of changes in order against what has been proposed from the Guarantee Economic Committee, I will say in that sense or in an attempt to meet colleagues, that certain opposition proposals which are contrary to non-voting with others to be voted first. When we are in a detailed debate, you, as rapporteur, will be acquainted in detail with the changes - four changes - and if there is no objection, we could vote in an amended version against the original proposal from the Economic Committee, but I will say that in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u40	Thank you, rapporteur. Bartoš's colleague isn't here, so he can't express himself as rapporteur in the final word. My colleague Feri isn't here either, so we have no opinions. In that case, we will continue, and I will call on the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the way in which we are negotiating and the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u41	So, the debate, Mr President, has been merged into both prints.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u42	Just a moment, rapporteur. With the priority right of the Vice-President of the ODS, in agreement with the President, Zbyněk Stanjura, the club's position before the vote. As my colleague Kolovratník signaled, my colleague Kupka will talk about it, about the procedure. Please, Mr. Kupka. I would like to inform the MPs that this is a speech before the vote on the procedure for voting. My colleague Kupka has the floor once the situation in the House has calmed down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u43	First comment on the procedure. We found a match here to give them the space of opposing proposals, but the opponents, which are heading in the same direction, which logically, when one is accepted, cannot be accepted by the other. Here we consider it important that there is really a vote on both of them in the Chamber of Deputies. Just a brief comment for the ODS club on the speech of the Minister and on what was said from the mouth of Mr Kolovratník. Well, this comparison to the terrorist attack on building law in the Czech Republic with the symbolism of 9/11 is really significant in this case. This really can result in an exaggeration of the terrorist attack on building law and the negotiation of construction projects in the Czech Republic. Yes, we really agree on some things. We also want the construction process in the Czech Republic to take place quickly, predictablely, clearly, so that it can be used to manage digital means, but at the same time not to distance itself from people, so that there is always an opportunity for a small builder to come and consult with a competent official. And that's not what the new mega-construction office looks like. Yes, we agree that the Supreme Building Office will be created, which will actually be transformed by the current section of the Ministry of Regional Development. This shouldn't mean any increase in civil servants. We agree that a special construction office is to be created. We're talking about tens at most here, but there are thousands or more than 13,000 officials who would now be transferred to the Civil Service Act regime. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity when the Prime Minister is here, because he has repeatedly shown that he will not allow the number of officials under the Civil Service Act to increase by even one person in the Czech Republic. Here - and it is conclusive - the Czech Republic will have a new mega-construction office with more than 13,000 new officials under the Civil Service Act. That's it, and there's no denying it. Will there be more than 13,000 of them, because that is the number they require - and so there will be 12,000 of them? - but in any case, it is a huge number that will burden the Czech public administration and bring further bureaucracy. Please, we will vote on this in the next few minutes and consider it. Instead of promising acceleration, there is really a threat to the halt of construction proceedings in the Czech Republic. We don't want Otesánek in the form of a new construction office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-001-999.u44	Thank you. Before we go into the procedure and invite the rapporteurs, I note that we are ending the merged debate on press 1008 and 1009 and are going back to discussing the procedural law, the construction law itself, according to the press 1008.
