ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u1	1. National Recovery Plan We interrupted the discussion of this point on 15 April of this year. The general and detailed debate has been closed, the motions for resolutions have been tabled. Please take the position at the rapporteur's table as Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Industry and Trade and Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček, Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, but I do not have it here... and rapporteur of this item, Mr František Kopřiva. I will ask Mr František Kopřiva to introduce us to the next procedure, and I will ask for peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we are in a bit of a procedural situation because there was actually a break here after the close of a detailed debate just before the vote, only that we were reading the resolution with our colleagues when the National Recovery Plan was in the preparation phase, and it is already passé, the points, so, of course, we do not want to vote on them. However, the National Recovery Plan has in the meantime been approved by the Government for CZK 200 billion, and we consider at least fair that it is possible for colleagues to be able to perform, not only me and the Minister, but also others to express themselves, so I would need to open up a detailed debate so that I can withdraw the resolution I was reading last time. And then here we have prepared another, more concise resolution with colleagues, which I would like to read in a detailed debate. So I'd like to ask the Minister if he would formally open the debate? In that there's resistance from the club YES. So I will take advantage of the fact that I have the floor, and I will briefly comment on this as the caller of this extraordinary meeting. First of all, I would like to thank the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the communication she had with us, and for the debate that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček had with us here last time. I would just like to remind you that last time my colleagues and I wanted to give the government legitimacy to hand over the National Recovery Plan to the European Commission with a slight delay. We talked there about the order for a few weeks and we were devastated by the reaction that it was against the interests of the Czech Republic that we would lose on it. We just wanted the government to have the opportunity to deal with the comments. And I am glad that the government, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade, finally settled those comments, and that recovery plan was submitted with a slight delay, but in this case I was in favour of rather settling comments, so that the government would give up some comprehensive version of the deal and not some semi-finished product. So in this, I would like to appreciate the government's actions, which, unlike some clubs in this Chamber of Deputies, took its time to settle the comments. Thank you very much for the promise we have received from Minister Havlíček that the landscape measures for water retention, but also for other purposes, will be less invasive, that it will not be the concrete for any construction of water reservoirs extensive, but will rather remain with those measures that less interfere with the landscape and are more natural, such as the construction of wetlands, pools and so on. That's what I think is positive, and I'd love it if it didn't just stay on paper, but if it really did. We also appreciate the investment in the revitalization of brownfields, that it has returned to its final form, because it has fallen out in the meantime. So I think that again can help those particularly industrial and coal-fired regions, but even here in Prague we know about brownfields. It's about the whole republic, so we appreciate it. What remains our subject, one of the larger ones, is that there were not too many investments in chargers for electric cars. Although it is on paper, it is precisely that it wants to support electromobility, but we are actually afraid that without the infrastructure, it will be difficult, if only last year, I suspect, to double the number of electric cars used in the Czech Republic. So I'm afraid it motivates people that if there's a bad infrastructure, I think it's more of a demotivation for potential electric car users. I don't want to talk about all these components right now, we'd be here a long time, but I'm gonna go back to what I've been talking about here on three points. So the National Recovery Plan looks much better on paper than it does in the course of it. We've been waiting for this publication since December, I'm just saying, in the end it was published in eKLEP until actually sometime in the middle of April, about three weeks before the deadline of the surrender, so unfortunately there wasn't that much time. Unfortunately, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček here spoke of the fact that this was the most consulted document in the history of the Czech Republic. We didn't get the list of subjects, the Stakeholders that were consulted. And unfortunately, I have noted reservations or feedback from NGOs, from various professional associations and from representatives of the authorities that they did not consider this to be sufficiently discussed. But that's all passé now. As I mentioned before, it's already done. It's already been handed in. I just think it should be heard here. And what's most important here, and I think it's in the interest of all of us, this government and the next, for all citizens and Czech companies and regions, so that what's on paper - and once again, I appreciate it, the MIT has put a lot of work into it and I don't want to put it down. I think it has the potential to move the Czech Republic one step forward with regard to the effective use of European funds. However, it is crucial, and we know that it does not always work, so that it does not remain on paper, but that the real implementation of these projects corresponds to all the objectives that we have set together, together with all of Europe, so that they are investments in areas that are sustainable, which have a future that has potential for future generations and for the Czech economy in the 21st century. [[unintelligible]] [[16.20 hours]] So we will definitely monitor and check that the government of this one and the next one, whoever's there, can get those promised 37 percent of the investment in the green technologies into the green trance. So that it would not only be formal, but the projects were really assessed in this way and that the money would be usefully spent in the result. After all, it is only European taxpayers' money, including us, although we are still net recipients. So I would like to read the resolution that we have prepared. I wanted to withdraw the resolution that we're going to vote on bizarrely here. I don't think we're gonna be supporting him, 'cause he's already passé. This concerns things that concern a different phase than what we are now in. So I wanted to withdraw the resolution, so I can't process it. Instead, the resolution that I presented here last time, we wanted to call on the government to prioritise, in the interests of transparency and greater efficiency of the digitalisation investment, as far as possible, an open source-code solution, because public money principle, public code, as it is nicknamed, strengthens public control, enhances security, simplifies innovation and protects - and this is probably the most important - protects against the risk of vendor lock-in, i.e. connection to one supplier for 20 years in advance, which then serves itself for high fees. It's not just our pirate fantasy, this principle. For one thing, the European Parliament has adopted it quite consensually, the European Commission has it in its strategy for digitization for this decade. For example, Elon Musk applies this to his company Tesla. It applies a lot of communities and companies in IT, and not just in IT. In short, this community approach that what is paid out of public money is supposed to be open to innovation, to public control. As a result, it will really make the solutions cheaper. That's what we consider important. We therefore wanted to call for this principle to be maintained or applied. Then we wanted to leave behind a call for the evaluation of the aid applications that will be requested by the authorities and private entities to be conducted in a transparent and predictable manner and for the government to communicate with those applicants during the course. After all, we were discussing this here today during the special meeting on REACT-EU. We just know that it doesn't work entirely optimally and often doesn't take into account the real usefulness of the project, but how quickly it clicks, and so on. And in the end, we wanted to recommend that those projects that are financed from the recovery fund, but also from other European funds, really focus on their sustainability, so that the investments and reforms that will be financed from it have a long-term impact, and it wasn't some last-minute bonding, like where we could still spend the funds, so here's some project on paper that's consistent with those objectives, so it's going to pan out there. I don't think that's entirely useful. Or I do not think that this is an entirely effective investment of both the money, and I think that it also damages the image of both the Czech State and the European Union, of European funds, when it simply does not apply to what the money is really intended for. I'm glad I still have your attention and that we have a chance to discuss it here. Unfortunately, colleagues here do not have the opportunity to speak, because the ANO club did not want to reopen the discussion about the recovery plan, which is to bring 200 billion to Czech companies, citizens and regions in the coming years. I think it's a shame. However, I consider it important to mention this here. I think we're trying to be objective, as I mentioned here. Some of these components are built quite well. Now it's about the realization. So these are the things we've come across here about the REACT-EU and the other funds. At this point, I will conclude my comment on the National Recovery Plan and, in fact, on the second point of the EU funds, the other EU funds, and on the operational programmes, we can get back to them. That is where the debate will take place. Anyway, if a member of the government doesn't appear, I would like to apply in accordance with Paragraph 66 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, the Chamber of Deputies, to allow the debate to be opened after all. Because I could have made a good comment here, I could have made a bad comment here, and I think that colleagues really should have a chance to follow up, or even to discuss, to respond to my words. I therefore understand that, although we have prepared the previous resolution with colleagues from the ČSSD, it is not something that they want to discuss. But I still think that everyone should be able to perform in this House. So I will ask the President to put to the vote on this proposal of mine, and I believe, if necessary, that we can continue this discussion on that second point, if necessary. But we're trying to do it strictly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u3	Thank you. Am I correct in my understanding that you want to be returned, open up, have a detailed debate?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u4	I would also ask for the opening of the general debate first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u5	Okay. So, of course, I'm going to vote on it immediately. One vote on opening the debate in general and in detail. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 3, 86 Members registered, for 26, against 4. The motion was denied. Vice-President Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry we didn't open the debate. I would therefore suggest that we open up at least the detailed one, where it would be possible to read some other resolution if necessary. Alternatively, I would like to point out that I consider that my colleague Kopřiva may, if necessary, propose to withdraw his proposal. Perhaps it would be cleaner than voting the resolution here, which is already completely passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u7	Thank you. Another procedural proposal to open a detailed debate. I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 4, we have 86 Members registered, for 23, against no one. The motion was denied. Mr Ondřej Benešík, with priority right, will be prepared by Mr Kopřiva. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to confirm the rapporteur's words that, in fact, eight of the resolutions that we have proposed are passé, because the government has already sent its recovery plan to Brussels and approved it. So we can't do the government's job or recommend anything anymore, because the material is closed. However, I would like to thank the members of the Committee on European Affairs for helping to create a platform for employers' representatives, employees, non-profit organisations, educational institutions, representatives of regional and local authorities, so that we can jointly formulate certain policies and put pressure on the government to work on the comments of those who will ultimately implement those projects designed to increase the resilience of the Czech economy and society and to launch its transformation so that it is better prepared for the future and more competitive. One example for all that our pressure was not completely unnecessary and that the government often lacks some sort of strategic perspective and conceptuality. So in the original, first government proposal, only one billion were allocated to digitization into the private sphere. After our pressure, these funds, the allocated funds, have re-amplified. So here you can see that it is really worth talking to those who are involved in the development of the Czech economy and society, and that we should not just rely on officials, government officials at the ministries. Of course, they have their expertise, but this is just a strategic conceptual perspective. And I am very happy, although I can have reservations - and I have - about what we have sent to Brussels that many things have been able to move, fix and improve. For this, I would also like to thank the members of the Committee on European Affairs, who not only did not defend themselves, but helped create such a platform and pressure on the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u9	Thank you. And the rapporteur has come forward, who will probably introduce us to the process of dealing with resolutions that are essentially no longer up to date, but we have to deal with them somehow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u10	Well, unfortunately, I have to express my regret about the incompetence of the members of the government coalition. It really doesn't make sense to me. Instead of downloading the old resolution in a detailed debate and reading the new one, we voted it out, and we had it done in five minutes, so we have to go back to doing it in a not-so-practical way. So I propose, or I withdraw the resolution that I have read at the last meeting, all those points, with the fact that we will propose them in some modified form at that next point, because it concerns all operational programmes and European funds. However, he has also read the resolution, three points, Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. And I am looking at it now, and I think for myself that at least one point in the resolution is already passé, that we are also taking note of the National Recovery Plan. Well, he's done. But I think we have to vote on it now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u11	Okay. I would have let you vote first on taking back your proposals, the resolution that you tabled, so that we could vote on it so that it would not be your will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u12	Yes. So now we are going to vote on the withdrawal of the eight items in the resolution that I have read in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u13	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 5, registered 88 Members, for 81, was against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u14	Now, as I mentioned, Mr Vojtěch Filip presented three points in the motion for a resolution. And now I'm only asking if there's any objection to voting together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u15	I don't see any objection, so we can get together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u16	Let me now read Mr Vojtěch Filip's resolution: "First, the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the unfinished National Recovery Plan; secondly, it requires that the National Recovery Plan, including the National Reform Plan, be revised in the framework of the inter-ministerial review procedure, so as to remedy the major shortcomings, and thirdly asks the Government to submit a seven-year plan for stabilization of public finances with the involvement of the National Recovery Plan and the National Reform Plan."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u17	I've started the vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 6, 90 Members logged in, for is 22, against no one. The motion was denied. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u18	Ladies and gentlemen... [[The speaker turns to the President:]] Shouldn't we start at the second point?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u19	Wait. Did we deal with everything?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u20	Sorry. We have now dealt with all the proposals made in the detailed debate on paragraph 1 of this extraordinary meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-27-ps2017-093-03-001-001.u21	Okay. Thank you. I hereby terminate the discussion of this point. We're going to proceed to questioning point number
