ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u1	1. Proposal for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency To this point, we have received the House document 7808. I ask that the proposal submitted under the authority of the Government be made by the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Please, Minister, take the floor. [[Response to a note off the microphone.]] Yes, but before that, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš was given priority rights, so it will be him who will finally present this point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Yes, I was originally supposed to have the European Council, which ended late last night, so I originally wanted to apologize, but the Council ended yesterday, so here I am. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the situation in which we are now in and the request and the reasons for the request for an extension of the emergency situation are notorious to all. I think we've been here for the seventh time. Once again, we're asking for an extension of the emergency, and I strongly hope that this will be the last lockdown, and this is the most important. And I think we all understand the situation, and people are ready for it. I sure hope we can do this, and we're not gonna make the same mistake we made before Christmas. Of course, we all want the children to return to school as soon as possible to play sports. So now I was going to ask you to support us. It cost us a lot of energy, all of us, and the reasons are pretty clear. I think we have also tried the opposition... mainly Minister Blatný has submitted really specific materials, material about the closure of the districts, because they really have had a positive effect on the decline in the number of infected, also analysis of the trend of COVID-19 disease, presentation of selected pointers and other things. So I think we should all understand that the arguments are here. We're all, of course, bothered by the restrictions on the closure of the districts, but I understand that they're all frustrated, that it's taking a long time, and of course the psyche of all of us is at risk. But I think there's really hope now that this could be the last lockdown. The numbers are dropping. They are falling slower than we thought, and Dr. Smejkal's new expert team, who is, on the one hand, a new member of the Health Risk Board and advises the Minister of Health, does not really recommend at least Easter and clearly states that we cannot afford any relaxation. Even some epidemiologists and experts are calling for a complete lockdown that would affect our economy, but here we have been debating this, and we cannot jeopardize the budget and other jobs, so we have asked for an extension. The hospital situation is still bad. The state is 7 853 people hospitalized and on the ips more than 1,700. Of course, the age structure is completely different. Yesterday, 500 people were hospitalized, average age 65. So it's not like it was last year that they're over 75 people. The situation in hospitals is falling very slowly and, of course, we need to take further steps to cope completely with the epidemic. It is, of course, best to limit contacts and I think the lockdown has worked. Of course, the main thing is massive vaccination. That's what I do most, and I just want to repeat that we ordered enough vaccines. We ordered almost 25 million vaccines, and now we are negotiating another 10 million Pfizer/BioNTech from 1 October. And Pfizer/BioNTech offered. respectively, we negotiated, and above all this is the initiative of Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz - I was the second in Europe to support him, then Croatian Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovič, Slovenian Prime Minister, Latvian Prime Minister - and yesterday we all fought to return to the distribution of vaccines by population, because it is the only thing fair and so we agreed in December 2020 at the European Council. The European Union has set itself one objective: to inoculate the adult population in each Member State of 70 per cent. This should be achieved in July of this year, but it is not possible for some states to be somewhere at 90 per cent and the other states to be 40 per cent. And that was the European Council yesterday, which lasted more than eight hours. And I repeat, there are various information in the media space that we haven't ordered enough vaccines. We ordered! We ordered for 13 million of our citizens. So at this point, according to the latest polls, he's only interested in getting an inoculated 64 percent. Of course, at the moment the situation changes, we will promote and persuade everyone to be vaccinated. Inoculation is the most important thing. We ordered Pfizer/BioNTech very well. We've ordered half of that, and even now we should order 2.4 million out of that 100 million. This is the most reliable supplier, unlike AstraZenec, who promised to deliver 120 million in the first quarter of Europe and only delivered 30. It continues that in the second quarter of AstraZenec promised to deliver 180 million, and only 70. The most absurd thing is that Europe exported 77 million vaccines and only received 80 million. The European Union has exported a total of 77 million since 1 December last year, of which 43 million have been exported to Great Britain. From that amount, we exported about 11 million and to the United States as well. And the United Kingdom exported zero to the European Union and the United States exported zero to the European Union. So we're exporting this, which, of course, is a problem. We discussed this yesterday because it is simply not possible that there are not enough vaccines for European citizens and that these vaccines go out of Europe. Licences have been introduced from 30 January 2021. About 350 applications were submitted and only one of them was rejected. That's not good either. So the vaccines, that's actually the key to everything. We're doing the best we can. We have 233 vaccination sites. Along with the county, I think we're handling it, that it's gonna be inoculated as much as possible. Of course, there is still a need to work out the relationship between practices and individual vaccination sites, because there is - we are certainly, if we have enough vaccines, of course, able to inoculate the practicers considerably more. From suppliers the Czech Republic had originally 600,000 from Astra, unfortunately only 391 000 will come for the first quarter. And Johnson & Johnson, who promised on April 185,000, will only deliver twice as much as 20,000. That's the main thing. [[11.30 hours]] So the antidote drugs, the Bamlanivimab that I promote everywhere - and it's a shame that hospitals and doctors don't use it to a greater extent, and I always recommend it to wait again - but mostly I tell all citizens who have ischemic disease, higher pressure, diabetes, they are overweight to know that this medicine, when the practice gives them the hospital on the third day of positivity, actually works. These are specific examples. The fact that there aren't enough clinical trials or papers is irrelevant. The point is, it works. We bought it, and I'm just sorry it's still not used by enough doctors. Citizens should know. Seventy-five-year-old male, ischemic disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, overweight - overweight is a problem, obesity - got 6. Three, he's never been to a hospital. And if he didn't get it, he'd probably die. That's why I'm still plating for it. Regeneron arrived today. That's the drug that President Trump got, we got the first shipment of 4,000 doses. And it's also important that the indication should simply be correct, so that the indications for using the drug are not narrowed down, so that it gets the widest possible number of people who have a predisposition to end up on an ICU and are life-threatening. I'm sorry, maybe it doesn't belong here, but when I have a chance to talk about it, I always talk about it, and I think that if we have a medicine that works here, then we need citizens to know about it, to demand that doctors be more active in it. So it's still about the health and lives of our people. I think you'll all understand that our request to extend the emergency is justified. We have discussed this, and let us now try to forget that there will be elections in October, and try to do this truly humanely and with insight and understand that this is really important. The virus is a killer, it kills people, unfortunately, even younger years die on those ICUs. Why do we have so many people there? Because there are actually younger people who are there for a longer period of time, a stay before they recover, so I think it's very important for all of us. So that's why I'm going to ask you all to proceed responsibly. Of course, I want to ask the citizens for patience. We certainly do, after Easter, on the basis of the overall situation, and I believe that this is going in the right direction, we will sit down and announce some dates of return to schools and other things, which, of course, the government should then agree unitedly, communicate and, of course, respect the most important of all. That's why it's important that we don't mess up this time, which is why I'm asking for your support and understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u3	Thank you. Minister Jan Blatný will now speak with priority rights. I just want you to be informed, I will read the order of priority rights: Vice-President Okamura, then I, then Vice-President of KSČM Leo Luzar, then President Jurečka. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I will introduce you to the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Tomáš Petříček, today from 11.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you today for the seventh time with an emergency request. Although I stand here repeatedly and as a doctor, expert and minister, I believe that this is not the last time, the situation is different today. I'm asking you to extend the emergency situation, which I believe could really be the last. Whether that is the case depends on all of us and on your decision today. Why do I allow such bold speculation? Because I can clearly see, and on the data, I can prove that the most stringent measures now set up and so far are working very well, and because this week a millionth person in our country has already been given a vaccine. Both are good news. Allow me to divorce them now. It must be said that the epidemic that we have been facing since the second half of January is a different epidemic from the one that was here until Christmas. The virus changed fundamentally and our approach to it had to change. We had to respond to the fact that our previous measures and the level of compliance for the new variant of the virus were not and are not a serious obstacle. This was fully reflected just at the end of January. The British version of the virus has been transported in our country, and as we all observe, something similar is currently happening in a number of surrounding countries. In retrospect, we now know that this new virus has been in the Czech Republic at least since the beginning of December. If we had this information before Christmas, we might have acted like governments and citizens otherwise. But at the time, we did not have it, among other things, because during the summer or autumn a system was not sufficiently set up to draw attention to it. It is one of the tasks that I have begun to address after my arrival at the Ministry, and now the so-called surveillance system is a laboratory group of the Ministry of Health ready for early implementation. We will also be able to face preventatively similar difficulties in the future. Because we're facing another virus, we had to set up other measures. The virus is stronger and our measures must take account of it, and so it has. The first and relatively fundamental change was the introduction of respirators, which I have been calling for for a long time. As banal as this change seems, we know from experience not only from Austria how powerful the effect can be when it is respected by everyone. The second change was the restriction of movement between counties. As much as this restriction carries with it the limitation of comfort, its effect is undeniable and on hard national data I am able to demonstrate how effective this measure is. Thanks to it, the wave of disease and death, which rose to a high height in the northwest of the country at the beginning of the year, will surely all remember the Karlovy Vary and Hradec region, much slower and far smallerly overflowing to the southeast. We will never prevent her from going through all of our own, but thanks to this measure, we have spared many lives. If I can save another's life, I must sacrifice my comfort, at least I, as a doctor, am quite clear about it. The other two measures were no longer horizontal but targeted. They were part of the temporary closure of all schools and kindergartens and testing in employment. The new virus differs from the old virus by attacking more easily and more children, including small children. They themselves do not usually have a serious course, although the number of children with covid and so-called postcoid syndrome has recently also increased, but can infect their parents and grandparents. We saw it clearly on the data from Great Britain and then we watched the same picture in our country. Following the closure of schools and kindergartens, the number of outbreaks and infected children fell in order. Testing in employment, which I have long been in agreement with several expert groups, also bears fruit. There are also great thanks to all employers, employees, the Ministry of Industry and Trade for help and cooperation. Since its initiation, thousands have been able to capture people who would otherwise unwittingly spread the infection among their coworkers and among their loved ones. I would like to stress that although the percentage of positive people is relatively low, in absolute terms it is a large number of diagnosed. [[11.40 hours]] I would also like to mention vaccinations. Within the European Union, we are the eleventh with regard to the administration of the first vaccine dose and even the sixth with respect to the vaccination of people over the age of 70. So we are not in any of the last places, on the contrary. We're inoculating tens of thousands of people a day, and the only restriction now is the number of vaccines delivered. We have protected more than 60 percent of all seniors over the age of 80 and around 35 percent of people over the age of 70 from the risk of disease or death. Thanks to vaccination, we have enough paramedics to take care of our sick fellow citizens day and night, for which they owe thanks. Inoculation is the largest logistical operation in the history of Czech health care. Yeah, sometimes there's a little friction or something, but we're doing well with the vaccination. That's a fact, and it's only gonna get better. Thanks to all these measures, the current wave of the epidemic has been able to stop and turn around. I'm sure you'll recall that when I proposed to introduce the above-mentioned hard measures more than three weeks ago, I said that after three weeks, the numbers would be similar to those of that time, but we would be on the descending, not the upward part of the curve. And so it did. The material and professional approach that I have followed throughout my entire work at the Ministry of Health may be a little popular and not popular, but leads to a goal in my opinion. Some may think that some of my proposed solutions are longer than they would have imagined, but quick and pleasing solutions are not the best and are not even appropriate in the context of our current situation. And that is why I am asking you now not to put an end to these effective measures prematurely, so that we do not succumb, as several times in the past, to the simple winnings and the false belief that we can weaken because we wish so much. Yes, we all wish it was normal, and that's why I'm standing here today. I ask that the above measures be allowed to continue to apply. She, along with her continued vaccination, hopefully I won't have to ask you for something similar in the future. I'm asking you today, perhaps for the last time, to extend the emergency situation. I greatly appreciate the constructive conduct across the entire political spectrum that has taken place in the last few days. All interested parties sought to act on the basis of data and advice from experts. That is why I am making it clear to you today that maintaining existing measures, including restrictions on movement between districts at least to Easter, including supporting 18 of the 20 members of the epidemiological group of the Ministry of Health, including 14 directors of regional health care stations and 12 of the 12 members of the MeSES expert group, gathered by colleague Smejkal and with whom we cooperate. As far as I know, most of these experts are consulted by you in other political parties. That is why I say that if it were decided differently today, such a decision would go against the expert recommendations of most of those who are currently engaged in this area. So what's the next plan? At least until Easter leave the existing measures unchanged - when I say to Easter, I mean to Easter including - without changing their settings and without changing their compliance, which must be strongly controlled. In the week from 6 to 9 April, the situation will be evaluated again and we will proceed accordingly. There is also a plan for the gradual return of children to schools accompanied by testing. The date when it will be possible is 12 April. The comprehensively revised antiepidemic system table, which is based on standard parameters used for the evaluation of the epidemic by most European countries, is also finalized. It also takes account of the opposition's proposals. Before Easter, the public will be familiar with this table as well. For my part, I can promise you that in the two weeks before the House, if you wish, I will give you detailed information about the current state of the epidemic and the next steps. It can happen - and I really wish - that I had good news for you. It is now up to all of us, on me, on the citizens of this country, on the government, on the opposition, on you Members. You have data for your decision from both your expert groups and the Ministry of Health. Finally, they are publicly available and we have provided them to all parliamentary parties. Therefore, I will not speak in detail in numbers, but I am prepared to argue in the debate as I try every time I have the honour of discussing with you Members. According to experts, it is clear from the data on the state of the epidemic in the Czech Republic that it is now impossible to alleviate and that it is necessary to endure. But we're on our way. Let us not be seduced by the tempting promise of comfort and concession. Finally, I will recall the idea on which most democratic regimes are built. It is solidarity, and it will carry with it a little while longer the demand that we sacrifice our benefit in favour of protecting the health and life of the minority for some time, even at the cost of temporary harm, including material, financial or social. I beg you, make a good and fair decision. Decide professionally, not politically. I believe you and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u5	Yes, thank you, Minister. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give our position immediately at the outset. Once again, the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, as the area bans are not a path and lockdown is not a solution. We've been discussing an emergency situation here in the House over and over again all year round. And look, 14 days have been going on for a whole year. Seemingly, this subject could be exhausted for everyone. What about something that is still cyclically repeated with the same arguments on the side of the government? The SPD, which rejects the emergency and lockdown, has gained and acquired further and further arguments against extension throughout the year. First of all, the government has still failed to analyse the health risks of the covid, including a thorough analysis of what people were dying of last year. That is no longer an incompetence, that is the intention, by the way, because both Prime Minister Babiš and Minister of Health Blatný have already publicly acknowledged that not everyone dead and registered as deceased on covid died of covid. We know that when it comes to emergency conditions, the ministers here are brazenly lying to us, like Mr. Hamáček from the ČSSD, who makes up that without an emergency, the army will not be able to help. It was from the beginning and for us, the legal laymen, the obvious stupidity, so that he did not hesitate in the House to disprove the Minister of Defence Lubomír Metnar, who said that the deployment of military aid allows the law on armed forces. Thanks to Minister Metnar for the courage to resist the fascism of our country by the ČSSD leadership. Of course, next week it will warm up, bright sunshine and spring will begin. Respiratory diseases, including covid, have fallen, like every year in human society for thousands of years. The number of seriously ill patients will also decrease with the growth of the sea. Mr. Home Secretary Hamáček says that the end of emergency conditions and restrictions could occur after more than 3,000 people with covid lie in hospitals. It's no big deal. At this point, it is enough to limit the non-standard surcharges for covid beds to hospitals and to improve the condition immediately. Extras made sense if medical workers were to receive them for hard work, but as we also know, health professionals usually receive only a few extra tens of crowns. Somewhere, like in Pardubice County, even just CZK 8.30 an hour, while hospital managers collect hundreds of millions, which they then spend on shopping. [[11.50 hours]] After all, public procurement is the only thing that works today under emergency conditions, and as the Supreme Audit Office revealed this week, it has been confirmed that the government overpriced the contracts. In this context, I was very unpleasantly surprised by yesterday's vote here in the House at noon, when the SPD MP was the only one who voted in favour of discussing the report of the Supreme Audit Office, which stated that the government overpriced public procurement for the purchase of health material last year, so the SPD MP was the only one who voted in favour of having it discussed yesterday. Yesterday, there was room for this after 6:00 p.m., and all the other MPs, apart from the SPD, voted for this item to be eliminated and for this meeting to be a report from this week, a finding of the Supreme Audit Office not to be discussed here. That means, even the parties like the pirát and others who are anti-corruption, voted yesterday to remove this item from the agenda so that we cannot discuss it at this meeting, the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office, and to make it appear from the programme basically yesterday's meeting, because today is already extraordinary, so that it cannot be discussed this week. So it turns out that the SPD is the only opposition party here and the only really anti-corruption party, because when are we going to discuss it? A week? Two? Three? If this is a report from this week and it is a clear error on the basis of the Supreme Audit Office's conclusion, is it about overpriced public procurement by the government? [[What?]] So yesterday, the vote showed up because it wasn't words, it was actions. Well, as an SPD MP, we were prepared to be here until night to discuss it, but unfortunately, we were left alone, so this item, which means discussing the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Office on overpriced government contracts, was eventually excluded from the agenda because you all overruled us. But back to the government's request to prolong the emergency. After a year of government measures, their illogicality only escalates. The hospitals were called to help students of secondary health and higher medical schools as well as all the years of higher and higher vocational schools preparing for non-medical medical professions. These students are banned from going to school so they don't spread covid, instead they enlist directly in hospitals. It's so absurd that he wouldn't even attack the authors of the most fantastic movies. The government denies pupils and students under the pretext of disease daily study and then instructs them to go to school where the infection accumulates. The competition for the greatest illogicality and absurdity is, however, very difficult for individual nonsense to win because the government constantly trumps itself. In a million-dollar Prague there is movement between districts and busy business centers without restrictions, while in the regions you cannot go to the shop in a town in another district two or three kilometers away. You can't get in a car and drive five kilometers to your garden and grow it because it's also in another county. The Minister of Health Jan Blatný confuses people with a misguided statement that all vaccines are the same and equally safe. I understand the reasons for the statement, but he only disqualifies him as a doctor, because perhaps he also knows that any vaccine can have side effects and that can be really dangerous for some of the risk groups, and therefore the treating physician should assess whether the patient is fit for voluntary vaccination and possibly for what vaccine. I repeatedly call on the government to allow the availability and treatment of medicines that are used in many countries in the world, and even here the government's activity is slow. And somehow we're still lying about the fact that vaccination is better than the natural immunity acquired after contact with viruses, and also about the fact that a large part of the population has natural immunity so strong that it's not even positive after contact with covid, regardless of the amount of so-called viral charge. Fortunately, hundreds of thousands of families have seen this, where only one member of the family was positive. This, however, goes back to the absence of an honest analysis of the hazards of SARS-CoV-2. Of course, because if it did exist, we will find that the government destroyed the economy, thousands of businessmen, employees, and companies, thwarted thousands of lives, and the year of our lives completely meaningless. After a year of general government measures applied by the government of the ANO movement, ČSSD with the support of the KSČM, the Czech Republic is statistically the worst in Europe, and even the worst in the world. This is truly awful, where this government has brought us. And there's no excuse, because we have a comparison literally with all the other countries of the world, where we stand. Given that we already have a decision by the court today on the unconstitutional nature of government measures, it is clear that the government is flagrantly and unprecedentedly violating the constitutional rights of citizens. After all, several times I've called for an analysis of measures in the world. Why don't we compare the effectiveness of individual measures, why don't we compare data from countries where there are no restrictions or are minimal? The government will not escape this comparison over time anyway, and as we know, where experts have been thinking about lockdowns, there is an increasing belief that lockdowns are killing and harming more than covid. I wonder why no one in the government cares how many people are in the hospital today with cancer to compare it with the $3,000 required for respiratory disease. All we know is that about 30,000 people die of cancer every year in our country. We know that 90,000 people each year develop a malignant tumor. We know that almost half a million people are permanently ill with cancer. And we also know that government hysteria around the covid has killed and killed a lot of cancer people because they have limited prevention, diagnosis, and treatment, not to mention how stress from the covid heavily eliminates human immunity. About a percentage of people are threatening covid on life. The government should look into the eyes of the roughly two and a half million people in the Czech Republic who, according to statistics, will die of cancer. Tell them that you don't care about their life, treatment and death, because you need to do overpriced jobs in an emergency, and that you can't do without bans and unconstitutional downsizing our freedoms. Tell them, government, in truth, that their health does not interest you. Say you don't give a shit about the constitutional right of our children to educate themselves. Say you don't give a damn about the constitution that guarantees this right and other ripped freedoms. Tell me honestly that you don't give a damn about all the judgments the courts have tried last year. Tell the truth at last - a year of lying has not convinced a vast part of the citizens. It is unacceptable for our SPD movement that citizens cannot travel between counties to their relatives, plus at the time of the coming Easter holidays. Protection should be directed only at risk groups which should be provided by the State with freely available medicines and ensure that the medicines are available, vitamins, disinfectants, drapes and respirators. There is a need to open retail and services, including gastronomic services, and pupils must return to schools only in the form of basic measures. It is necessary to enable citizens to live and not to let them live. While patients in hospitals lack oxygen because of lack of oxygen bottles, the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček of the ČSSD writes selection procedures for the purchase of water cannons for police officers against demonstrators. Lately, the police have been multiplying disproportionately against our citizens. The SPD appreciates the work of police officers who only perform tasks. Czech Interior Minister Jan Hamáček from ČSSD is fully responsible for the final result of disproportionate interventions. He gives the instructions, he gives the framework for how the police should proceed. Everything lasts too long, and the government hasn't come up with any suggestions on how to deal with the situation outside of emergency. This makes enormous demands on the psyche rightfully dissatisfied public and also police officers to proceed in the context of compliance with chaotic and draconian government measures. The drapes may have to be worn completely illogically in public, even though the person is alone. That lacks logic, and here is the result. [[12.00 hours]] The policy of repression initiated by the government of Andrej Babiš and the Minister of the Interior must end Jan Hamáček. We do not agree that, under government regulations against visibly unarmed citizens, the police should use tact and grips and lay them on the ground for the sake of not wearing masks. Unreasonable actions and procedures against our citizens, such as in Beroun, Ostrava or Hungary Hradiště and so on, need to be investigated and derived from them specific political responsibility. Minister of Interior Hamáček, who is also Chairman of the ČSSD, is calling for a resignation. This government has no strategy, has lost public confidence and has full responsibility for the current situation. The demise of the incompetent ministers who have failed is needed, which is also the Minister of Health Jan Blatný and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Tomáš Petříček from the ČSSD, and will quickly enable the emergence of the government of experts. Today, the government is asking for an extension of the emergency for another month, and of course it knows very well that the month is probably not going to give it, it is counting for 14 days, so it is asking for a month and hopes it will get another 14 days, because other opposition parties, besides the SPD, actually support the emergency situation in some way. And the one in opposition quotes will be able to cheer their voters up, that they beat the government and only approved them in quotation marks for 14 days. And then the government, too, in the quotes of the opposition, will pretend that they won, but in fact, because of their inability to deal with the situation, we all, the whole country, and people die unnecessarily from the consequences of the lockdown and the covid panic. The SPD movement has consistent opinions and we have the courage to tell the truth. Let's fight the virus, not the people! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. Now it's my turn when it comes to performances, me. Mr Leo Luzar will be ready and I will hand over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u8	Have a nice noon, and Vice-President of the House, Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala, will be prepared for Club KSČM by Member Leo Luzar. Mr. Vice-President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u9	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I do not know what opposition quotes the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Tomio Okamura has been talking about, but the opposition for which I speak will certainly not approve of extending the emergency situation for a week or for 14 days or for a month. I'll be talking in three short blocks here. First, I'm going to talk about what the emergency is today and why we don't need it. Secondly, I'm going to talk about what not prolonging the emergency situation definitely doesn't mean. And thirdly, I'm going to talk about what the government should urgently do instead of constantly prolonging the emergency situation. So, first of all, what the emergency means today and why we don't need it. Let's tell the truth about the emergency situation. At this point, the emergency is just some cover-up, fig leaf of the government, cynical fig leaf, because people don't need it to protect themselves effectively against the virus. There's no need for an emergency. All the government needs to do is make it look like she's doing something, fighting for something. And that's her theme: Let's prolong the emergency again! And it's all over again. It's a political déjà vu we've been experiencing over and over again in three weeks, the one in a month, 173th day in an emergency. I'm sure there were times when we needed an emergency, I don't doubt it, that's true. That was the moment, and we supported it from the opposition back then. But these times, these times, when we needed an emergency, those times are over. The emergency is at this point, I used the word fig leaf or cover-up maneuver or call it whatever you want, but it's something to hide that the government has no plan that people can trust. It's more like she didn't order the vaccines the way she was supposed to. That overpriced and dysfunctional equipment was bought here and so on and so on. It's supposed to hide the fact that the government can't tell people any more scripts at the moment and give some hope that it's always improvisation. For me, the script isn't "we're coming after Easter and we're gonna tell you again." This isn't what we've long been calling for and what people want to hear. After a year of pandemic, and I am reminding you here, and already some people who have performed here, colleagues, have said, the year of pandemic, and the government is looking here, as if we are now surprised, showing the helplessness and inability to control things and influence them, and instead of moving around in a rational way, the general public has the impression of war over and over again. I use this word deliberately - the impression of war. We're here to listen to them fight for an emergency, against the opposition, fight for an emergency, which is a matter of life and death. But that's just not true! That's not true anymore. Today's emergency isn't even relevant to the management of the pandemic. Yes, I used the analogy, I used this analogy on purpose, and I would add two basic facts to that. The fact number one is that the pandemic situation is improving, not good, but improving. And fact number two, and it's also important, and it's also a fact: if the pandemic situation continues to improve or doesn't improve, it has nothing to do with the emergency today. This is not related because all the measures we need can be taken without emergency. Ladies and gentlemen, why have we bothered with the pandemic law here? And that was not easy to approve in either of the chambers of our Parliament. Why did we bother? Well, we bothered with him to remove the necessity and argument that we couldn't do it without an emergency. That's why we bothered with him, which is why we helped the government write him, so we helped the government approve him, and that's why some tried to believe what the government said back then. And that's when the government said, for the last three weeks, and then we're going under the pandemic law. The minister said, "The pandemic law will be enough for me to handle the situation." We won't need an emergency anymore. We will act under the pandemic law. The pandemic law is here, cost us all a great deal of effort. I don't mean just the opposition, I mean the government coalition. Yes, it's cost us all a lot of effort, and I appreciate that, you have it here. Except for the reasons I said, you don't want to use him, and you're still running the cover-up emergency war. What's it like? Well, the only measure for which the government needs an emergency, at least that's what it says, is a ban on crossing county boundaries. But it is this measure that is totally inconclusive. It is not conclusive that it affects the spread of the virus, and it is not conclusive even from the numbers provided by the Ministry of Health. I appreciate the fact that the Health Department gave us some numbers that we could look into, and if you look at the numbers in detail, you'll analyze them, our experts did it, so you'll find that there's a direct link between the county ban and the pandemic situation that there's no direct link. There's no convincing evidence that this is working, we haven't noticed any convincing number, no analysis of how specifically this nonsensical measure, in our opinion, has a positive effect on improving the pandemic situation. Why didn't we get that number or that kind of analysis? Well, because there's no such thing! There is no such thing, no such thing can be proved, and because it cannot be proved, so we say that this ban is not only unnecessary, but also annoying and psychologically, or in terms of influence on human psyche, also harmful. [[12.10 hours]] The Prime Minister spoke in his opening speech about making it human, and I agree with that, I sign it, and that's how we think about it. And when we humanly look at this ban, we see how harmful it is for people. Because how do you want to explain to the citizens how you want to explain to people that their family is supposed to be locked up in a dollhouse or another apartment this weekend, and can't the same family, the same family members of that family, sit in their car, go to another county to their cabin, be there in their garden and come back? Why? They're threatening someone, making the pandemic worse, is something going to happen? Something's going to happen. Something's really going to happen. These people will feel better, they will manage better. Their psychic health will improve, and maybe their physical health will improve, because they will be out in healthy air and will not bother each other locked up somewhere in a pebble apartment or in the city. There's no explaining why people can't do this. And it's not true that people are irresponsible, they don't follow orders, there are a lot of people who just don't do it, even though they could, because it's forbidden. But this ban, this order is nonsense, and there's no explaining it. It won't. Just like there's no explaining why a man walks down the street in a town where no one's around is supposed to be wearing a respirator. It just can't be explained, there's no reason for that, a medical, rational reason, because there's no reason. And these are the measures that make people tired. Which ultimately provokes anger that provokes misunderstanding for disproportionate police interventions and other things that we're talking about here because people's patience is over and is irritated by completely unnecessary measures such as the ban on the movement between districts like the wearing of a respirator when I'm alone on the street and so on and so on. And that's why doctors and nurses are falling tired in hospitals, doing an admirable job, which is why people don't understand the limitations anymore, and radical attempts are emerging to overcome it. And those are the reasons, ladies and gentlemen, are the reasons why an emergency must be terminated. We don't need it, and I believe that ending an emergency would, on the contrary, contribute to the health of society. Second of all, the second block that doesn't mean not extending the emergency. We've heard this before, and it's gonna go on. The government will accuse us of the fact that ending an emergency means some irresponsible relaxation and that we want to open it up, that it will be the same as Christmas, when, by the way, the government opened it, not the opposition, and so on and so forth. This, here's the argument, I think I'll take it very quickly. If the government says so, he's lying, and if he says so, he's gonna lie. Abolishing an emergency doesn't mean any wild loosening, it's not a call for us all to start acting like crazy and irresponsible. It's just not true. And here I am, I think, quite convincingly, in my opinion, he has shown quite convincingly what a cancellation of an emergency would only bring. But it's not gonna bring any wild distractions and anything like what the government's been haunting us with. I'm not gonna do the same thing I hear from the government. I'm not gonna blame the government. I could talk here for hours, hours, about the government asking us to extend the emergency situation, which imposed the longest emergency situation in Europe on the Czech Republic, which closed schools from all over Europe for the third longest time, which also brought the Czech Republic to the first place of the sad, tragic ranking of the number of deaths, which ordered fewer vaccines than it could, and so on. I could talk about that for hours, and I'm not gonna do it. And so I hope that even the government won't blame the opposition for not being able to get enough votes on its own - maybe she's already got them - for the nonsense of extending the emergency situation. We better listen rationally and try to really explain to us why these things -- and that's the only thing, and that's a lockdown between the counties, a restraining order between the counties, which is the only thing you need an emergency for -- why it's so important. It's not. Everything else you could do under the pandemic law. You said you'd proceed under the pandemic law. We have prepared the pandemic law for you, and you will say, "No, that's not enough. And another 14 days, and another month, and another 14 days, and another month, and another. It's all over again. The government can follow the pandemic law, it can do all the measures plus with the help of related legislation, and the only thing you can probably appeal to here, closed districts and emergency conditions (from) this point of view, that's just nonsense. Third and final point, and that is what the government should do, urgently do instead of prolonging the emergency situation, and I will sum it up in seven steps. First, end the emergency, open the districts, let people in the cabins and the cottages and the air. Second, prepare schools, but actually prepare, not that you are just talking about it on the basis of opposition pressure. Prepare schools for safe, gradual safe opening from April 12th. Third, focus on the availability of quality tests. Make a deal with businesses, agree with them enough to supply tests and increase compensation. Fourth, focus on the availability of high-quality respirators for people. Fifth, allow free testing of antibodies after lost covid. Sixth, correct the bugs when ordering the vaccines wrong and remove the obstacles to rapid vaccination in our home. It doesn't matter if someone is vaccinated today or next week. It doesn't matter. Every week, some improvisation, every week, when the vaccine is lying somewhere, every day that the vaccine is not used, can become human lives. And the last point - seven, show people the direction, show people hope, show people the plan. I am really pleased that the Minister told us yesterday that he took our plan to return to normal life, that he would start studying the plan and somehow use it. But that's not enough, it's not enough to study it. Let us also follow this plan, and we will certainly support you, Minister, in this regard, the honourable members of the government. Let's follow this plan. What we will certainly not support you in, however, is an extension of the emergency situation. There's no need for an emergency at the moment, and when we finally get rid of it, our company will be healthier.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u10	Mr Leo Luzar will now speak with the opinion of the KSČM MP and then prepare with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL Club President Marian Jurečka. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to begin. I'll start from the end. In fact, what we have heard so far says in other words: There is no need to do anything. Because I haven't heard a single argument that anything has been well done in the last year, but I've heard a thousand arguments that everything is done wrong. So my previous speakers claim to do nothing about this policy, because it will sort itself out. As we discussed here last time in the pandemic law, the KSČM was hard against the pandemic law because it is bad because it was created on the political order of the right. The government's lack of clue proved in a clear sense, when the right was only about its individual points in the pandemic law and it became a political mess. At this microphone, I said that a more acceptable emergency is for us than the pandemic law and its regulations. My previous speakers even tell me that the only difference between emergency status and pandemic law is the restriction of movement. [[12.20 hours]] We are constantly talking about individuals - the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Health, the Prime Minister. I'm asking what the crisis crew is doing. This is not one person, these are people who each represent their particular expertise, and these people make some suggestions. Today, for the first time, I heard from the Minister of Health the result of the vote in his advisory body, and I am glad that the measure was not unanimously adopted and that there were opinions that were contrary to his speech, but were in a minority. I consider this to be a certain output, a good output for the future, because we have also pointed out in the long term that this discussion must take place and that it is not possible to surround ourselves with just a sucker to support my opinion, but I must also listen to those who have a different opinion. And if they lose in a democratic vote, of course they're not happy, but most decide. These views must be heard and I would not be afraid, Minister, to make these opposition views public, just as the Constitutional Court does, just as it should work in a common discussion of society, that it should be known what the minority view was and why, for example, this minority opinion failed. Because this epidemic is not a simple epidemic and it is not an epidemic to order. I don't think there's anyone here who thinks this epidemic is gonna be good for anybody, because it's definitely not. What bothers me is disunity - disunity in attitude and disunity to what is happening at the moment in society, especially from a psychological point of view of influence on citizens, and in the long run here we point out that this is a mistake, that there is a big mistake, that people are not being talked to, that they are not being explained by the steps that the government is taking or wants to do, that they are referring only to individualities, but they do not speak in the context of what is happening, that they are answering shouts and cries, but they forget to add the B, the explanation. I would also very much like for the health minister to finally start talking about those who have been through this covideo. Officially there are over a million people in the register, unofficially according to research carried out by the university in Brno, if I'm not mistaken, there are up to three times as many, so we're talking about about 3 to 3.5 million people who already had covid. In other words, they have antibodies against this disease. Adding to this a million people who are vaccinated, we are actually at 50 percent of the Czech population that has antibodies in their blood, and according to immunological rules they are protected against covid infection. They don't count at all, while we could save a huge amount of vaccines if we test these people for antibodies before vaccination, and if they have enough, they don't have to be vaccinated, because vaccination actually does the same thing as the antibodies. It's completely abandoned, and I don't know why, why it doesn't count. Is that a price? Is that availability? I don't know. But at least we should start talking about it and give the information to the public, because a month ago, two months ago, I pointed it out, and I didn't get the answers. But what I consider to be a certain Pharisee is what my previous speaker, the Honored President of the ODS, said here, through you, Mr Vice-President, and how principled they are in an emergency state. It wasn't that long ago, 30 days ago, dear colleagues from ODS. Whose captains were they who restored the emergency situation in the Czech Republic? Did you forget that when you're broaching against an emergency? Or maybe you were scared of responsibility and rather shouting from behind the beech: We don't want it, we don't want it, and when suddenly it was supposed to take responsibility - and I would welcome it, because it's a regional issue and it should be dealt with on the edges - your own people have sucked. Your own people who had the power to show that your words aren't just a farce for society, and take responsibility. They didn't do it. They went to the government with a beg, and as it now appears in the Constitutional Court's decision, even unconstitutionally. We, as a KSČM, found courage and asked our members, asked our authorities how they looked at it, the situation. And yes, many of us were surprised by the result of the question. The result was to mostly prolong the current emergency situation, which we see as perhaps the last, which will be, because the numbers and results, especially with regard to the company's promulgation to the starting vaccination, could be the last restriction that lies ahead. We found the courage and asked. Many colleagues may be surprised or surprised by this decision, but it is still a relevant decision. We found the courage. I wonder how many of you colleagues have asked their members, their institutions, how they look at the situation, not the situation here in the House, not the arguments and opinions that are being raised here, but what they are experiencing themselves. Our members told us to extend it. Therefore, the KSČM, which follows the decision of its members and operates in cooperation with its political authorities, decided to propose to the Government to extend the emergency situation until 11. 4. The 14 days the government referred to as the minimum it needed, so our members who had this view said: Yes, let's give it to the government. Perhaps this is the last time and hopefully it will really help, because hospitals still have problems in that capacity, 7 965 occupied beds registered within the covide are a large number, fears among people are real and we know about them. Of course, this does not mean that this is a blank check for the government, because we are constantly saying clearly and strongly: We insist on the quickest possible return of children to schools, and so were our conditions, which unfortunately have not yet been heard by the government, and now we can switch potatoes, the proverbial hot one, between the Ministry of Education, which has not done much in the long term and has been making excuses for the Ministry of Health and so on. But we don't want to look for the culprit right now, but we want to get the kids to school as quickly as possible because it turns out to be one of the biggest problems the company has. The second thing that is perceived very negatively is, of course, the restriction of movement, but perhaps not so much the restriction of movement declared or controlled - and certainly, when you travel around the Republic, your colleagues, you perceive the form that it is not a violent form that would be applied - but the threat that it should be a violent form, that even police officers should walk around the apartments and control compliance, we consider this absolutely unacceptable. It's just not the way to treat people who are trying to follow the quarantine, who are trying to work in this society somehow. And to escalate such threats, that would be the worst thing we could wait for in the future and what we could expect people to be able to do within acceptance. [[12.30 hours]] Another of the conditions that we have repeated over the long term is open space - sports, outdoor sports and so on. The government has tried or tried to accommodate some things about the use of gowns in sports, individual sports in outdoor areas and so on. I think that the Minister, too, already perceives or perceives the opinions that are, and are not only from the lay sector, but also experts who say that the threat to the disease in sports is quite minimal. The one who has a cold or symptoms does not sport to infect others, and those who play sports do not stop with others, and it is not an essential point that would be registered and important in the context of transmission outbreaks. Or let him give numbers, let hygiene give numbers as part of the tracking, how many infected are from the outbreak within the outdoor sport. I think the figure will be in mercy. Those are the things that lead us to say - I repeat again - we don't give the government a blank check. We want the government to think about its actions every day and try to adapt them to citizens' perceptions, because without citizens, we will not overcome this pandemic. Therefore, in conclusion, in terms of the resolution of our political body, I say that KSČM will support the extension of the emergency situation until 11. 4. but, at the same time, we ask the government to really consider every day at its meeting, and by Monday at the latest, to present to the citizens some perspective and some solution to the unhappy state we have seen so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u12	I will now just announce that Mr Václav Klaus will vote with the replacement card number 21. And now the order. So President of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, then with priority rights they are still registered: Minister of Finance Alena Schillerová, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, and then at this moment we will go to the order I have, Members in the general debate. Well, Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Vice Prime Minister and Minister - Ah, Minister Zaorálek is here, so two ministers are here, colleagues, and I wish you good afternoon. I confess, very carefully and closely followed developments to prolong emergencies in recent days, especially in the last week. When I went to a meeting with the Prime Minister and some of the elected representatives of the government, I really went there very open to considering some degree of support for an emergency in the coming days, not for 30 days, but for a few days to support it and consider it. The government presented us with a key presentation in which the government presented arguments about why the emergency should be supported, and I confess that when I saw the slide that was in the presentation, which has a map of the Czech Republic and there are weekdays, weekends and this slide and this map of the Czech Republic shows a reduction in mobility in individual districts, not in all, but in a large part of them, and there were figures that in some districts there is a reduction in mobility by 1%, somewhere 16 %, somewhere 2 %, somewhere 47 percent and so on. So I thought, damn it, that's quite a serious argument for considering it and possibly supporting it. Anyway, I'm gonna drop it down here in small print was the source of the document, so I've already found the document and I've looked at it during the negotiations with the Prime Minister and some of the members of the government. It is a document that is publicly available on Google, and it is a document that provides information on the overview of the movement of the community in connection with the covid and is about the Czech Republic on 20 March 2021. And that's where everyone, even the general public, can find information about how this mobility is reduced. You can also look back at what the development is like after days up to 6. 2. In retrospect, that means even until the period before the tightened conditions of the lockdown, including those restrictions which are in the movement of persons through the counties. And there you will find that the biggest decline in movement occurred in places such as restaurants, cafes, shopping malls, amusement parks, museums, libraries and cinemas, for the whole republic minus 63 percent. And we can even see that for six. 2. the decline is greater than, for example, 20. 3. How is this measure related to police officers at the county border? Nothing! This is linked to the fact that the types of establishments and the types of services are limited. If we look further, food and pharmacies, there is a difference in long-term mobility of 0 percent. As far as national parks, parks, squares and public gardens are concerned, there is a decrease of less than 22 percent. Again, we see that even in February, early February, the decline in the first and second weeks of February is virtually comparable to what we have been experiencing in the last three weeks, in some days. This is also the case for public transport stations or workplaces. For workplaces there is a long-term decline in the last month and a half minus 8 percent and there are beautifully seen differences: weekdays and weekends. In the case of housing, there's no decline, there's plus 10 percent. So when I got to know these dates, I said, even at the meeting, I say, where is the argument that the emergency here must be extended so that we have a ban on moving across the county borders, when these measures that we can track are clearly linked to measures that the government can also take under the pandemic law. Even under the pandemic law, the government can restrict trades, services, that is, the part that, even on the basis of the government's data, means reducing the mobility of people, reducing the transmission of COVID-19. When I asked if it was possible to quantify in any way how the COVID-19 transmission has been reduced over the last few days from the point of view of measures, how much is part of the limited movement of people, how much is part of the fact that we have here already the third week condition of the FFP2 respirators, we have mandatory vaccination in companies, so I was told that it is impossible to distinguish. And I understand this to a large extent that it is difficult for the Minister and for those who work with these data, but we need to realize that, and I am convinced that with the introduction of these measures - testing in companies that we have called for the last three months, the increase in vaccination, which today is about 1.5 million people, thank God for that, and with the fact that we have improved protective aids as citizens, so I think that these are the main factors that contribute to the fact that paying God has managed to reduce the spread of COVID-19 in the population and that these numbers have been significantly, but significantly improved in recent days. I was at the EPP leaders' meeting yesterday, and there were Chancellors, premieres across European countries belonging to the Group of the European People's Party, and I have to say that the two-and-a-half-hour negotiations revolved around one key issue, and that is the question of distributing vaccines. I want to mention this here because the Czech public and the Czech population are affected by the impression that the evil European Union is redistributing unfair vaccines here and some states, including the Czech Republic, are receiving fewer. That's how it works, and even I had that feeling at the beginning of the story. But there is one important factor: those countries that are most responsive today, including the Czech Republic, Austria, Croatia, so these are the countries that did not use the option of ordering the maximum possible number of vaccines from producers during the autumn. The Czech Republic did not use it. About 20 percent of the order we could have made was not made by the Czech Republic. This is one of the important factors why we are in a situation today and why we are worse off today than other countries with the rate of vaccination. And, of course, here the government, especially the Prime Minister and the former health ministers, should say why they didn't do it, because today we would be in the position of the states that are at the top of the vaccination, and this vaccination could go much better. Here some Members are shaking their heads - I was there. The chairman of the Ursula von der Leyenová Commission explained that. [[12.40 hours]] Yeah, well, now the committee's trying to adjust it in some way. I, too, said yesterday and supported it so that, despite the fact that the states made mistakes in ordering, the Commission would try to set up the principle of solidarity and put some extra vaccines in those states, which I hope will succeed. But it must be said that there was an error of the Czech government and Czech foreign ministers - the predecessors of Minister Blatný - who had the opportunity to use the order of vaccines, which could already be within the current numbers here in April and protect the lives of people in the Czech Republic. When members of the Health Committee asked about the contracts and wanted to see them, they received practically blackened forms and did not learn any information about how and what was ordered and what could be ordered. I have to say, a lot of people are turning to me, too. There are people who write to me: Consider extending the emergency. I understand people of older age groups very well. I have both my parents in the risk group, my second parents, my father-in-laws, too. They're waiting for vaccinations. I understand these people's concerns. I'm getting texts from people who are chronically ill. But I also get written by people who are absolutely desperate not to know how to feed their families. I'm getting written by owners of companies, owners of companies in the field of bus transport, people who feed on culture, artists. I get texted by desperate parents who may have a problem with the need to put their children back in special schools, primary schools, kindergarten schools. I am the father of five children myself, and I know that the situation is not at all easy for all these groups. And I have to say, maybe I can't answer some of these people's reactions when people are sending me references that they've been waiting for some forms of help since the fall, that they haven't been getting to them. And these people are sending me references and saying, "How is it possible that the state has given a guarantee of CZK 1.9 billion this week on a Smartwings loan?" Where are the other businessmen, the ones who lost their cars, their tech, and they're gonna pay off their houses for years because they signed the notes? Where do these people stand, Madam Secretary, where will the state give them an 80 per cent guarantee on credit to enable them to survive? [[Schiller]] If he gives it to one of the big traffic companies and doesn't give it to these businessmen here? How are we supposed to explain this to these people? Where is this state's fair approach to people, to companies, to small businessmen? I can't explain it, just like I can't explain it when we hear the story of the bomb-absorbed protective equipment. At the time, the Home Secretary said it was an amazing event, entertained the respirators and drapes for 300,000 crowns. And then quietly pays off to lawyers connected to Russian companies for CZK 26 million as a settlement agreement. How do you want to explain this to the people who have lost their livelihood in the last six months? They're left with debts, equipment collected, technology, and they'll be paying for years, maybe their children, and they won't have a place to live. I can't explain this. I could understand it if, with an extended state of emergency with a high-quality defense, quality assistance was offered as other states can, and say: No one goes bankrupt, no one ends up in a debt trap from your house, because our help will be addressed, fair and fast. But I can't explain the story of these people. I can't tell them the state has the same access to everyone. I can't justify the bombastic purchase of Ivermectin to a hospital in Brno if it turns out in three weeks that even the highest price of this drug in Bulgaria would be three million less than what the Prime Minister made the purchase for, or the purchase was made on his instructions. Madam Vice Prime Minister, how are you going to explain this to people? How are you gonna tell them that the purchase was premeditated when the Minister of Health didn't even know about the purchase? When in Bulgaria you can buy this medicine at the highest bid by CZK 3 million cheaper than it was purchased here? These people are angry, afraid, and not seeing hope and light at the end of the tunnel. I would still understand in the debate if the Prime Minister had said at the meeting with us on Wednesday: We used those three weeks to have all the teachers inoculated and all those who will be in kindergarten, and we will open the kindergarten next week or next week. It's light and hope at the end of the tunnel. I would understand if he said: We have vaccinated all those who serve in special schools, so that we can open special schools and lighten up parents who have the hardest. I would understand it if he said: We have vaccinated teachers in the first, second classes, those who could start to start teaching gradually in 14 days. But there was no such information. The Prime Minister told us for a repeated question: "We will not say any more terms, I will not say anything. You guys got us a spreadsheet for AntiCovid's team. Thank you for the table, we'll inspire her. But as a government, we don't tell you any plans, especially to the public, to parents, to businesses, to owners, to workers. I confess, I have an up-to-date story from my region now. I don't know, Vice Prime Minister and Minister, if you know about him. And that's the story of the barbershop in Olomouc. Look at this story. It resonates today's headlines, Czech TV is dedicated to it, social networks. The barber shop story that says, "We're closed for a year." Nowadays, people cut in different ways, not everyone's as handy as the Vice Prime Minister could handle it at home. The barber shop says, "We're gonna open up Monday, have tests, have tests on people, have respirators, and we're gonna open up." Because these people are so desperate, they're just doing it. And now how do I get those people who are sending me that link and saying, "Well, these people are actually going to do everything logically to keep the traffic secure, but they still can't work," how do we want to explain this? I'm just giving examples of where this situation leads people. Older people write to me, older seniors write to me and say: "So we are inoculated and we cannot meet our children and grandchildren. Some people write to me: We haven't seen them in six months. We're inoculated, we're already a group of people, which you say when he's inoculated, he'll be able to open up. I can't explain to them why inoculated seniors can't meet their children and inoculated children, in some professions, let's face it, or, for example, children who have had covid and have high antibodies. Try explaining it to us, even to those people. Here are some humorous social media videos about how even the person who's inoculated, who has antibodies, who's had covid, has to wear a drape and can't meet his loved ones. I don't want to blow up government measures. I just want us to be able to make a statement about this whole thing to the public and tell them why it is, or let's just realize it and change it. We're gonna have a registry, there's gonna be an app in a week, two weeks, it's gonna be different. But someone has to say that you're working with it and that the logical questions will also have logical answers. And the answer -- there is no plan, we don't say the term, don't ask us to do anything -- so we really don't know how to relate to that. I would also like to mention that the Prime Minister has now chosen such a special tactic and has sent to Minister Blatný - if I am not mistaken, Minister - you have already received two complaint letters, is that correct? The minister doesn't say, he doesn't nod his head. I feel like there were two complaint letters in the media space. I confess, it surprised me because I do not remember the Prime Ministers of previous governments sending their members of the government letters of complaint, not at all, to send a complaint letter to the Ministry, which belongs to the party led by the Prime Minister. But when the Prime Minister decided to do this kind of practice, we sent him a complaint letter for the coalition of SPOLU today through the mailroom. And I'll read it here: "Case: Warning of breach of the duty relating to the work carried out and call for the removal of deficiencies. Dear engineer Babiš, you were appointed Prime Minister of the Czech Republic on 6 June 2018. The Czech Republic is still the establishment of a social treaty of citizens. Citizens are the source of all state power and it is exercised exclusively for them. In this sense, we consider you to be an employee of the citizens of the Czech Republic and of us citizens as tvůj zaměstnavatel. [[12.50 hours]] At the moment of your appointment, you have committed yourself to carrying out the tasks of diligence and due diligence, to respect the obligations laid down by law, to properly manage the funds entrusted, to protect the employer's property from damage, loss, destruction and abuse, not to act contrary to the legitimate interests of the employer and to spread his good name and to seek its benefit. Unfortunately, you do not perform your tasks properly, and often even at all, and you repeatedly violate your other duties. We therefore send you this complaint letter when we find shortcomings in your work particularly on the following points: In a time of unprecedented crisis, you're completely failing managerially. Instead of crisis and strategic management, you are dedicated to micromanagement and your own marketing. You are interfering with the competences and professional issues of individual ministers and ministries, although you are completely lacking the relevant expertise. You do not communicate properly inside the government or outside, your misguided decisions are often announced at the last moment, frequently changed and rarely dismissed for nonsense. You are not capable of political negotiations with the opposition or on such essential matters as an extension of the emergency situation. You do not protect the sovereignty of the country, instead you cooperate with foreign powers that are more or less hostile to the Czech Republic, and you strive to be entrusted with orders of extraordinary strategic importance. In a pandemic, you prefer your political and financial interests to the health of citizens, the interests of smaller and medium-sized entrepreneurs and the educational needs of our children. You're still in a flagrant conflict of interest, although you've been asked several times to correct it. You are unable to ensure that your government provides the protective equipment necessary for the epidemic in time and in economic terms. Its purchases are overpriced in your direction, contrary to the requirements of a proper economy and often create assumptions about abuse to enrich your or your close groups. You failed as a person who nominated herself for the head of a national vaccination. You didn't secure the preparation of the vaccination strategy, you didn't provide enough vaccines, as much as you could and had all the conditions to do, and in the whole action you caused a criminal chaos. In view of the above uncertainty of sufficient number of vaccines by the government, the rate of vaccination of the population is being reprehensible, which has a significant impact on families and their forced separation, which is then reflected in the mental health of individuals. This is a completely unnecessary gamble with the quality of human lives. You, like you, ministers, do not provide the information that you are legally obliged to provide and illegally conceal it, see contracts to purchase vaccines. You repeatedly fail to keep a clear word, for example, as far as the military budget is concerned. Under your leadership, there is a threat to the health of citizens, the education of the young generation, the economic prosperity of the country, the sustainable social and social existence of the country's inhabitants. You are breaking both the legislation and the promise made before the Chamber of Deputies to all citizens of the Czech Republic, where I promise on my honour that I will uphold my office conscientiously and will not abuse my position. You have been repeatedly brought to the attention of the Chamber of Deputies about failure to fulfil your obligations and asked for redress but without result. That is why we call on you to immediately eliminate the shortcomings raised and to carry out your tasks properly. If you do not correct yourself, citizens are ready to immediately cancel your employment, for a particularly gross violation of your duties. Prague, 26 March 2021." I sent it to the Prime Minister today, he's not here, but I'm giving it to him like this. And when I was talking about the micromanagement and the fact that the Prime Minister is entering very often and completely unsystemically and incompetently into the affairs of the various departments, I will allow him here for us, for KDU-ČSL, to make a note of the course of crisis management for the Prime Minister, because I am convinced that he needs this very much in many respects, so I will be happy when the Prime Minister makes use of this opportunity. I'm gonna hand over the voucher to him like this. [[It shall place those documents in a place designated by the Prime Minister.]] We can then agree on the form of his fulfillment. I would like to conclude completely with regard to what I have mentioned here in terms of mobility of persons, individual measures, so I would like to say that all meaningful measures against COVID-19 can be done under the pandemic law. The advantage of the pandemic law is that we are able to protect people and at the same time prevent the government from stealing from taxpayers through questionable purchases and orders, because I believe that the quality of protection of our society can be done under the pandemic law. I tried to prove it with the public data provided by the government itself. Therefore, we will not support an extension of the emergency for the proposed 30 days by the government. We believe that we can operate under the pandemic law from 29 March in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u14	Now, Mrs. Finance Minister Alena Schillerová will speak with priority rights. Once again, the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek will be prepared with the right of priority, and now Mr. Minister of Health Jan Blatný has signed up here with the right of priority. So that's the order of priority rights. Madam Secretary, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is exactly a month since the Chamber of Deputies voted to extend the emergency situation. We all remember the debate and arguments found on both sides. Although we did not agree on the joint action then, I believe that thanks to the experience of four weeks of quite successful fighting an invisible enemy, today's vote will turn out differently. In my opinion, these decisions are nothing less than balancing between the protection of health, human life, responsibility and reason on the one hand and short-sighted politics on the other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u16	I'm going to ask you to remain calm in the Chamber so the Minister can speak. We have a woman here, so let's be gallant. Calm down, please. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. That is why I would like to thank you from this point of view to all of you who are considering supporting the emergency situation, because it is because of it that we have done much more in recent weeks to protect the health of our citizens than we could have done without it. The improved trend in the fight against pandemics is without a doubt due mainly to our citizens, who have taken restrictive measures with great seriousness, but we cannot forget the legal framework without which the government would not be able to declare these measures at all. And whether we continue to have strong weapons in this fight really depends on you in this hall. There is no doubt that about 8,000 new positive cases a day, here I have numbers from the morning, is still an extremely high and unsatisfactory number. On the other hand, it is still about 3,000 less than we recorded a week ago, about 7,000 less than at the beginning of March. So converted into percentages is more than 60% improvement. And please, let's not forget that the latest statistics are higher by cases identified by massive testing in companies and offices that we've started over the past two weeks and where about 2,000 cases are detected a day. These are numbers that mean hope - hope that we have finally found a way to avert the darkest scenarios. Along with vaccination and mandatory testing, which we will test at present incredible 4 million people a week, we can say that we are currently picking that famous turn even after two rounds. And I think that not only the active drivers know how important it is to hold the steering wheel as tight as possible at the moment. We need to preserve the reservoir of existing measures because they work. We still need restrictive measures, because there are still many doses of vaccines left to inoculate the critical part of the population needed to achieve what experts call collective immunity. But we're not standing there, and that's important. [[13.00 hours]] Let me get a couple of numbers from this morning. Reported 1 459 631 administered doses of vaccination in 1 059 454 specific subjects who received at least one dose. In 400 177 people, the second dose was discontinued. At least one dose was inoculated by 274 636 people over 80 years of age, i. e. more than 62 percent of the whole population, and 170 911 was vaccinated with both doses. In elderly patients between 70 and 79 years of age, 353 287 persons received the vaccine, i.e. 35 percent of this category, and 28 795 of them were completed with both doses. Registration for vaccination has so far been carried out by 926 236 persons. 610 837 of them are reserved for vaccination at the first or second dose and 315 399 is waiting for the date of vaccination. Health care workers 41 487 registered, 28 678 persons have a booked term. Students in education 191 406 registered, 111 564 of them have already booked a term. Registration of vaccinations for general practitioners is also well under way. There are 3 527 practical doctors' offices already involved. And now for the general testing at the companies that are together with the vaccination of our ticket to normal life. In the field testing, the Czech Republic, as you all know, is literally a pioneer. From April 6, we will test approximately half a million people every day. The infected will thus be exposed in time and before they drag the disease to their workplace and to their colleagues. At the same time, we avoided the painful closure of industry, which would not only mean economic and economic but also factual paralysis of many basic functions of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, the past few months have reminded us how vulnerable we are, but the last few weeks have given us hope that if we pull together, it's us, not the virus, who's holding the end. Please keep this in mind in your decision-making today that our historic task has not yet ended and that the need for emergency conditions is not the government's invention, but the real and on all sides discussed demand, even the regional executives that are in the fight against the pandemics in the front line. Thank you for not forgetting this in the vote to extend the emergency situation. I wish, in the Czech Republic, as in most other countries in the world, to win in the face of a dangerous enemy of belonging to politics and possible disagreements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u18	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. We will continue with the priority rights, now Minister Zaorálek, then Minister Blatný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u19	Thank you. Good afternoon to you, too, ladies and gentlemen. It will not allow me to react to the speeches of some previous speakers, representatives of the opposition in particular, President Jurečka, President of the Fiala. President Fiala said the obvious thesis that he repeated when he said that the emergency situation here was just a fig leaf, that the emergency situation was just a government cover-up. In fact, according to him, we no longer need an emergency situation, because in the backgrounds that all of them were provided without distinction in this House, we could not prove that, for example, the restrictions on the districts to which we needed the emergency situation, that the restrictions on the districts were necessary, that there was a need for it, or that there was some evidence that there was a purpose. Even President Fiala here said, "Show me the number, show me the number that proves that the county restrictions really contributed to the reduction of the incidence of the disease. And he said no one's gonna show him the number, because the number doesn't seem to exist. Of course it's a little methodologically wrong, because it's not a single number. It's whether it's possible or not. And I'm telling you here, I'm addressing Mr. Fiala specifically, but actually something very similar was mentioned by President Jurečka. I think it's quite clear here that he's wrong. I'll tell you about a few things, and you decide whether I've convinced you or not. The first argument I would use as a perfectly strong, clear one for anyone who wants to see it is what happened in the districts of Trutnov and Cheb. These counties have been closed, and you in those numbers you're tracking in what you've been delivered, you can see what the impact of the closure of that county was. It wasn't just that it was protecting the others. This closure has indeed led to a rapid improvement in the situation. At this point, Trutnov and Cheb even have the lowest incidence of all districts in the country. So the impact of the closure of the counties on these two counties is exactly what you can see. And if you take that almost book of numbers you got from the government to all the deputies, you'll find one thing that I would say is important. First of all, you can see in the figures that thanks to the closure of the districts, mobility decreased by 30 percent, thanks to the closure. It is calculated that mobility has decreased by 30 per cent. Secondly, what you see clearly there is that thanks to the closure of the districts there has been a major reduction in travel to holiday resorts, to excursion sites and so on, that is, the end of gathering people in areas where people gather. That's also clearly obvious. That's the difference between what was in January and what was at Christmas. You know, at Christmas, he said it here, I think the Minister of Health, there was such a funny situation in the Czech Republic that they had their lifts on and empty ski slopes in Austria, and we had ski lifts standing and full of ski slopes because there were thousands of people there because we didn't have closed districts. Chairman Fiala is wrong when he says there's no risk of Christmas. No, they're threatening. It's the closure of the counties that prevents what we had here in January and Christmas from happening again. And even if you look really carefully at the data, you'll find that's what it's done. It was achieved that there was no gathering of people in the places where thousands of people were gathered. And then I'm going to give you the third argument, and I really don't know how President Fiala would deal with it because he seems very strong to me. After all, if you're a little interested, you'll see how our neighbors Austria and Germany are progressing. You don't know how the Rakušan do, for example, how they closed Wiener Neustadt, how they shut down the Rakušan districts even on the principle that where the incidence is higher than 500, they close the district? So they have fig leaf, too? Austria also uses district closure as fig leaf? Because I can easily prove to you that the Rakušan are moving in the same way. They're closing down the counties, I can name them for you as soon as the incidence increases, they're closing down the counties. They probably have some misguided experts, too. If you question what has been said here that the continuation of the emergency situation is recommended by 18 people out of 20, or even 12 out of 12 in the professional grémies that we have at our disposal, then add to that the professional grémia, perhaps Austrian, which apparently has the same misleading... the same fig leaves that they have in Austria because they also close the districts because they also foolishly think it probably helps spread the disease. [[Limitations?]] [[13.10 hours]] Now, let's move to Germany and get the numbers they have in Germany, because they have, oddly enough, similar fig leaves in Germany. Even there they actually close the districts simply because they found that limiting mobility in movement reduces their incidence. So all of Europe is making fig leaves when you guys here are seriously saying that it's just, which seems pretty hard to me, some pretext of ours, or in some way we're covering up reality? Is everyone wrong, then? Can we afford to use fig leaves in this situation? Can the Rakušan afford it? They're shutting the county down for nothing, too? You know, I think these are absolutely bulletproof arguments that he can see and must see anyone who wants to see them. If you don't want to take the data we delivered, look at the data from the countries around us. You realize that the way we work today is that all these workplaces are connected. I know our guys are hooking up with the wheels, which means the procedure is common. It's just because we've been here so long, we've been communicating together, and we're making the measures that we're all doing. So it would be more reprehensible if we didn't cooperate and ignored what works. There's one more thing I'd like to say for myself. You know, for the culture that I represent, it's kind of a terrible idea if we couldn't get through the fact that we're actually going to make it to the end, because frankly, if we don't do it, if we don't essentially lower the number of incidences, those infected with numbers like 1500 and so on, we're not going to be famous here with any culture, we're going to open up a couple of galleries, museums, but otherwise there's nothing, because we can't plan to go to the usual theaters with the numbers that we still have. And I'll tell you one thing: if we don't manage to cut it down, which I think is looming as possible right now, just when we finish it, just if we don't stop at this point - if we miss it again, then we're gonna brake until sometime in July, imagine it! If we just can't stand it for a while, then it's gonna start all over again and we're gonna slow down here till summer. That's something we just can't wish for, and it means disaster for culture. That's obvious. So I'm convinced that it's a huge public interest and people's interest today when we know the numbers. And only those who cover their eyes don't say so, so we just have to make it happen. It's been said many times today that there's a chance. Let me tell you something. I remember the models we had in January, and if this old virus worked here, you know, before the mutations came, I'm sure we could tame him. We would have been de facto in control a long time ago. That seems confident to you, but I am deeply convinced of it. The whole thing has ruined the arrival of a new, let's just say, British mutation. Her contagion has blown our models apart. We founded the dog, everything, and we had to start over. Someone said we're still surprised. I admit it, we were surprised, too. I just admit that the arrival of a new virus that works differently was just a surprise, and probably not just for us. What we really said here didn't work out. I also promised those people in the culture segment what was going to happen, we had prepared the "dog" that we did with the Minister of Health, and in a few days it went uphill because the new damn one came in when it turned out to be much more mobile. And today, after the next few weeks, I dare say that again we have a model of how he behaves, and managed to stop him again. It's not like we're helpless today or we don't have data. We have the data, and I'm convinced, even though it's not my resort, that we gave it to you, so you see it the same way with us. And yet you can see with us that there's a chance of dealing with this more vibrant virus, but we have to finish it, we just have to finish it. And we're telling you, then there's a huge chance that if we make it, if we reduce not only the incidence, but empty the hospitals because it's impossible to continue with these filled halls, ICUs and the like, then we can afford to come up with what Boris Johnson came up with. Boris Johnson didn't promise any plans in January until he had a high incidence, so he didn't do it until March when he dropped it, then he came up with a release plan. When you see the result, you can say with greater certainty: This is the itinerary, this is the program that we can present to you. And here it was said from the mouths of others who are in charge that we are actually able, within a relatively short period of time, to give us an emergency, to come up with that idea, once it's down again, we'll come up with an idea of how to release. This is roughly similar to the time regime they did in Britain. You know, it seems a little late to me when Chairman Fiala says, "You're just hiding that you don't have a plan." It's okay. So you kick us into our emergency plan, and then you say, "You don't have a plan." We have a plan, the plan is that we have to hold on to this regime for at least 14 days, and then there's the plan and we'll be able to submit it. So, actually, it's about not pointing your feet at what I think today is a very decent chance. Culture, my friends, is not easy. When I listen to the British Prime Minister, for example, when he says: Thanks to our greed, we are successful in vaccination. Of course, I think that's a very uncultural expression to speak like that on the public stage, because that's how sad it is today, that's how cultural is the debate. Greed is simply claimed to be a winner. And you know we don't even have a simple situation when we asked the United States, so they didn't give us any of their supplies, they'd rather give it to Mexico and Canada. It just shows up, and that's the last conclusion I dare to make here that we need to talk about Europe's strategic autonomy in the future, because that's the term that I used here earlier, and the crisis just shows how important this is, because as it turns out in a world where even in situations of crisis, like in a war, and this is similar, and all of a sudden it declares greed as a principle that leads to success. And that is why I think that we need to think about our resilience to the future in Europe, about not being dependent on key things in a way that makes us outsiders. So culture gets hit on by these things, but that doesn't mean we shouldn't hold on to it and we shouldn't try to create an environment in Europe in which we're able to defend ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. We'll continue with the priority rights. Now it is Minister Blatný's turn. Before the microphone comes, I will introduce the House with a note, Prime Minister Babiš apologizes to us for working reasons from 13.12. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will also respond briefly. Apparently, the fig leaf took over. I would just like to point out, without any criticism, just in fact, that if it were a fig leaf, then the majority of the surrounding countries would have similar fig leaves, Minister Zaorálek has already mentioned it. Indeed, the restriction of movement, including the specific measure, means the restriction of movement between certain regions, is a very strong measure and is being used by many countries. We didn't make that up, and it's not a cover-up, it's something that works really well. And I would like to point out that everyone or almost all of those addressed experts really agree on this, and if I have the right information, it is the same experts that address, for example, the ODS or other parties. For there are dozens of people who are seriously involved in this country. Just with all due respect and really on my honor, I'm saying that we're trying to communicate with them all, and it's something that's across this professional community. And yes, it is one of the main, if not the only reason why we need an emergency. That's right. And the pandemic law? It's a good thing we have him. I'm very happy for him, too. I think it was a very beneficial course that led to it, and we will need it, and we will need it for many months. Please, let us not question each other's expert opinions, expert recommendations, at the speaker's desk. And if there are any specific other experts, but I mean really experts, not politicians, then get out of the House, because I don't want to embarrass these people, let's go, I'll give you all those names that agree with what I said here, those few dozen people who are in those two groups. I'll ask my colleagues to give me the names of the other experts who oppose this recommendation, and we can put them in touch, we can discuss it all. It hasn't happened yet, so just so we don't hide behind words like an expert. A nameless expert is not an expert. And that's why we're having fun here - and I appreciate that we're having fun - really on a professional level, because this decision today is really very technical from my point of view, and it has to be. [[13.20 hours]] Some of the data from our messages was quoted here. Well, I'm just here to make sure that complexity is done. I will also note that other information was included in the data, such as data on restrictions on movement between specific regions. It's based on data processed by the Mining College and some of its institutions. I've also told everyone I've sent this to that institution that if they need to consult the data, anyone can consult, they're willing, the institute that processed it is willing to discuss it with anyone else. This really proves the difference that has happened since 1. 3. when especially on weekends, but partly on working days there was a significant decrease in movement between districts and that is what we are then leaning on. And then just a few little things. A lot of vaccine: I said it here last time. I don't need to stand up for anybody, I just generally say it - and I've already said it here: after the battle, there's every general, it's always a good assessment when we have information that you didn't have at the time. But I myself have done and done everything and I will continue to do everything to ensure that any vaccine that can reach us during the first to third quarters of this year can get to us. But let me just point out that even those countries that have bought many times more than they have their population, such as Germany, are currently in an inoculation behind us. So let's remember that the main problem is the production of the vaccines - they just don't have time to produce, and Europe isn't the only one interested in this vaccine, so that's the main problem, and it can't automatically be extrapolated by saying that if we ordered twice as many vaccines, we would have twice as many vaccines at this time. We shouldn't, we probably shouldn't. And then we would have a huge amount of vaccines at a time when we didn't need them anymore. Please, let us take a realistic look at this. I don't take it critically either, I'm just trying to bring in an objective approach here to this debate. If this particular barber shop has been mentioned here, then I'm just trying with my kind of effort to bring order into everything, I have to remind you that this barber shop is not the only barber shop, there are thousands of these barbershops. And that's why I'm asking the guy who runs the barbershop to keep up with the other barbershops for a while. I believe that barbershops and other services will be able to open up in a very foreseeable time, but by uncoordinated disruption of the system - however I understand it is a long time ago, I understand that it is wrong, I am extremely sorry and sympathetic to any such person, it is not a phrase - so please do not try to get into the system that is being built in some way insensitively, because it does not help ourselves and hurt others. And just as I'm talking about vaccination, I totally agree with what was said here. Inoculation is and must be a ticket to other activities, it must be something that allows vaccinated people to participate in activities in the future, which they might otherwise have to undergo only with compulsory testing and so on. So it makes sense to vaccinate, we're going to take this into account, the anti-epidemiological system will count on it, but we're not going to rate it for one simple reason - we're trying to be decent to everyone again, and because so far not all people have had the opportunity to inoculate, because so far we're only choosing priority groups, the vaccine here is so much that we can't offer vaccination to everyone at the same time, so that's why we're trying to take very gradual steps so far. You know that, for example, people in social services can visit their relatives when they are vaccinated, they do not need to be tested and so on and so on, hospitals are not tested by medical personnel who are vaccinated. So I see vaccination as one of the essential things that will be the ticket to a number of activities in the future. It is good to inoculate ourselves, coordinate these activities with the European Union and think about it, and thank you to President Jurečka for mentioning it here. So that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u22	Thank you, and that was the last application with priority rights, so we are approaching the opening of the debate. Before opening it, I recall that according to § 109m para. In the case of a short hearing on a proposal for an extension of the emergency situation, there shall be no discussion in the committees and no factual remarks may be made in the debate, the Member may speak not more than twice and the House may decide to limit speaking time for up to five minutes, while the limitation of speaking time also applies to the Members responsible for the presentation of the opinion of the Members' Club. And I see Mr. Kubíček reporting, I presume with priority rights for the club. So I'll open the debate and give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u23	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am going to ask you to call your fellow Members in the Chamber because I propose that we limit the debate to five minutes in general and five minutes in a detailed debate for one Member. [[Gong.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u24	Yes, I've already called. There's a check-out request, so I checked you out. And now we will wait until we have enough in the room to vote. [[Members are coming to the ballroom.]] Thank you to all who have arrived. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. There was a procedural proposal to limit speaking time to five minutes. This proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for the consideration of matters relating to the security of the Republic. I see we still don't have enough numbers, so I'll have to wait. [[According to the board, 59 Members logged in.]] Members are still coming, so I will repeat that we will vote in a procedural way on the limitation of speaking time for five minutes. Looks like we're getting close to the number in which we can vote. [[According to the board, 65 Members, 66 Members...]] One more. I'll try to get my colleagues back to the O.R. And I can see through the door that there's another one coming. Well, welcome to all arrivals. I repeat that we will be voting on the limitation of speaking time within this point for five minutes. [[According to the board, 67 were present.]] And since we already have enough entries, I'm going to ask you again to sign in, check if you're already logged in, because I see that the number is growing now. And apparently that's it. So I'm taking the vote. I said, who's in favour of limiting speaking time? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting number 4 76 Members and Members are registered, for 44, against 28. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been accepted. So we limited speaking time to five minutes. [[13.30 hours]] And the first one is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who I would also ask to become rapporteur. [[Rush in the hall.]] I'm going to ask my colleagues to leave the O.R. in peace so that we can continue calmly. I won't give you my word yet, Mr. Ambassador, because there's a lot of noise in the room. Then maybe, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u25	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u26	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I must interrupt you and ask your colleagues again for peace, of course I will extend your time. I particularly call on the left side of the hall to consider moving its call somewhere else. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u27	We're talking today about whether or not we're gonna prolong the emergency. I have a very difficult situation in this situation. I am a doctor, and I am a member of the ODS, for which individual freedom is the culmination of what one has to have. Of course, as a doctor, I perceive the situation in which we live. Unlike most of you, I do this every day. This morning, I was at the top-of-the-line covid department to check on a cancer patient who got a covid, she should be operated on, and I know what it's like to work on that department, I know what it's like to wear those bulletproof vests and masks, and I know how serious it is and how more serious patients are currently hospitalized in that hospital. Therefore, my decision-making is actually governed by very fundamental, fundamental issues on both aspects. But what is a problem that I see as absolutely essential is that we actually need an emergency situation for one thing - so that we can ban movement across the whole Republic. That's what's been going through all this critique of fig leaf. He really is a fig leaf, because we don't really need it. We do not need this because the numbers I have at my disposal about citizens' mobility do not say that we have stopped mobility in a fundamental way. I would ask a question to the Minister, whom I very much appreciate for how he can hold his professional statement and fight against everyone. My deep compliments, Minister, it is a truly brave act and you are carrying out a mission, not a profession at the moment. But I would like to know what the information from ŘSD, Google and mobile operators is, because I know from open sources that the restrictions on movement have changed by 4 to 12 percent on motorways, on small roads even less. Therefore, I wonder if these facts are being processed because the processing of such data is very complex, requires a very complex analysis and practically only the Ostrava group is able to do so because it has a powerful computer to do so. And I'd like to know if the whole republic's restriction of movement means that it's a restriction that affects development. I know the situation in Trutnov, which has been closed, the closure has had a completely different effect than the one mentioned. I know what the closure looked like, and I know that the procedure is somewhere else, not in the movement, but in what these people are doing. Secretary Schillerová here said that the steering wheel needs to be held tight. I've got a very interesting past, so I've been through a phase of rallying. The steering wheel needs to hold tight - not tight, the steering wheel needs to be held sensitively, and sometimes there are times when it has to actually let go, because the car, the wheels need to get information about their relationship to the road. And that's the situation we're in today. We still have nothing but knowing what kind of virus is here, we know it's worse, we know how to diagnose it, and we have vaccinations against it that we don't have enough, and we know we have to prevent transmission between people. Transference between humans will be much better avoided if people do not actively carry out their meetings. It's exactly the same as it was in the United States when they introduced prohibition. Prohibition brought black distillerys, nightclubs, absolute devastation to society. The moment Prohibition was banned, the world returned to normal. And that's the same thing with a restraining order - it's not being observed and it's not a thing that improves the situation. When the Minister of Education and Culture here speaks of the fact that it is the same as in Austria - it is not. Austria closes individual districts, districts with bad health, and that is the thing that we could do without emergency law, which will allow us to make a pandemic law and a normal law that we have on sanitary services. What I'm up against is that it's a state that's constantly being used for something completely different! [[In an elevated voice.]] Sometimes he tells us that the Communists... have a different opinion about money for the Ministry of Defense or that they have a different opinion about Dukovany. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And there's a struggle... for that by the way of the pandemic law. [[- Mr. Ambassador!]] That's unacceptable. What we need... [[Prime Minister, I'm gonna have to take your word for it because your time is up.]] ...it's so that people can make their own decisions freely and on their own, not on the basis of some bans... [[- Mr. Ambassador!]] ...and orders that aren't working.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, thank you. I'd like to ask you if you'll be the rapporteur at this point, if I may ask. Thank you, and please, Mrs Maříková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. absent Prime Minister, the government, a year ago, March 12, last year, you declared your first emergency. For a year now, you and the media have been spreading fear and intimidating the nation with death because the frightened people are best controlled, otherwise they could not suffer those restrictions that you apply instead of explaining, understanding and mutual discussion. During this time, you have managed to indebt the Czech Republic in a way that no government has succeeded before you. You wasted and wasted money that you don't have and that doesn't belong to you. You have stopped defending the interests of all citizens of this country. Your constant excuses that Coronavirus was responsible for everything and that you were dealing with this situation for the first time could excuse the nation for the first three months. You trample on the constitution and human rights every day. Under the guise of health protection, you put on totalitarian practices here. You're destroying the middle class, driving our economy. Because of your actions, which you have never demonstrated are justified, such as the closure of small establishments, while the transnational chains are smearing their pockets, our businessmen struggled and struggled for complete survival, the complete closure of restaurants, while in foreign dining rooms for dozens of workers working, the ordinary citizen could not and could not even go to lunch. You never proved there was a disease at the restaurants at lunch. Destroying stall sales, preventing citizens from buying basic items such as socks or stocking goods or footwear. Closing lifts and slopes, preventing people from sports. Everyone knows that moving in the fresh air strengthens immunity, but as if you wanted people in this country to be sick, you put on drapes that often have nothing to do with protecting their health against the covid. And so it is with respirators, because, as many manufacturers say, they serve only as protection against dust and must not be used for more than 90 minutes, even in well-ventilated spaces. But people out of desperation because of your senseless regulation bought them because they didn't have a choice because of availability and price. People are scared and mentally broken. Every doctor knows that when one is under stress and fear, not only his soul but his body will get sick. There are growing mentally ill people, more suicides, but you wash your hands of it and blame it on irresponsible citizens. The state's buzerace has come so far that people traveling to other regions, for example, to see a doctor, must fill out senseless statements as a protectorate. People who don't have a drape outside are facing physical destruction from the police. Now the police are supposed to control the people in quarantine. You don't know how to distract yourself from your incompetence anymore. Looks like there's no crime in our country anymore, and the police have nothing to do. You're destroying people's lives, relationships, and family ties. Our seniors in nursing services are mentally destitute because their last desire is to see their grandchildren and children and because their love makes sense to them to live. Unless you know what I'm talking about. [[13.40 hours]] You've surrounded yourself with experts who work for the system and say what you need. But you don't listen to experts independent of a system that has a different opinion. But if it's not a scientific discussion, it's not science, it's propaganda. Let me give you an example right now. You're presenting UHIS data to defend the need to close everything you've worked for. But were you ever interested in the opinion of other experts and mathematicians? This material, called the Development of the COVID-19 epidemic and the effect of the measures taken, was evaluated by two mathematicians independent of the system. They are an Olomouc mathematician and expert on mathematical modelling by Dr. Tomáš Fürst and mathematician and teacher Karel Janeček. Karel Janeček, and I quote, "I'm going to pierce the chart for myself. 16. An arbitrary stupid model can be set to more or less accurately copy the already observed data, while the subsequent prediction can be worthless or even harmful to devastating if drastic measures are taken on the basis of such models. As a mathematician, who has proved in his life that he can create great mathematical models and build bridges between theoretical mathematics and practical reality, I responsibly declare that this graph is a vulgar manipulation, which can result in the senseless haunting of people without mathematical education." Olomouc mathematician, an expert on mathematical modelling Tomáš Fürst, did a detailed analysis of this paper. I quote: "I don't know why the ÚZIS is doing this, but the material it seems to want to prolong the emergency situation is a parade of impressions, feelings, manipulations and misleading claims. The IHIS should be an apolitical body that provides expertise for political decisions. Instead, they try to manipulate the legislature into extending the emergency situation without its effectiveness giving them any record I will certainly complete my speech, so I will rejoin the debate. [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u30	Thank you. At the same time, I would call on my colleagues in the hall to take their discussions from the back desks somewhere else. And now I am asking Mr Koten to speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u31	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Ministers, Mr President. I'd just like to ask the government how many times this is an emergency, given that you've always declared that it's basically the last emergency, and then everything's gonna be flooded with the sun and everything's gonna be okay? I will return here to a pre-last emergency vote, where one of the parties that supports the government supported her in that emergency situation. It was in exchange for the kids going to school and opening up the winter resorts. In this context, I would quote only one Czech proverb that says: Only a fool burns by one stove twice. I absolutely don't believe in this government, because the only thing the government is doing here, so instead of the practical doctors treating people at the start of the infection, effectively, so they don't get into intensive care units, the government lets them fall in peace. Practical doctors have no information from the Department of Health that they should prescribe, so those who do not have the information, basically don't treat those people, they heal at home with the paralene. 'Cause if you call a doctor and tell them you have a covid, he'll say, "Drink a lot and take a paraplegic when you call an ambulance." But that's all wrong from the very beginning! Last May, the government already had effective products available for administration at the beginning of the disease, not at the end of the disease, but at the beginning, so they could effectively treat all those who were infected and would not have to receive intensive care units. Then the government wouldn't have to complain about the way hospitals are overloaded, the way doctors can't keep up. That's just the way it is. This is just one of the other blank checks to this government. Children to school and kindergartens: I have read at the World Health Organization that drapes are not recommended for such young children. I think we all see that the lack of oxygen will prevent the children from developing and everything we need children to do at school. Definitely none of the kids are gonna check to see if he's got the drape right or if he's gonna change it with a classmate. That's total nonsense! The same to mankind: I think that mankind exists for quite a long time, but in none of these eras I have observed that mankind wears drapes! I mean, it's about whether we're really gonna have a really good immunity idol or whether we're gonna ruin it with those masks. Another nonsense measure! At the same time, we all know that the respirators of the class FFP2 or KN95 won't be able to detect the corona at all, at most some droplets. Now we have other consequences, and that's economic. The economic consequences are fatal. In one year, $1 trillion of state debt. We were dealing with some help from the European Union here, 180 billion, but it's for some kind of electronization and some other nonsense projects. For proboha's sake, let's get these people back to work, let's give the business back to their businesses, which the government has already failed. A lot of people aren't gonna do it back, because the uncertainty is absolutely incredible. We're supposed to be standing here. The state is here for the citizens, the citizens are paying for the service of the state. And what kind of service does this state give him here? Well, the state only gives him restrictions! He's chasing people who don't have a drape. I mean, that's completely nonsense! He's gonna check them at home in quarantine! It's so simple. When the circuit doctor prescribes Isoprinosine at the start of the infection, the person will deal with it within five days. No one has to control him, he's in the system because he's got the recipe written on him. Oh, no, we're gonna use the police, the army to control our citizens who pay their taxes to this state, and we're gonna chase them like this? Well, I don't think any of the government ministers can be serious! But apparently Minister Hamáček of the ČSSD enjoys it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Thank you for your time, and please, Mrs Majerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u33	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. The state of emergency is something like a state of emergency, and a state of emergency is always meant to be something really special, but not almost permanent, especially when it is associated with the restriction of the civil rights of the citizens of our country. Such a condition then loses its functionality, its function and its justification, notabene, when it does not produce any results. On the other hand, it sets out the power of the government, which only facilitates its own governance and first place in the award of contracts without a tender procedure. Already genius Albert Einstein once said that the definition of insanity is to do the same thing over and over again and expect other results. This is exactly what the government has been doing for over a year. Her measures don't work, but how does she react? It tightens the same screws for longer and longer. The police, instead of chasing criminals, are firing at the county borders, and when someone refuses, disagrees, and does not want to comply with a senseless order, they are treated almost as a heavy criminal for agreeing to nod the Minister of the Interior of Hamáček and some others. Gentlemen Babiš and Hamáček have decided to take us all under their protection, whether we like it or not, and the side effects of this unsolicited government protection are destroyed sectors of our economy, bankrupt companies, desperate businessmen and the ruined existence of hundreds of thousands of people. Of course, it may also suit someone, especially those who feel no impact of government measures in their wallet. But there are millions of people in our country who don't want that kind of protection from self-proclaimed protectors. There are millions of people who have their own brains, their own responsibility, their own determination to protect themselves and their loved ones. And I'm talking for these people right now. [[13.50 hours]] To be clear, I'm not saying that we shouldn't take any precautions during the pandemic. All I'm saying is that they're supposed to be reasonable, logical, effective and time-limited, not that we're going to stop everyone's lives for a year, everywhere, and almost forever. Measures that do not produce results but merely serve the government as an alibi for doing something are useless. The government and its whisperers claim to protect us from death - thank you very much. But stopping death by stopping life is not the right solution. The criteria by which we have to make decisions are much more, and they certainly include the quality of our people's lives. And how this kind of protection is valid for a man who's been building his business for decades with everything gone, the company, the money, the perspective. Not because of coronavirus, just because of government measures. What is necessary for an old woman in a retirement home, that the government is able to protect her with every possible and impossible, even with a ban on free movement, from the covid, when in the meantime she is troubled in her own loneliness. Yes, let's listen to the experts, but to everyone, not just the chosen few. And when we follow the numbers, let's take into account all the data, but the real ones, not the purposefully manipulatable ones, which were presented to us in the material processed by the IHIS, which is another reason for extending the emergency state. Have either of you gone through this material? This is just a parade of concepts, impressions, feelings, manipulations and misleading claims. If we had real and hard data, the situation would look completely different and we would all know that there is no real reason to prolong the emergency situation. For all these reasons, I... [[Time.]] ...and the entire Tricolore will continue to extend the emergency state, which means nothing more than prolonging the misery of our citizens.....in no way will we support it. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u34	Thank you and now Mr Koten in his second speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u35	Thank you, Mr President. I kind of knew there was going to be a restriction on Members' rights to express myself, so I volunteered twice. In this way, the government coalition usually prevents the point from being dealt with in a satisfactory way. [[with laughter]] I would pause here over this historic moment, because we're actually living here in this time of the Middle Ages, in modern times and in World War II. Let's look at it exactly. When the witches chased and burned here, there were trials. Yes, we have trials here with those who disagree with the system, they don't want to wear drapes because they know it's nonsense, and stupidity has become an enforceable norm! [[Strongly.]] I think the ban on movement - it's actually kind of a protectorate, because Mr. Reich's protector is now defending us here as Home Secretary so we don't get out of the county to the county. It is an absolutely incredible situation where migrants from Afghanistan can easily cross several borders between states and appear somewhere in the Highlands or in Moravia. This is an unacceptable situation for me. The Minister of Interior should protect the citizens of the Czech Republic, but not restrict the citizens of the Czech Republic by not letting them out of the district into the district. There are plenty of places in the Czech Republic where, if you're going to buy three kilometers, you have to go because of government regulation twenty, because just the first store is somewhere completely on the other side and unfortunately in another district. Here, people cannot accept these measures at all because they are head-to-head. That's absolutely clear. Next: Government vaccination strategy. Everyone knows that we are not in favour of vaccination, but there are many people in the Czech Republic who would like to be vaccinated. But it must only be their will, not that someone will force them to do so. This is directly linked to the delivery of vaccines. A lot of politicians on this side... [[It's pointing left and right.]] ...says, or even here, that the Russian vaccine, or Chinese or any other, is bad because it did not pass through the European EMA certification. But what do we have an SÚKL for? What do we have him for? Let's just drop it. There's no point. Because if with these medicines, whether they're medicines imported from Japan or from anywhere else in the world, we can't approve them here, if SÚKL tells us that the Czech citizen is a different person than the Japonec, I mean his anatomy and body and so on, so well, that's where it can be used for twenty years and we'll be here for two years to explore if we use it for covid, when it works elsewhere. I really don't understand. I've interviewed ministers here several times to make the system transparent and user-friendly. I mean, the vaccination application system. For example, in Serbia, you can choose from all available vaccines that are ever found on the global market. If anyone wants to strengthen citizens' confidence in vaccination, i.e. those who want to get vaccinated, that is the right way to go, because there you can choose from five or six vaccines that are on the market. But we only have the vaccines here that are kind of geopolitical, and as I would say, they're just from some world side, but they're not from the other side of the world. That's probably how I'd characterize it. As far as health material is concerned, we do not mind China, because it is a very good business. We have a lot of Czech companies that produce protective equipment, but we still import them from China. And I ask, if China is so bad, then why is the Home Secretary importing protective equipment from China? Why doesn't that apply to all things? I really don't understand. Well, I think I said everything I wanted to say in my two performances. So we, as an SPD, will certainly not support an emergency, because the government doesn't convince us that it wants the end of this pandemic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. Thank you for keeping the time in the second speech and I will ask Mr Holík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. On 12 March last year, we first declared an emergency. We have taken a number of measures, which we immediately interrupted, re-installed, re-installed, and so strict that the virus should have been defeated long ago. Yes, it should have been, but a year has passed and the Czech Republic is among the number of infected from one of the worst countries in the world. That means we're probably doing something wrong. Some of us are scratching behind our ears, and they say, "Hell, where did the comrades make a mistake?" Instead of providing people with enough vitamins and movement in the fresh air, we shut people down in the apartments and shut down the movement between the counties. We've reduced the economy and we're living on debt. To a debt that will still be paid by our grandsons. So let's take a little look at what we've done. We closed most of the services, closed down the restaurants, limited the number of people in supermarkets and set 15 square meters per buyer, which, of course, cannot be observed. We've established a distance of two meters apart. I don't know how we'd -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u38	I'm sorry to interrupt you, but I must ask Mr Bojek to put his mouth and nose on, as required by government regulations in closed spaces. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u39	So let me repeat this sentence. We've set the distance between people and each other at 2 meters. That means there are three or four passengers on the bus or on the tram in addition to the driver. [[14.00 hours]] We've closed down some of the department's supermarkets. We can buy napkins and toilet paper, pencils or typewriter paper or printer paper, if we work at home, we can't buy it anymore. We complain that some people do not follow the measures. Yes, there are those who often find it hard to follow nonsense regulations when they see that other leaders don't give a shit. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u40	Ambassador, I must apologize again and interrupt you again, this time I must remind Mr Bojek, because he disobeyed my call. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u41	Okay, I think I'm gonna repeat the whole paragraph because I was interrupted in the middle. We complain that some people do not follow the measures. Yes, there are those who often have meaningless orders when they see that some leaders don't give a shit. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u42	Yes, this is an ideal opportunity. I call on the Volný Member to put on mouth and nose protection as well. I see you have a drink, but I also see that you didn't put your mouth and nose back on right after you finished your drink, so that's a lame excuse. And if you disobey this challenge, I will, of course, give you a reminder. Please continue, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, let us calculate how long it took to allow the use of preparations such as Ivermectin or Isoprinosine. Yes, you're right, these substances aren't salvation, but if they helped save at least ten people, then it's worth it, and they would definitely be used to relieve hospitals or other health facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, a lockdown can help a little, but if we stop the economy, soon we won't have money for drugs or for doctors. And that is why I and our SPD movement will not recommend extending this situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, thank you for keeping the time, I would like to add a minute or two more. Thank you, and I am giving Mr Lubomír a reminder, because he has already Volný his drink and he has not put his mouth on. All right, let's get on with it. Mrs Hyťhová is enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u45	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Government, Prime Minister, we are here again today to extend the emergency situation. We've heard it here at least a hundred times, or at least that's what it looks like to me. We are now learning that freedom restricting the regulation was actually useless. You closed the slopes, and now you're saying that it really didn't make any sense because the counties were open. So you had the traders destroyed, and now you've basically publicly admitted that it didn't have any effect. We learn that a lot of things were basically useless, I mean, wearing masks. Today you have to wear a drape, or today you have to wear a respirator, even out on the street where there is no soul, instead of letting people breathe healthyly. So you admitted that we wore drapes here for a year and basically the protection was almost zero or none or minimal. You let the businessmen go bankrupt and you taught them to lie and cheat with your measures, you taught the businessmen to work black. All of this thanks to your bans and regulations, some very senseless, for example, that you must currently have a receipt on paper when entering the district, where you are going, but at the same time you banned the sale of paper, because it is closed to paper shops, and paper cannot be bought even in a regular supermarket, which is completely senseless and very smiling. Next, you've left the kids at home for a year. They haven't seen their friends in a year, they don't know any mode, and they can basically just sit at home every day and make a phone call with their friend. You have promised here several times that you will open schools, instead you have imprisoned the little ones at home. I'm talking about kindergarten kids, I'm talking about first-degree kids when you let them go to school for a couple of weeks, I think first, second-class kids, and then you left them at home again. You didn't allow students to properly prepare for graduation, so you canceled part of their graduation. I wanted to ask Mr. Education Minister Plaga when the schools will open. There was no specific date again, only the information that the directors will know about the opening week in advance, which is very good, but it would probably be appropriate to say when this is going to happen. That is, of course, what I said to the Minister of Education yesterday. It's a disaster what our kids are gonna be. Yes, somewhere distance learning can work, I'm not saying it's not possible, but it's also the fact that distance learning in many places and in many schools simply doesn't work. Clubs are not working, children's sports are not working, nothing is working, and some teachers and directors don't know much about distance learning, even until today. That's just the fact. I will not support today's extension of the emergency situation, no way. You let the businessmen go bankrupt, the animals, the kids don't go to school, and people are sick of it. And I can tell you that there are a lot of messages that I get on my Facebook page and a request e-mail so that we don't prolong the emergency anymore, and I'm sure you all get them. That's why I'm saying I'm not going to support this emergency situation and I'm going to stand up for people who are really sick of it and everything, but I don't blame them at all after a year and nobody can blame them at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u46	I thank you and Mr Bojko is next in line for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to: According to Section 59 of the Scriptures. 1 "The House may proceed to this point without debate on the limitation of speaking time, which may not be less than ten minutes." Am I to understand that the five minutes you voted here are against the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u48	No, you don't understand. Turn up 109m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u49	Okay, I'll turn up 109m. I'd like to respond here mostly to Minister Plaga. I learned from the media that he would like to return the children to school under certain conditions, but what drives me crazy is to test the children in kindergarten so they have to wear a drape all the time in kindergarten, and even at noon rest, which I think is completely insane bullshit. Yesterday on the show You have the floor with Mrs. Jílková was the epidemiologist Chlívek, who says with a serious face that he has so many e-mails that schools don't open, schools don't, no, no. So I think it's about as valid as the Prime Minister's statement that he gets e-mails from businessmen who are better off when businesses are closed than when they're open, which is something similar. We're constantly being pushed into vaccines, vaccines, vaccines, like the vaccine is completely saved. Mr. Dufek - I don't know what his function is at all, something in that crisis crew, everyone following him, or Dušek - claims that the people who are after the second vaccination will definitely not have a difficult course of disease, which no one has shown any studies. After vaccinations, we have even demonstrated 2,288 cases of adverse events, since the start of vaccination 25 dead, 4 dead in the last week. It's handled by SÚKL. Apparently, these people had a lot of other diseases, so I don't understand why they were vaccinated at all. Hairdressing, pedicures - for old people, a person who is unable to cut his own nails on his feet after some hip or knee surgery, I don't see why we couldn't do those pedicures on the condition that these people don't really meet there, the workplaces will be disinfected, just those people are suffering, they are suffering. I can see it all by myself that the old people, and even the children, aren't able to cut the nails the way they're supposed to. So the kids don't go to school, all the clubs, all the kids get fat. I don't see why they can't practice in gymnastics out there. [[14.10 hours]] What's the reason that old people die in covid's department anyway? Well, because no one's treating anyone. Today you have a temperature of 37.5, you call your doctor and he says to you, "Don't come in here at all, make tea with honey, lemon, take acylpyrin, and when you have - automatically you're guided as a covido, whether you're doing or waiting a week for a test, you're already being led as a covido patient - and he'll tell you when it's hardest, then call your speedsters. So instead, when you had pneumonic problems back in the day, you just came to your doctor and he did his exam. If he felt something was wrong with his lungs, he sent him to X-rays. But it doesn't heal these days. You get to the hospital at the last stage, put you on oxygen, and if you're 80 and you're obese, you have diabetes, you just can't survive it. That's for sure. Why don't we use cheap tests from Professor Žďárský? Why are we buying expensive tests? Thousands of people are being tested in factories, and out of thousands of people, a few dozen are positive. And here some suggest that these cheap tests aren't conclusive, that we should use some more expensive ones. Here, according to the Supreme Audit Office, on 117 pages of their explanatory statement, there are so many mistakes that have been made... Why didn't anyone solve a pandemic plan for ten years? And the Prime Minister will say, well, they discovered America that we made a mistake, that the respirators, which are useless at all - are more or less anti-dust, will not prevent you from any virus, and you were shopping for 777 crowns. So what? That's how he bought the whole world. That's just not an explanation for me. Under the cover of an emergency, he's just robbing state property!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u50	Thank you. The Vice-President of the Valachová Club is registered with priority rights. [[He's asking for an disinfectant.]] Excuse me, I'm gonna need a quick surgery for a second. [[Cleaning of microphones and speaker counter is in progress.]] There. The counter shines beautifully and is yours, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, allow me to comment on the return of children to school. I believe that, regardless of the emergency situation or the pandemic rules, the return of children to schools should be an absolute national priority, and after a year we should turn around how we not only discuss this but also how we do it. In other words, there should be a clear timetable and scenario, and then everything else should be prepared and adapted to really implement this plan, and all teachers, teachers, directors, directors, parents, but also students, children and pupils themselves knew how to return to schools. I also think it is time to change our view of how or what we are actually seeking in terms of children's return to school. We can agree on this from a technical point of view, so that this return is gradual, of course. But we should say clearly on this return, except for college students, that is, from kindergarten to college students, when they can expect a return to attendance, that is, normal teaching. I think after a year of school failure, we owe it to them. There is nothing new and we agree that we need functional vaccination, testing, protective equipment and information for this. I think it's been parroted here for weeks and months. The problem is how it works. I commended here yesterday for the start of vaccination of our teachers and non-teachers in schools, and thus the preparation of the safe return of children, pupils and students to the presentation education, Ministry of Education. However, I did not know that the same day I would be confronted from the field with the information that some regions had suspended vaccination of teachers and teachers. Paradoxically on the same day, when we also announce the return - or I believe the early return - of children to schools. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in order for the children's return to school to actually succeed, clear communication is needed between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health, and although I have intercepted public information from the chief health officer today, which confirmed the date of 12 April, so it is essential that this date be made official, it is determined that it really applies, because without this date, as I have learned from the authorities of the regions, the captains will not adapt the question of priorityising vaccination according to that plan, which, let's say, through the headlines yesterday. That's what I'm giving here for example that we really need mutual communication, information and cooperation for the children's real return to schools. I really can't do this without it. I will be pleased if, in the context of the debate on the emergency situation, the ministers of health and education, as appropriate, are in place to tune in vaccinations, the dates of children's return to schools and mutual awareness of which years and how they will be boarding, and whether we are ready to train teachers and non-teachers of these early schools on return, so whether it will be really ready. The second thing I want to talk about is the safety of children and educators. On the school committee, my colleagues and I have repeatedly listened to the very well-founded opinions of Professor Dušek, and I must say that I am glad that over the last month, the school committee has arranged for what has not been possible for months, namely that we really have accurate school data on how the pandemic is facing pedagogical and non-teaching workers, how epidemic situations are going through our schools, as it is in terms of risk, from the point of view of children's age, and we have a clear task of hearing, by 31 March, as a school committee, how we will continue to deal with the safety and passage of epidemics by schools with epidemic situations in schools. The point is that the IHIS currently compares data, let's say, in a simple way - who infects who first, whether adult children or vice versa. And I think that these are the data that we need in the long run to ensure that we can safely return children to schools, when children stay in school and present classes in benches, actually manage and ensure a safe environment for both children and teachers. The next thing I want to draw attention to is that there have been repeated references to various studies about whether or not it is appropriate to have closed schools in terms of combating an epidemic and how effective it is, how it really causes the virus to dampen. It may be pointless for us to play experts here, but I want to say here that there are German, Danish and Italian studies at the moment that show exactly how schools are opened or closed, and it can be briefly said that they all agree that the factor of closed schools is not so crucial from the point of view of the presentation blackout in the education of children and the impact, of course, not only on the education of every child, but also on the future in terms of the condition of our country. I will therefore ask the relevant departments - both the Ministry of Health and Education - to take this into account because they have a professional and administrative apparatus to process these data after a year and to prepare specific solutions based on these data. For the last time, I would like to comment on the planned return of children to schools, which I really consider to be absolutely crucial to getting things back to normal. I think it's really a national priority, and it has nothing to do with the emergency situation or the pandemic situation. In short, we should put this in front of the parentheses, and we should do everything we can to get the children back into the class. It said here that we are calling for a return, and I am glad to have children to kindergarten schools, but since yesterday I have registered a number of concerns from the heads of kindergarten schools - if we continue to educate children in 15 groups, of course we will encounter problems with the number of teachers in kindergarten schools. Anyone who knows what this organization looks like, it's clear to him that it's true, and also, of course, the spatial capacity of kindergarten schools. Likewise, in the case of so-called annual rotation, it is certainly appropriate to fight for as many primary schools as possible to return, and this is right, on the other hand, to consider, and again, let's say, the expert response, but also the reaction of teachers, the reaction of parents to these, say, media messages show that, especially in the first, second and third classes, the concern is whether this will work 100% and is the right way to do it, if rather not to go through the renewal of full attendance and then gradually add, possibly in rotation, already older years. [[14.20 hours]] I think that given the annual fallout in attendance education, it is also appropriate to really put in a plan to give clear points and a timetable for high schoolers and college students. Especially college students are often forgotten, and it's a mistake. I think that, as legislators, after a year of pandemics and the loss of attendance classes, we should think of all the children, pupils and students, so they know when they'll be back in the benches. Finally, I will mention what the topic of the school committee is next week. I mention it here on purpose, so that you know that we are working on these matters as Members who are designated in the Expert Committee for this purpose. Of course, we communicate with the relevant departments from the point of view of the national plan to match the impacts in education from the point of view of COVID-19. I must say that here, as well as professional directors' associations and teaching associations, school unions, initiatives Let's return children to schools, Forum of Parents, Student Initiatives NE:BRZO or Czech High School Union, all these institutions support the creation of a big plan that would not only involve our schools in tutoring, in complementary activities, informal education, schools in nature, suburban camps, use of schools in nature, art schools. Of course, all this will cost money and we have a huge advantage as the Czech Republic, that we have dense networks of these extraordinary educational establishments and institutions - not only schools, we also have a dense network of youth organisations or sports divisions. Although it would be a big logistics event, it's something Germany and France managed to do in the summer. I believe that with the common forces of the resorts and us, we are able to prepare such a national plan for children, students and students. Of course, it won't be in a week, but we should work very hard on it. We should allocate national money because, in a half-billion-dollar budget deficit, I'm in vain looking for extraordinary money to deal with the impact of the covid in the education system, and I think that's what we owe children, pupils and students for that year. I am counting on the Members to join us in these requirements, and that together, when discussing any increase in the budget deficit this year or the following, I will return these things to our children from national money and to them from the point of view of what we owe them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u52	Thank you. The rapporteur came forward. The rapporteur shall have the right to be given the floor if he so requests. However, even you are subject to the limit, but you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u53	I feel the need to speak when I hear all those opinions coming out here. I don't want to discuss the fact that we're talking about Isoprinosine, which is a completely bad medicine. We've tested it, it doesn't work, it doesn't do anything but cysts in the liver. I don't want to talk about all the drugs you're talking about in the hospitals, we've been trying and we have, and we know what we can do. I just want to say that the only thing we have at the moment are drapes. No matter how you speak against them, it is the only defense that in some form stops the virus from entering the human organism. We have nothing else, and neither does anyone else. As a treatment, we actually have one vaccination, nothing else. All treatment is more or less symptomatic, and if anything is effective, it's corticosteroids, which is a special wound to the body. The next thing we have is testing, but testing with high-quality PCR preparations and equipment for the right instead of testing so as to avoid an error in antigen tests. And most importantly, we must once again have an active approach to the fight against this virus, the same as we had last year, that these people are actively preventing the infection from spreading among them. That's important, and then we won't need an emergency law, because the only reason he's here is to shut down the entire Republic. If we need to close something, let's close it locally as we do in the world and not vote for the emergency law. We don't need him for anything. All progress in the occurrence and treatment of this disease has nothing to do with the movement of people. As I have shown, even the numbers of people's movements are not enough to limit them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. Next up, Mr Nacher is entered into the debate, and Mr Rozvoral will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, nice Friday afternoon. It's kind of a not-so-convenient position. I'm the first coalition MP in a row without prior rights, so I have to make it in five minutes, unfortunately. I wanted to offer you an extension of the emergency situation from a different point of view, so I have to rephrase it all to make it, or I'll log in a second time. At this point - and you know it - I'm consistent with this. I don't care about two extremes. On the one hand, I don't care about criticism at all costs. Let me give you an example. And then it bothers me really, I have to say that fairly, even some of the measures that are more horizontal than being directed to where they should be directed. When it comes to criticism at all costs, I'm gonna tell a story here where I've had this kind of conversation with people. It was last summer when I said, "Let's take some precautions to keep the restaurants from closing, like limiting the number of two to one table, leaving a cell phone, some contact with each other, and so on. The reaction was: GDPR, I will not make contacts anywhere and so on. Three months have passed, the restaurant closed, and the same people bragged about how they were in Belgium's restaurant, where it worked perfectly - disinfection, everything. Of course, they had to hand over not only the cell phone number, but, if I remember correctly, the passport, the passport number to make contact with them. And all of a sudden, it's perfect. They came excited about Belgium, and there suddenly GDPR nothing. That means if we come up here with an idea, it's wrong, because it's with us. If it's from abroad, it's great, even if you put a lot more information there. I've got a whole series of examples here, I can't fit in those five minutes. I may have suggested the abolition of the blue zones here in Prague. If we want people to restrict social contact so they don't drive public transport, then, of course, what does that mean? To green politics. Why would we lure people into passenger transport now? Well, that's the criticism at all costs. On the other hand, some of these measures are really illogical and I think these typical Czech reactions, such legal formalism, dogmatism and, on the other hand, people looking for gaps at all costs. That's what we're world champions at. It doesn't really give me logic to have a drape out on the street. I understand that then it's about that there's definitely going to be a question from the Home Secretary about how this cop should handle it, how he's going to measure if this guy's two meters away. Well, that's exactly it. Based on Gaussův' curve, there will always be people here who will break something, but restricting all of them seems wrong to me. This brings me to something I would like to illustrate that it is actually not quite simple, and that is the case here with our two Free and Boyk MPs, who walk without a drape and without a respirator. Now, what is the right solution? They're being reprimanded here, they can be banished. If they're banished, it'll take all the cameras over there. If they're banished by force, it'll drown out everything. We can approve a protected account here, anything, and there'll be footage everywhere, and the next day it'll be over and over and over again, so it won't actually do the job. If nothing is done again, it's actually a bad example, because those people out there have to wear the drapes. So there's this plexiglass that you see there. Again, is that correct? Now it protects a fellow Pirate Member, Mikuláš Ferjenčík, but at the same time it can be a precedent that anyone - if I change my mind about not wearing it, I'll have plexiklo, and so on. And here in the House's leadership, all parties are represented. In other words, I'm saying... they're vice presidents, but you meet like club presidents, like all parties. We talked about it x-times. And all I want to do is illustrate the beautiful little space, not the whole Czech Republic - the little space here - that it doesn't have a positive solution in principle. Whatever happens in this regard, the applause doesn't get it, it always gets some negative publicity, some negative energy. So it's kind of a beautiful example that can be illustrated, visualized directly, I'd say. [[14.30 hours]] In conclusion, I have 10 seconds, I don't know how I should shorten it even more. Positively, I take this for myself, personally, as the last extension of the emergency situation, with the fact that for me the priority is that after Easter, children will really return to school. [[Your time.]] I take that as a basic priority for myself that doesn't go through a train. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u56	Thank you. The floor is Rozvoral, Mrs Maříková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me briefly to address today's point on the motion for approval of the Chamber of Deputies to extend the period of emergency. Like all members of the SPD movement, I will vote against the extension of the emergency situation, which we have repeatedly announced, voted several times in previous votes, and we have a number of strong and convincing reasons for this. The current government measures are not working quite effectively, and we therefore propose that the situation with the spread of coronavirus can be addressed with the help of other appropriate instruments and also to involve citizens as partners to address the situation on the basis of personal responsibility for their health. The Czech Republic must also stop being dependent on the decisions and actions of the institutions of the European Union. The government must secure and take care of risk groups of about 20 percent of the population, and others must let work, go to school, and allow them to live for compliance with the measures taken and fixed. For risk groups of citizens it is also necessary to provide free of charge respirators, vitamins, disinfectants and available medicines. We are told by a number of tradesmen who had to cease their activities because of government regulations, and the support of the state that was to come in the form of subsidy programs does not work quite well. In keeping with clear preventive measures, it is necessary to allow the operation of retailers and other groups of businessmen. We also promote the support of our own capacity for the production of our Czech protective and preventive equipment so that we do not depend on abroad. In this context, I will recall the conclusion of the SAO on the examination of state purchases of medical material in relation to the fight against coronavirus. At the beginning of the emergency period, the SAO received many questions and information from citizens, which resulted in significant differences in prices for which each ministry purchased protective equipment. This led the head of the SAO Miroslav Kala to redo the change of control plan approved by the SAO College in May last year. President Kala justified this by wanting to focus the control on the prices at which the state, through the various ministries, purchased protective equipment, compared these prices in an international context and also focused on crisis plans in connection with the spread of COVID-19 disease, by declaring an emergency and checking how exemptions from the Public Procurement Act were applied. This proposal for changes to the planned controls was defended by the NKÚ President Kala by claiming that even the crisis situation does not entitle anyone to behave inexorably, inefficiently and economically. The results of this audit action confirmed his concerns completely. The SAO audited purchases of medical and interior ministries' aids and materials from 1 January to 31 August 2020 in total of CZK 8.5 billion. The results of the audit were commented by NKÚ President Kala in words - I quote: "The state has shown that it has underestimated the preparation for the crisis and the problems in managing it. I'm not going to grade the ministry's procedure as a school, but I'm going to evaluate it verbally. Let me give you an example: So if we know that the respirators of FFP3 went from 60 crowns to 424 crowns per piece, but the Ministry bought lower order, i.e. FFP2, even 770 crowns per piece, it follows that the state certainly did not comply with the financial rules. But the price is just one of the things that the inspection has pointed out." End of quote. According to the SAO, the Ministry of Health and Home Affairs had their own shopping teams that did not cooperate. The SAO auditors also criticised the fact that the Ministry of Health did not update the pandemic plan from 2011 and the beginning of the epidemic and that state emergency supplies of equipment and materials were not changed at the same time. In an almost 100 - page control report, it is said that the state first slept in and then failed at many levels. There was chaos in the groceries and they were not transparent. Several of them have already been investigated by law enforcement authorities. The SPD movement takes control conclusions on the purchase of protective equipment at an emergency time of alarm. The state should always behave like a proper caretaker, since it treats all of us with money, including the emergency situation. The facts found suggest that illegal conduct took place, for which the ministers of health and the interior, who led their ministries at this time, are responsible. Ladies and gentlemen, the members of the SPD movement remain consistent in relation to the prolongation of the emergency situation and will vote against it in the same way as in the past. We cannot support an extension of the emergency state with such parameters as they are presented. In the long term, we point out that the government's measures taken are a policy of repression and of general prohibition by the government, which does not take into account the social, economic and, above all, social aspects of the lives of citizens in the Czech Republic, and we believe that the measures implemented in these areas are causing more damage than would have been the case without prolonging the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will ask Mrs Maříková, Mr Dvořák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u59	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will follow up on my previous speech - an evaluation of the data of the IHIS, by which the government is looking forward to prolonging the emergency situation and introducing its restrictions, the Olomouc mathematician and the mathematical modeling expert Dr. Tomáš Fürst, who claims: "I find that the material contains no evidence that the measures taken are working, but it contains quite enough evidence that this is not the case. The material is a showcase of manipulation, categorical claims without record, misunderstanding, misconception, coercion and dissemination of alarm messages." The only thing this material can serve is the basis for the immediate appeal of the Director of the UHIS. And that's what our government is based on, that's the data the government is defending its restrictions, it wants to prolong the emergency situation, and it claims that these measures are working. It advocates spending money on insurance companies and forces healthy people to test, while insurance companies run out of money to treat sick people. Every day we protest an incredible amount of money, while people who need orthopedic surgery suffer in pain. In the Karlovy Vary region I come from, people are waiting for an artificial joint replacement for four years. People are dying here to neglect our care. Many circuit doctors have stopped treating, treated only on the phone, some even have their phones up and down. If you have a temperature, you'll learn to take a test, take a paralene, and wait for your breathing to start to get sick, and then call an ambulance. Please, what is this? Do you really care about people's health? We were proud of our health system, but there is a conscious liquidation. I can't imagine facing a really dangerous disease under your leadership, such as an ebola, which has a mortality rate of 50 to 90 percent, while in the case of covid it is 1%. I am sorry for all the victims of the coronavirus, the victims who have fallen into your widespread fear, but I am also sorry for all the victims of cancer, cardiovascular diseases, neglected care that you do not talk about, all those who have taken their lives because of your decrees of desperation. I'm sorry about all the businessmen who've been building their business for years and never wanted anything from the state, but you guys ruined it in a few months. [[♪ You are ♪]] I'm sorry for all the citizens you've taken the year of your life, not the coronavirus, but you and your regulations. You're defending children in education that are guaranteed by the Constitution. You're preventing them from meeting their classmates, I'm sure they're starting to get fat and psychic. You're ruining their health by sitting on computers. Your government and governments were gradually destroying our health care before you, and our beds were still being disturbed. You haven't given a damn about paramedics for years, and now their understatement has backfired on all of us. Yes, the main problem is the lack of medical personnel and canceled beds, let's face it. You exceed your powers by forcing healthy people to test. You spend money on tests that in most cases show false positivity. You ignore the opinions of experts who tell you that antigenic tests are not suitable for field testing because they are used for the testing of symptom individuals and it is inefficient and costly. What about you? Again, you ignore the experts. The Prime Minister is lying to us repeatedly. On the one hand, they are fogging and claiming that we will not introduce any covid passports, and on the other hand, they are starting to wonder how it works in Israel, that they have a so-called green passport that allows vaccinated people to enter the opening of the economy and wants to cooperate with the Izraelec. You can't trust this government anymore. I firmly believe that this government will one day be criminally responsible for what it has done to people and this country. I ask you, Government, to end restrictions, to stop restricting business and the freedom of our citizens. Your government shouldn't have uncontrollable power for another minute, and the emergency situation should be terminated immediately. And you, colleagues, especially on your left, who are considering supporting the extension of the emergency situation, please think about who and what you want to support here and realize that you represent the citizens of this country here, not those who have enjoyed uncontrollable power. [[14.40 hours]] Finally, please allow me to thank the two mentioned mathematicians Tomáš Fürst and Karel Janečka for evaluating the data of the UHIS, because it is very good that independent experts are also concerned about this and, above all, are not afraid to say their opinion. And there aren't enough people like that today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u60	Thank you. Mr Dvořák has the floor. Mr. Hrnčíř will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u61	Hello. Mr President, Mr absent Minister of Health, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words as a doctor and a citizen, but also as a member of the SPD. When we compare the emergency situation in February of this year, for example, there were 70 infected in my city. As the emergency situation persists, these numbers have increased up to 4 times to 266. I didn't see any extreme violations, but rather fatigue, the frustration of citizens from the constant requests of the government to prolong the emergency situation, or his self-proclaimed slogan, so we can hold out for a while. But we are holding and holding, but we see how government measures are not working, and despite the year-long restrictions, we have only come from drapes to respirators, restrictions on the mobility of citizens who are not fully controlled across the Czech Republic. And despite strict restrictions, the numbers of the infected are growing. Why strict restrictions when they obviously don't work? They just limit people's lives. The SPD has long said that flat bans are not a solution, and we see it today and daily. We want to protect our citizens. To those who want to be vaccinated, let them have a choice of vaccine and those who do not want to be dehonested. However, we can see how the dehonestation of these very citizens is presented in practice by the so-called salami method, such as covid by passport. Many of our citizens who want to inoculate themselves are waiting for vaccinations in a long line, while the government has refused to test Sputnik V and is making excuses for EMA. The legislation of the Czech Republic allows SÚKLu the possibility of testing drugs to us imported. Why isn't it? Why not use the option to increase the number of vaccines available. Why just excuses? Therefore, the SPD will not support further extension of the emergency situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Vice-President Okamura has applied with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I would follow up on my opening speech, when I made it clear that the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, as it is fully confirmed that surface measures are not the solution and lockdown is not the way. What I want to say, however, is the vote that took place here a moment ago, the vote on limiting speaking time, because we in the SPD wanted to discuss it here, because we are opposed to extending the emergency situation and, of course, we wanted to do everything we could to ensure that the emergency situation is not prolonged. But you, Members of the other parties, mostly, have rejected our opportunity here, you have rejected the possibility of our MP club so that our Members can repeatedly go on microphones and discuss with unlimited time. That means we were against it. And I must say that I certainly do not consider it democratic and right. This means that you have made it impossible for our Members to express themselves democratically here. And I must say that I really consider this a problem that we will have to think about in the future, what to do with it, because we do not like this, because in my opinion, most citizens of the Czech Republic do not want to prolong the emergency situation and do not want to think about it, and we are clearly saying that we are repeatedly opposed to extending the emergency situation. But neither you nor us, members of the SPD, who are elected 540 000 citizens of the Czech Republic, have prevented us from expressing ourselves here freely and in sufficient time. On the basis of this vote, which you have voted mostly here, ordinary Members are limited to two or five minutes. For only two or five minutes! That means our Members had their speeches prepared, wanted to discuss the situation in more detail, they wanted to ask the Minister of Health Blatný about a lot of details to answer us here, but by making a majority vote here, and even some of the Members who would like to play against the emergency situation, so they didn't even show up in the hall, and they weren't even here to help us with the vote, so you limited our scope for discussion. As you know, we have a chance, because we just want to prevent this emergency extension, so we were ready to discuss this very long, and we only have two options how to... And I'm saying it straight. We were really prepared to drag this discussion through here to prevent the emergency situation from being prolonged here today. And we have only two options under the Rules of Procedure, the SPD, as at this time, proven and evidently for many reasons, basically the only real opposition in the House. Either we can talk and ask questions and discuss things here for a long time, or we can take a two-hour break as an MP at a meeting of the MP's club. You took the first option away from us because you limited our MPs so that they could ask us so that we could, of course, block here, I'm going to say it frankly, block it to prolong the emergency situation. We wanted to block it. We wanted to block this meeting so it wouldn't prolong the emergency. I'm gonna be straight with you. And you, by voting here, the rest of you, have made it impossible for us to have a substantive discussion, even by asking the Minister to answer us here, and Minister Schillerová, Mr. Education Minister Plaga, that's your democracy. That's how you listen to the voice of citizens who do not wish to prolong the emergency. That's the situation now. So you took the first option away from us, and of course we only have the possibility of a two-hour break. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Yes, members of the YES nod here. I guess that's more of a drawing to what I'm saying. It is evident that, despite all general government measures, the Czech Republic is statistically one of the worst countries in the world. It is unacceptable for us that citizens cannot travel between the counties to their relatives, moreover at the time of the coming Easter holidays. Again, only risk groups need to be protected, which should be provided by the State with freely available medicines, vitamins, disinfectants, drapes and respirators. Again, I say we need to open retail and services, including gastronomic services... [[Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, as rapporteur, sits at the newsstand and drums his fingers on the table.]] Ambassador, please don't tap this table here. It's very disturbing to me. [[Fun in the hall. The rapporteur apologizes.]] I accept your apology. There is a need to open retail and services, including gastronomic services, and pupils must only return to schools under basic measures. Citizens need to be allowed to live and not let them live. Let's fight the virus, not the people! And for the SPD, we're really not ashamed that we're the only party here in Parliament that clearly says that lockdown isn't a solution, and the measures aren't a road. These words of ours are getting more and more confirmed. While patients in overloaded hospitals lack oxygen because of lack of oxygen bottles, the Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček of the ČSSD issued a tender for more than 100 million crowns in January for the purchase of water cannons for police officers against demonstrators. This is unbelievable! [[14.50 hours]] Unfortunately, this government does not have a strategy, has lost confidence in the majority of the public and has full responsibility for the current situation. The emergence of a government of experts is urgently needed. And for myself, it is really incredible how Prime Minister Andrej Babiš insists on not leaving the government the three most I would say to the compromised ministers who have already shown their incompetence, and he is Minister of Health Jan Blatný, Minister of Foreign Affairs Petříček and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. Because the government must realise that the problem of the whole situation is essentially that the government has lost confidence, it has lost citizens' trust. But, government, you realize that this country does not belong to you, the government, this country belongs to 10 million citizens of the Czech Republic, so even though many of you would like to exchange citizens, it is not possible. You can only gain confidence by exchanging ministers and government officials and reconstructing the government to regain confidence, and Prime Minister Andrej Babiš does not understand this, he continues to keep the compromised ministers in place, and citizens' distrust and frustration continues to deepen. As for the children's return to school, it should be as soon as possible, and it should have been a long time ago. It is important that children receive regular education. There is talk of a rotational system of teaching, but perhaps we all know that it is not suitable for, for example, the first level of primary schools. There, of course, is neither suitable nor distance teaching. The kids need to go to school. We have a whole year here, which is basically not educated, which will have far-reaching social consequences. The situation in education is due to the fact that Minister of Health Blatný and Minister of the Interior Hamáček, but also other predecessors of Minister Blatný, to be fair, Minister Vojtěch and Minister Prymula, simply could not handle the situation. So I wouldn't even honestly blame the Minister of Education Plaga, because it's based on what these two ministers are essentially going to give him. So there's the responsibility, there's the problem. And now more problems are coming upon us, citizens of the Czech Republic. On 17 March, the European Union presented the introduction of a so-called covid passport, which is intended to make unvacated citizens of the second category. The SPD movement makes it clear that we reject the Covid passport of the European Union, as it discriminates and segregates unvaccured citizens, and I am not even talking about the situation, because the SPD promotes voluntary vaccination and voluntary testing, this needs to be stressed, and user-friendly testing, not under the threat of repression and pressure. I am not even talking about the fact that the government is unable to provide for those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily, or the amount of vaccines that the European Union has promised, and instead of acting directly, as some other countries have done, with suppliers, it has naively relied on the promises of the European Commission headed by Commissioner Ursula von der Leyenová, and these promises have not been fulfilled. As a result, of course, even to those citizens who want to be vaccinated voluntarily - and I stress once again that the SPD is promoting voluntary vaccination, and we reject discrimination against those who do not want to be vaccinated voluntarily - that will not even ensure vaccination and at the same time remain silent as the European Union is promoting the introduction of a so-called passport covid. He's clearly contradicting himself, he's already contradicting himself. It is unacceptable for the SPD to determine the content of this covid passport and to make it subject, inter alia, to the type of vaccines used. The contents of the covid passport are to be very sensitive data about its holder and will also allow users of smartphones to monitor their movement in the style of a big brother. At the same time, Covid's passport does not address the fact that its holder may be a carrier of coronavirus, whether or not it has been tested or vaccinated. Covid's passport must also not be discriminatory and segregating for un-inoculated, and therefore the SPD rejects its introduction in this form. Inoculation must be voluntary and non-inoculated citizens must not be restricted by their civil liberties. At the same time, I haven't mentioned another update of this week. On 25 March, as you know, the Constitutional Court had a complaint on the table, or it was discussing the abolition of the February government resolution on an emergency situation, because by the time the Constitutional Court got to it, the government had already declared another emergency, so it was about the February one. The Constitutional Court clearly indicated in its decision that if the House disagrees with the extension of the emergency situation, it cannot be circumvented and re-proclaimed at the request of the authorities, and that is the situation that occurred in February. So let's really say what that means, in plain words. The government is declaring an emergency state unconstitutional, and it's not moving anybody around. In fact, the appeal to the Constitutional Court is no longer working. Is it possible, in what state, in what democracy, in what stages of democracy in quotation marks did we start to find ourselves in the Czech Republic? And the only one who's responding is the SPD, everyone else is okay with it and quiet. So what will be limited next time? But we shouldn't be silent about that, because one day it might affect you. Even you, once you are not in the Chamber of Deputies, can happen to you that someone will restrict your civil liberties, and then you will just watch, and alone, when you were here, you did not prevent it and kept quiet. But we, like the SPD, do not shut up, we have the courage to tell the truth, even though it is often uncomfortable for many people and it is hard to listen to them. But I have to say that time, in the vast majority, has given us the truth, and in the rest of it, I hope that it will still be true. So it's a big problem, the current government meeting. Of course, the problem is, and I blame the long-term confusion of government measures. And I'm not gonna go into history for long. 17. 3., which means last week, after the meeting of the Central Crisis Staff, Hamáček, the Minister of Interior, said that the new Chief Hygiene Pavla Svrčinová will be preparing modifications to the antiepidemic system PES by next week, which is this week. Well, 24 this week. 3. said in an interview for Czech Television the Chief Hygiene, just Pavla Svrčinová, that the new antiepidemic system of PES will be finished according to her first after Easter. Again, within a few days, completely conflicting information. But I'll give you one more example: 19. 3., again last week, Minister of Health Jan Blatný announced that tens of thousands of single-dose vaccines from Johnson & Johnson will be delivered to the Czech Republic in April. And after four days, 23. 3., this week, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš told Radio Station Frequency 1 that these vaccines will not arrive in the Czech Republic in April from Johnson & Johnson. In the long run, I point out this problem, which no one else in the media has ever stopped, that one of the major problems of the government is - and that is not some offensive criticism - that you are not speaking with one voice. [[15.00 hours]] As many of you know, I've been in the media and PR for 20 years. Even at a time when I volunteered for free as a spokesperson for the Association of Czech Travel Agencies and spoke for more than 200 travel agencies and agencies on the Czech market, which I'm sure many spectators remember, the first thing I did was to ask colleagues - and they were companies that had million-dollar turnovers, up to companies with billion-dollar turnovers and capable, confident owners, all those companies - and I said: Let's speak with one voice. That means, let's always wait until we have the final position. Let's wait until we have some legal basis, because we can't confuse the public. Because I have spoken, defended consumer rights, I have also explained to them what to do when the trip is cancelled or when the trip is cancelled or when something happens abroad. And even then - and I was a volunteer, I did it for free - so I realized 15 or 20 years ago that it was necessary for the public to have one correct information, supported, and that every day someone would not say something different, because it would cause total chaos. And as you know, tours are bought by several million people a year in the Czech Republic, so it may be remotely, as far as the number of citizens are concerned, a very remote number of citizens involved in this issue are concerned, something similar to that of communicating the problem that we are dealing with here. And it was because I pushed through and quite simply, and I was almost 20 years younger, so it was clear to me at that time and I pushed along with my colleagues, with excellent colleagues from the association, that we would speak with one voice, so we gained public confidence and people would always like to hear or listen to what rights they had when they bought a tour, what travel obligations are, what mutual rights and obligations are and what to do when something happens. And now 20 years have passed, behind me are professional politicians, ministers of the government with thousands of officials, with PR teams, with press unions, with directors of press unions with cars, with hundreds of thousands of salaries, and even after a year of challenging you to do so, at least to this little detail, to learn how to communicate with one voice and not catch up with anyone who says anything before. And that creates this incredible chaos, and it has huge economic, social and health implications, so unfortunately, you have not learned to this day either. While I did not undertake any PR course, I was self-taught, but I suspect it will be somewhere in the basic textbook of media communication, that it should be communicated in this way to make it clear, clear, and mainly uniform. He won't let me mention one thing that, in my opinion, woke up within the atmosphere in society - because citizens really can't stand it anymore, the cup of patience overflowed - so I'll mention the event that happened in Plzeň, when the master, the citizen, the owner of the house, was ambushed by a robber at night and shot him in the chest in self-defense at night with a legally held gun and shot him. I can't keep staring at what's going on here in the Czech Republic. That means a decent citizen in his own property must be afraid of defending a convicted murderer who was released for brutal murder, and now this citizen is being caught up in whether the defense was adequate. But you, my colleagues, are also to blame, because for two years now there is the law of the SPD, which I would call "my house, my castle." You've been blocking him for two years! [[raised voice]] When the SPD here proposed an amendment to the law, where we propose to strengthen the institute of necessary defense, that means that when a person overcomes an obstacle, that means some robber, a criminal thief, that means - we write it there - maybe it opens the window, breaks the lock, breaks the door, and raises fears with the owner who is at home, or with the residents who are at risk of life, so in such a case the one who defends himself will always be in the right. He'll be right. And you're blocking this place, and it's a typical case, because how does a poor person sleep at home and is he or his family, wife, kids, ambushed by someone at night, how is he supposed to think about what adequate defense is? I mean, that's crazy how you guys keep the law around here. And at the same time, you're blocking the good laws of the SPD. It didn't have to happen here at all. Now to worry about what citizens read and also write to me - citizens are of course more concerned now that there is much to be said about this adequate defense, that they are always being judged - so now people are afraid to defend themselves at home to some robber or thief, so that they happen to resist disproportionately. I challenge you, accept the SPD law, let's take sides with decent people, because for the SPD, a decent person comes first. And because again, if he was going to defend himself with a gun - and how is that attacked man supposed to know at home at night when he's being ambushed, if by any chance he has a karate champion standing against him in the dark? It doesn't matter if he has a gun in his hand or not! [[raised voice]] It doesn't matter! When someone breaks in, breaks in the door, kicks in the door, breaks the lock, opens the window, I just want to be in the right, I want to defend myself, and I want to make sure that I stand up for myself. So this is one actual case that I've been very, very uncomfortable with, of course, I'm not surprised again - I know what the laws are here, we're trying to change them, but again I needed to tell you what you've done here by blocking the SPD law, because it didn't have to happen this far at all, because we need to set the situation so that the thief, the criminal, should just be afraid. To be afraid, it's important that he's afraid to break in somewhere so he's afraid to pry the lock, kick the door into some foreign property, so he knows there's no way the law's gonna be on his side. So thank you for your attention, and our SPD position has been clear from the outset: as I said, the SPD will not support the extension of the emergency situation, as it is fully confirmed that the area measures are not the solution, lockdown is not the way and we say clearly: let us fight the virus, not the people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u64	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we will continue by speaking with the priority right of the President of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Pirate Club. The current situation is that we have a lockdown, we're dropping the number of infected, which is good, and it shows that strict measures also work to slow down the spread of a more contagious British mutation. From the point of view of the number of infected, we are now approximately in a situation where we were before the release last December. We still have a full ICU, we're still in the top five countries in the world on the seven-day average of newly infected per day. It is 750 people per million inhabitants, i.e. approximately 750 people a day in Prague or the region. So that's the number detected, the actual actual number will be slightly lower, because the detection is a few days late. The source of this data is statistics on Our World In Data, which is based on the most prestigious journals Nature and Science, so everyone can verify it. All numbers are per million inhabitants to be comparable. But the 750 people infected per million are still the second worst in Europe, the worse they are in Estonia alone. Most of our neighborhood states have more than twice as good numbers. The numbers detected haven't even reached the end of January. In the overall balance, we have 80 percent more dead than the average of the European Union, and 2.5 times more dead than in Germany, again per million inhabitants. To understand the severity of the situation you can go to the Old Town Square. Compared to last autumn, there is one advantage, and that is that there is more immunity in society, part of vaccination and part of the prom. But it's still not enough for us to relax and meet at Easter right away. On the one hand, it cannot be criticised that we are the worst in Europe, and on the other hand, propose that we be able to deal with massive dispersal. That would only lead to another wave. Inoculation is still not sufficient to ensure that it is safe to move into a mode of milder measures. We've been burned once before when we've been relaxing prematurely. I certainly do not want to stand up for governments, just to define myself against those who propose to solve the current problem by loosening up. On the contrary, the government is fully responsible for the situation we have here because it is the result of their decision. [[15.10 hours]] It started last fall when there was no preparation for the second wave. The drapes were jammed and restaurants opened before Christmas. We've been on the swing ever since. We pirát warned last June that it should be armed on a second wave, and despite the government, we pushed it here in the House, but the government ignored it and the Prime Minister called it haunting. Then we called for stricter measures in the fall, but we got it going, so we got to Europe's forehead. So it is undoubtedly the government's political responsibility that covid is the worst in Europe. And then came the British mutation, and there was nothing left to do with the measures if we wanted to avoid another even bigger wave that would kill thousands and thousands of people. So if this ruling coalition led us to today's conditions, it is extremely fair that this coalition should also vote for an extension of the emergency situation in the composition in which it bears full responsibility for the situation, namely YES, ČSSD and KSČM. According to the announced decision by the Communists, there will be votes. Just please, let us not link this step to terms such as Sputnik or Russia's participation in the Dukovany project. If there were a crisis that there would be no votes to extend to 14 days, it would be another one of a number of government crises. But the situation is too serious to deal with. In that case, we are ready to suspend the vote and discuss how to prepare an emergency solution for Easter. If we were to discuss this, it would not be because of the government, but because of the health professionals and the health system that citizens are counting on, because of the captains who are dealing with the crisis in the regions and the people. Nor would we allow absurd vaccination requirements for unregistered Sputnik vaccine to be implemented and for inviting Russia into the tender for the construction of the new Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant block. I believe that after Easter, the pandemic will be under control and it will be possible to switch to a more moderate regime of the pandemic law. I remind you that it was the pirát who came forward with the proposal in January that we should not have an endless emergency here. In this proposal, we pirát pushed through mandatory testing, without which the current numbers would be far worse, because it would not be possible to extract and isolate the infected from the company. All these steps will allow us to get the pandemic under control and get out of this endless marasm as quickly as possible. When I asked a friend from the Zlin Region, he said to me, "Do it so we can get out of this as quickly as possible!" And the solution presented above is precisely what will prevent another wave and sneaking collapse of health care, will bring time for the necessary vaccination of the population and also time to get numbers to the borders at which tracking works more reliably, which is a standard, traditional and functional way of solving the pandemic, if it doesn't blow up, it doesn't get to the numbers we have now. Just as last June we warned about the second wave in the House resolution, today we are coming up with a motion for a resolution, and I ask that we do not take it lightly. It is a proposal presented by the coalition of the Pirates and the starosta. It focuses on adequate compensation so that those who are under the burden of managing a whole range of measures are motivated to endure and that, just before the end and the whole situation is resolved, other companies do not fail. It also focuses on rationalising measures and massive vaccinations. I therefore submit a motion for an accompanying resolution, which reads as follows: " First, the House calls on the Government to clarify why it did not order all available vaccines from the joint purchase of the EU-mediated by 7 April 2021.' I think the public has a right to know that information. "Secondly, it asks the Government of the Czech Republic to negotiate with countries that have surplus vaccines approved for the European market for the supply of vaccines against covid to the Czech Republic." Many states, especially the United States of America, have already announced that they have surplus vaccines on their market and will be able to supply these vaccines to countries that are the worst affected by the epidemic, including the Czech Republic. "Third, the House calls on the government to focus on the preparation of sufficient vaccine capacity." After all, the number will increase, let's not really underestimate it, and let's have the capacity ready. I know we're working on it, but I don't want it to end as the last time we were supposed to increase the tracking capacity in the fall and it took a few months for nothing longer. In fact, these few months would be a great help to manage the situation. "Furthermore, it calls on the Government to draw up and present to the public an overview of the quality of recommended antigen test sets based on available scientific literature, with a deadline of 7 April 2021." The point is that everyone has simple information about what the percentage of test failure is. To take people seriously that when they have a negative antigen test, it does not always guarantee that they do not really have a viral charge that can continue to spread. "Five asks the government to make the following changes in government aid to entrepreneurs." These are the so-called compensations: " (a) Reduce the condition of decreasing sales from current 50 per cent to 40 per cent when entering the COVID program - Uncovered costs and COVID 2021. (b) Increase the upper limit of the aid granted to the COVID programme - Uncovered costs to 70 per cent of fixed costs. (c) Increase the upper limit of the aid granted to the COVID programme - Uncovered costs to 90 per cent of fixed costs for micro-enterprises. (d) Increase the aid granted for the COVID 2021 programme to CZK 800 per employee.' I think we all realize that if entrepreneurs are not motivated to follow these measures, there will logically be violations. It would not even be fair to ask them to sacrifice the entire society in a situation where the government is completely undercompensating them for losing their livelihoods that they have sometimes built for years. "For the sixth time, the House asks the Government to ensure the following rationalisation of the measures: (a) It has allowed farmers' markets to take place on condition that the organiser ensures compliance with appropriate sanitary measures, thereby ensuring a level playing field between farmers' markets and supermarkets." So it's open-air markets. " (b) It has enabled individual sport of children and youth with the participation of the coach. (c) It allowed travel to its own recreational object. (d) Action on outdoor breathing protection in the built-up area to rationalise in order to promote a higher level of compliance.' The seventh point of the motion for a resolution is that "the House recommends to the Government that crisis services and medical professionals be strengthened in the area of mental burden management, such as clinician psychologists, child psychiatrists." The point is that the lockdown that we have here is undoubtedly having serious impacts on the population and its health, especially mental status, but perhaps also restrictions on sports and the like, so it is necessary for the government to respond to this by other measures. On the eighth point, we propose that "The Chamber of Deputies should ask the Ministry of Health for permission to provide spa rehabilitation care to self-payers." And on the ninth point, we call on the government to "work up and submit a comprehensive plan to comment on the return of students and pupils to schools." Although we may disagree on the deadline for extending the emergency situation, I would like to ask you to vote on accompanying measures in substance, not by party jurisdiction, because it is not the success of individual parties, but it is a measure that can contribute to managing the current and perhaps the final phase of the coronavirus crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u66	That was Jakub Michálek with a point of fact. Vice-President of the KSČM Leo Luzar Club with priority rights. Furthermore, Minister of Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u67	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again, I have to reject the false assumption that was made here this morning about some possible trade between the emergency situation and the Dukovany. I fundamentally reject this for the KSČM club, and I can clearly say here that the KSČM would never go down to trading human lives. Therefore, I beg this to be mentioned in any context. It's hard to disprove and to prove a lie that's been told. [[15.20 hours]] Just so you know. We asked our authority for this information before the Minister spoke, including for us with a revolutionary news regarding Dukovan. But it's hard to disprove the lies that have been told here and are already running in the media. So I beg for the KSČM club to continue to use it because it is not true and it is a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u69	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, hello, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I have to admit that my ears have been ringing all afternoon, especially during the performance of my colleague Okamura here. I'm getting used to being his favorite minister, very often taking me to his mouth here. They even noticed it on social media, and they're saying, quote, "The Okamura runs into this Hamáček like he ate his dog." [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So I want to assure everyone that I didn't consume any of Mr. Vice President's pets, I'm just doing my job. And that debate today, when we sum it up - the honor of exceptions - was more or less a struggle for a confused elector among the extreme part of the Czech political scene. I've been wondering why my colleague Okamura has been working so hard, so he's sharpening his arguments. It's about the pike in the pond. Those two gentlemen without a drape are probably more sexy for the SPD electrorate, and I understand, of course, that it makes Okamura nervous, but he should not burden the Chamber of Deputies by fighting one part of the right-wing spectrum. And if he decides to do things like that, he could at least try to tell the truth. Of all the crap that fell here, at least one. I never said there was a shortage of oxygen bottles. Oxygen bottles are enough, even because the Central Crisis Staff spends a year on it, and the supply of oxygen is one of our priorities. It was also us who recommended buying reducing valves so that the old bottles could be used if necessary, so, Mr Vice-President, through the President, at least please tell the truth. We were merely pointing out this, and it was at the request of one of the major suppliers that they were unable to supply oxygen both to hospitals and to industry, and they asked us to apply the priority supply regulation through the crisis law, and that is what we did. So please don't lie that Hamáček here is saying something about no oxygen bottles, and he's buying water cannons. That's an attempt to set things straight, and I hope it's recorded. Otherwise, about what's been going on here, complaints that you need more than five minutes. I don't know, I think in those five minutes, what you're all saying over and over, you can read, and the next five minutes, and the next ten minutes is just a repeat of the same thing. I confess that I have no idea why there are some Aeronets and Sputniks and AC24 in the Czech Republic and all these disinformation servers. I think we're gonna be fine with what the MPs here are doing for the SPD and those two non-inclusions, with the occasional support of a colleague from Tricolore. So I think the disinformers might wrap it up and move on, because what's here in parliament is enough to spread disinformation and nonsense. I hope we move on to the end and to the decision. I want to thank all those who have performed here in a matter of fact, who have performed here knowing that the Czech Republic, however difficult it has been, now it seems that, thanks to government measures, we are getting out of the worst, the number has turned, the number of newly infected is falling. Which, I understand, maybe makes your colleagues nervous because they lose the subject, hopefully very quickly. And I believe that together we will make it to the end and a combination of these measures, moderate and reasonable relaxation and vaccination, so that the summer will be different and that the worst moments will be remembered. So I want to thank all those who approach this constructively. Of course, I respect different political views. What I don't respect is lies and misinformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u70	I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jan Hamáček. We will continue with Mr Lubomír Volný's speech. [[The Free Member comes without a drape.]] Ambassador, I will also remind you that you do not comply with the Government's regulations on protective aids. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, Mr President. The introduction of today's meeting on the extension of the emergency situation was carried out in a rather interesting and comical spirit, when the Prime Minister began his appearance in the House by advertising an experimental drug for CZK 24,000 for one dose, which we had already learned from experts that it was intended only for the lightest cases. It is a medicine that no one wants, neither patients nor doctors, where the Prime Minister refused to answer the direct question of his colleague Marian Bojek, whether we will definitely get the cure or whether we will get the placebo. He refused to answer that, so we still don't know, as with Remdesivir, whether we buy drugs for the 24,000 crowns or buy placebo. The exact same thing was when today, just in hockey style, he was doing a live commercial for another experimental drug - again without proven side effects, again for tens of thousands of crowns per dose, and the Prime Minister said the unbelievable thing about it was that there was no time for studies, he did not need any studies, because the drug allegedly helped one 74-year-old person. [[with laughter]] So if we're here to say that Isoprinosine was saving lives, that he was sold several hundred thousand doses, that in the last maybe three quarters of the year, not one side effect of Isoprinosin has been reported to the official authorities, then this is where the colleague comes out and says - I think he's causing... It's just an alarm report - that it causes cysts on the liver or on the kidneys. I don't know, I'm sorry, I forgot what you said, Professor, through Mr President. Isoprinosine is one of the safest drugs, it is also on the list Essential Medicine WHO, as well as Ivermectin, and there have been no reports of side effects. On the contrary, it has been actively and very, very successfully used, it has now been sold hundreds of thousands of doses, and it is clearly one of the reasons why we are the best in mortality, at least in Europe, if I remember correctly the latest data from the article by Professor Beran, which you so mediately trampled into the country, as well as all opponents. And Minister Blatný here boasts that everyone has the same opinion, 18 out of 16 and 12 out of 12. Well, of course, when all those who disagree with you, you media-destruct, stomped into the ground, and you wouldn't let them get out. And when someone else has an opinion, you arrange for that opinion to be professionally liquidated, as in the case of the fired chief of the border in Moravia. Of course, then no one else has an opinion. Although it reminds a trošičku bit of communist cleansing in the 1950s, of course, that seems to be deceiving and certainly not true. So we, by the premiere, are selling drugs for tens of thousands live here, instead of buying drugs in the order of 10 crowns or 100 crowns, instead of shipping a plane to Bangladesh, where we have prepared for us the pre-negotiated tons and tons and tons of Ivermectin, which is also on the list of basic medicines, or medical organizations, because it has an unprecedented security protocol, a completely slim, slim percentage of side effects. And this drug, even if it doesn't help someone with a covid, like there are studies with thousands and thousands and thousands of patients, that it helps, doesn't have a chance to hurt. All the information we've heard here before is nonsense because it's enough 0.2 milligrams per kilogram of weight, no hundreds of milligrams or grams. And that's why nothing works here, in this country here, should work for the citizens of this country. Because this government that doesn't sit behind me just doesn't want it to work because this government needs an emergency. This government has turned into a covid mafia, and the covid mafia, as the Supreme Audit Office has already proven, makes billions and billions of taxpayers' money on the covid business. [[with a smile]] And another billion, hundreds of billions are on the way because we've approved budgets with hundreds of billions of deficits. This money will be very well taken care of in the bank accounts of the covid mafia, and that's why it's always an emergency. That's the only reason. [[15.30 hours]] My colleague Nacher says he would like a more optimistic solution. And we've got him. All we have to do is look in Sweden. Soon there will be a live broadcast of interviews with people from Sweden on my Facebook channel, how they live there today and why. It would be enough to look into Belarus and realize that the more restrictions, the more sick, the more restrictions, the worse economic indicators, instead of taking targeted measures, we paid people for voluntary isolation and opened the economy to those who are not from a vulnerable group or are simply not afraid, so we wiped out both health and society and the economy. And it's all the government's fault that turned into one big covid mafia. Thank you. Another show in five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u72	You have the option of the second five minutes, Mr. Ambassador, because a colleague of the Hrnčíř, who was among you, checked out and reassigned. You've got your next five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u73	This suits me very much in its essence, because I wanted to dedicate the second part of my speech to my colleagues from the SPD, given the situation regarding the vote to prolong the emergency situation. Yesterday, I publicly called on Tomio Okamura and Radim Fiala to block the House's negotiations because they have priority rights. This information came to my colleagues at the SPD, and a moment ago, you witnessed Tomio Okamura's attempt at what's called obstruction, except there's one problem. At the beginning of his speech, we were attacked by two non-attached Members who followed the House meeting from the office, because there is a clear distribution of forces and a vote on whether or not the time of the Members' meetings would be shortened was with a difference of more votes than we could influence. However, he forgot that in the last vote on whether or not the vote of Members will be shortened, all of you SPD Members, including Radim Fiala, and Tomio Okamura, voted in favour, so you could have forgiven the hypocritical insert today. It's in the tapestry, it's in the voting logs. Yes, you voted for what Tomio was crying about today. However, since I have the second act in a row, I would also comment that the government not only systematically takes counter-constitutional measures - unconstitutional, it has been repeatedly stated by both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Administrative Court. But unfortunately, I'm concerned about the state of justice in the Czech Republic that when the Constitutional Court declares that something was unconstitutional, illegal, it doesn't cancel, and that's a huge problem that we have here, that when the Supreme Administrative Court finds out that something is unconstitutional, it doesn't act and commands only one school to open up a teaching for one pupil. It's just incomprehensible that we have judges who really know that the government that's not behind me is adopting unconstitutional regulations, and no one will do anything about it, not even the Constitutional Court. How deeply this is affected by the fact that the president of our Constitutional Court is a communist who intends to run for president, I will leave that to his future possible voters. The government is adopting unconstitutional regulations. He buys as a mafia for billions of overpriced respirators, experimental drugs that can kill someone or maybe just placebo, slows down proven treatment, rejects any debate and steals protective equipment - steals protective equipment, and then out of court pays 26 million as compensation. Amazing! [[To entertaining Members.]] Please, gentlemen, don't disturb me. Hamáček, Minister of the Interior from a party that is no longer meant to exist because it should have been executed long ago and it should no longer exist because it has no right to exist for several years, was simply sentenced to execution, to destruction, to destruction, so here it simply steals someone's protective equipment and then pays 26 million compensation for it. That's almost incredible. Mr. Mgr's cheap non-invasive tests. Emanuel Žďárský, CSc, for 50 crowns non-invasive tests, this covide mob refused and will again force our children to stick a stick in their noses for who knows how many hundreds of crowns. It is the work of a Czech scientist at the Nobelův Prize level, and not only does the government hide it, the opposition is hiding it, it doesn't talk about it at all, the Czech media is hiding it by mainstream media, the Czech media is hiding it by public law. Here's the genius Czech scientist who invented the tests, gives the technology to the state for free, and that one test goes to 50 crowns. And maybe some of you don't even know about it because you look at me like you've heard about it for the first time in your life. Oh, and for Mr. Zaorálek. Yes, Mr. Zaorálek, when it comes to breaking bread, our allies have always betrayed us, betrayed us and betrayed us. And yet here I dare to predict the future. This is where the numbers are going down, Mr. Babiš and Hamáček will give people a vacation, and after the election, they will close this republic in an endless lockdown. And that is exactly what will happen if voters in the Czech Republic do not react differently than usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u74	Mr. Ambassador, your time for the show is over. Now, in front of my colleague Hrnčíř with priority rights, the Minister of the Interior, but I will ask for a service to ensure disinfection. Thank you. The Minister of the Interior and Deputy Prime Minister Jan Hamáček will now speak with priority rights, and Minister Lubomír Zaorálek also reports with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u75	I'm just very brief. It's not worth arguing with demagogues, but because one of those arguments that a fellow Volný here - and I say colleague Volný, I'm not saying volný, maybe you could learn decent behavior - so who fell here is also used by serious debaters. So I would just point out that the Constitutional Court did not say that the government acted unconstitutionally. The Constitutional Court could not even undo the matter because it himself acknowledged that it was not competent and that the Chamber of Deputies had sufficient powers over the government that it could exercise if it wanted to. So please for the record and for the public: The Constitutional Court did not state the unconstitutional nature and the Constitutional Court could not even undo the matter, because it simply acknowledged itself that it was not a matter of the Constitutional Court, but of relations between the House and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u76	Thank you. Now, Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, then I saw the application from the President of the ODS Club. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u77	Yes, thank you. I also wanted to respond to what was said here. I've already said here today that in this epidemic crisis, we see that relying on the free market is odd, because I've already quoted here Boris Johnson's statement that greed has secured Britain's benefits, and greed, he said capitalism, ensured Britain's success. And I have also shown how many countries follow the principle of a closer shirt than a coat, and Europe, which may have thought that the principles of a free market need to be stressed, has simply paid for it. But what I said was being questioned in this way about the free market, and I think it is necessary to consider how the individual's freedom and individual's freedom actually work, because it was often said here that the individual's freedom is above everything. I would like to say that this has never been and will not be true. [[15.40 hours]] And here's the thing: According to all the theorists, whether I marry Friedman or Hayek, everyone has to assume that individual freedom ends where you threaten each other. I even remember Friedman talking about infections and infections somewhere. That means whatever theory I take from those who talked about freedom, it's always been true that you're single only if you're not threatening to do the other person's work. And it seems to me that what we are witnessing in this House is that some here simply do not respect the measure of wearing a drape, and the fact that they threaten others is a violation of all, even the principles of even the greatest liberals I know in the theory of liberalism. I just hate that I have to suffer and that I have to watch because I think: even the hardest liberal right cannot afford to defend that someone can threaten others with their behavior. And what bothers me is that we need, as a state, to require everyone to respect the measures we take, and it bothers me that in this House, someone dares to point out to all citizens that he doesn't give a damn about the measures and that he doesn't care that he threatens those around him. That's just something that really bothers me, and I finally think I have to say it. To me, this seems like an absolutely wrong example. And if I can do that, I will do everything in my power to make sure that this example is not given in the House, because that actually repeals the authority of the state, which actually calls into question the authority of what the House says by the government. And I repeat: there is no theory that justifies your behavior threatening those around you. This is a violation of all principles and liberal societies, democratic societies! And I wish we could change that. What bothers me is that I have to look at something like that! And I'm convinced it bothers the people who are looking at the House. This is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u78	This was the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, now with priority rights chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u79	I'm gonna keep my emergency appearance for the end of the debate, but I have to respond to my two previous speakers. Firstly, I completely agree with what the Minister of Foreign Affairs said. [[Vice-President Philip: The Foreign Minister did not perform, but...]] Former Foreign Minister - I'm sorry, it's still in my head - and the current Minister of Culture. I hope that the current Foreign Minister - from one party - will not be offended. I agree with that, and it just occurred to me when he quoted Friedman, and I'm glad he quoted him, so I'm gonna remind him of another statement he made about taxes. When they asked him if he was in favour of tax cuts and under what circumstances and conditions, and Friedman said, "I'm in favour of reductions at any time." Whenever there's a chance, it's always good, without any other conditions. And when you quote him and you give him the truth about one thing, you give him the truth about that, and I remember how you guys were acting out here when we took advantage of the opportunity to lower taxes. But the word-telling Mr. Home Secretary used here. The Constitutional Court simply made it quite clear: firstly, he could not decide and could not cancel it, because the Chamber of Deputies had already abolished it, so he could not intervene and cancel the unconstitutional emergency situation. I think we all remember how the events went. Secondly, the Constitutional Court stated that under the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic, the Government can declare an emergency for a maximum period of 30 days and can only be extended after the House's prior consent. There is no other procedure for extending the emergency situation. In other words, the government acted illegally, unconstitutionally, choosing a procedure that is not legal. We can play with the words that there's no unconstitutional. Another procedure is not possible, said the Constitutional Court, and the government has chosen another procedure. The Constitutional Court also dealt with the request of the chieftains and found nothing wrong with their procedure. They may ask, have the competence to do so, no one can stop them, but the government has complied with them, thereby failing to comply with the constitutional law on the security of the Republic. It's not the first time. Let us remember the unconstitutional ban on travelling from the Czech Republic. And they always say something like that. [[Nesroz.]] Let's remember the illegal delay in the Senate precinct, the Teplice district. And this way, I could continue with one example after another, how the government violates the constitution and the laws. And we're not supposed to forget it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u80	We will now continue the debate with Mr Jan Hrnčíř's speech, and Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, stop fooling us. You guys are acting like you're in a fairy tale about Smolíček. Just two fingers... Just two weeks, just the pandemic law, and we've been rolling around here for a year in different shut-downs, emergency situations. You owe us a thousand billion dollars. Almost no help to entrepreneurs. Compensation for accommodation, compensation from spring last year you paid this February. People are desperate. They commit suicides, they're in an impossible situation, they're in executions, executors - some - act like they're looting those homes in desperate conditions in mobile executions. You take measures that don't make sense, and then you wonder why people don't want to follow them. They don't follow them when they're senseless! No light at the end of the tunnel! You take precautions because you can. Let people breathe, take care of your nation and stop harming him! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. Now, Mr Jakub Michálek, but I don't see him here, so I'm going to translate his application. Now, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová. You have the floor, Madame. It's your second performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u83	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Unfortunately, I was forced by the Minister of Interior Hamáček to do this, and I would like him to listen to me for a moment, otherwise I would of course not be here anymore, because what I wanted to say I already said in my previous performance. Minister Hamáček, through Mr President, you mentioned here a colleague from Tricolore. I don't know if you meant me or my colleague Majerová Zahradníková specifically, it doesn't matter. Anyway, I wanted to tell you that it's really unacceptable for you to talk like that, because I have the right to express myself here, just like you do. I stand by the people's opinion, I have a mandate, I'm elected here as you are, and I don't know why you're talking about me or my colleague here on a microphone. We didn't pick on you here, we said our opinions here. I have also looked at what Mrs Majerová Zahradníková said, and therefore I do not understand your speech to my colleague Majerová or to me, it doesn't matter. For example, we have not mentioned things here that citizens would be interested in, such as your recent - or not your - case, but, for example, I will quote Forum 24: "In mid-March, the last batch of antigen tests of the Chinese manufacturer will arrive in the Czech Republic, etc. purchased by the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček. Police and other state authorities are now investigating the selection of a non-transparable supplier. Meanwhile, it turns out that the same tests failed in Austria." This, for example, is something that I think our citizens might be interested in, because I don't know if everyone knows what an emergency means, why you're fighting for it. Yes, you're saying that it's for help and health to citizens, of course, we all want that, but on the other hand, the emergency situation also allows for an accelerated procedure, or faster procurement mode, not taking place in a proper procedure, as usual. And this case that can be read on the Internet is very interesting. I think it would be good for you to comment on this, and I have to say that I would not have expressed myself here at all if you had not urged me to do this with your performance here, and I do not understand why you are doing this, and I would like to ask you to refrain from such comments next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, Mrs Hyťhová. Now Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, and thank you even for opening this place, at least I have the opportunity to comment. And maybe paradoxical is that I didn't mean you at all, I meant a colleague on the other side, but that's okay, you pulled it on yourself. I hope I didn't touch you, I merely commented on the general atmosphere and arguments you're using. [[15.50 hours]] Well, about the case. It's okay. You know, you said it was possible to read it online. Well, I'll tell you a sweet secret. Not everything on the Internet is true. Maybe that's good to get the Internet job started. And if you want to dig deep into the case, it's good to find out some things. For example, that - and this is not an excuse - but a list of tests that the Ministry of the Interior has purchased, or from which the Ministry of the Interior has purchased, has been supplied by the Ministry of Health. That means the Home Office had no influence on the test. And imagine that even the list of suppliers, or authorized distributors, has also been supplied by the Ministry of Health. Therefore, the Ministry of the Interior had no influence on who would be addressed and who would not be addressed. A test was selected, which was later purchased on the basis of a selection committee decision, where three departments - health, education and the interior - were represented and the test was purchased for CZK 65. All entrepreneurs in the Czech Republic complain that the tests are worth CZK 150 above, that the government's compensation is insufficient, and I am merely stating that the Ministry of the Interior managed to buy the tests for CZK 65. You said the tests in Austria failed. Well, this is also an interesting argument which also falls within the category that what is on the Internet is not true. Some Czech journalist made that up, and the rest of them, because they're lazy to find out, they just accept it. I refer to the Prime Minister's meeting during his visit to Vienna, when he also spoke with the Minister of Education of Austria and there he was told - and it is certainly in the minutes - that Austria is very satisfied with the tests he uses, even considering increasing the intensity of testing. Austria didn't choose the tests by accident. Austria has undergone a fairly long process of selecting the supplier and, among other things, the tests you are talking about have also been selected by Austria because they have been certified by the prestigious German Institute. If you don't believe it anymore, maybe you'll believe the public media, so please turn to iROZHLAS.cz where the article and protocol from antigen tests tested by an independent institute and surprisingly the tests supplied by the Ministry of the Interior are based as very satisfactory. Their sensitivity is among the highest of those tests that have been tested. A whole series of tests that appear to be renowned have been placed behind these tests. Therefore, to sum up, we bought tests with which the Rakušák are satisfied, which came out very well in an independent office test and which costs CZK 65. If it's criminal, I guess I'm gonna have to do some time. I'm convinced we didn't do anything wrong and we didn't break anything. If the police are looking into something, it doesn't mean that the person is guilty - that means that someone has filed a criminal complaint against the person. So I'm glad the police are working, and I believe that when this is all over, the police will close the case and you will apologize to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u86	I thank the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Vojtěch Munzar will now appear and Martin Baxa will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues have already said the opinion of our club on the emergency situation. I am not going to repeat the arguments that have been raised here, but let me make a motion for an accompanying resolution, let me say, on a partial matter, which, however, is very annoying to people because they are accompanied every day. I intersected the Minister of Health 14 days ago and asked him to consider the obligation to wear drapes or respirators in the built-up territory of the village in cases where a person walks the street provenly alone or only with a member of his household. I asked the Minister who in such a case protects my drape if I am actually walking down an empty street. I understand wearing masks and respirators when a person is close to strangers, as a prevention against virus transmission. I don't question it in such cases. It's at least considerate of others. But I do not understand this restriction and this obligation in cases where a person actually walks the sidewalk alone, for example in a quiet residential zone, and there is no one anywhere around him. I asked the Minister of Health how wearing a drape when a person walks the street alone improves the epidemiological situation and what a risk it is to other people. I also mentioned that wearing respirators and masks is a certain restriction and burden for the organism. The minister couldn't answer my question. It merely stated that such an exception would reduce the effectiveness of the measure, although it stated that it understood my logical arguments. I am very glad, Minister, that you have eased the obligation to wear a drape for those who are going for a run or a bike ride. It's something like that. From my point of view, this measure should also be adapted to cases where a person walks around the village by himself on a people's empty street. Most people consider this duty meaningless. And if the government issues measures that people consider absurd, and they do not follow them because of that, for example, it reduces confidence not only in this particular measure, but in all measures as a whole. So let me read the accompanying resolution, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of Health to allow the movement of persons in the built-up territory of a municipality without breathing protection in cases where a person moves probligably alone or only with a member of the common household, that is at a safe distance from other persons.' Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u88	Thank you, Vojtěch Munzar, for keeping up with the time to perform. Mr Martin Baxa now. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u89	Good afternoon, Mr President, dear colleagues. On the occasion of this debate on the continuation of the emergency situation, let me briefly comment on one topic which is quite regularly neglected during these debates, but in my view it is very important, and this is the situation in Czech culture and the need for Czech culture to help. Whatever the case, more than a year-long measure has been very drastic in the field of culture. I am even convinced that this is one of the most affected areas at all stages of this Coronavirus crisis. The spring period, when everything was closed, gradually began to release the measures, however, during the summer period came a series of other very serious impacts on the field of culture and actually since autumn the vast majority of cultural activities are completely closed. I consider this to be a very serious report not only in relation to what this means specifically economically for many tens, perhaps several or hundreds of thousands of people who work in culture. But it is also an important report about the lack of culture, the lack of open theatres, the lack of concerts, the lack of culture provided by both public founders and those who do business in culture and who bring joy, experiences, pleasure, in the services they actually provide through their business. Since last year, I regularly call on the Minister of Culture to adopt effective instruments to support Czech culture. Something's doing better, something less. Very often these measures come with a delay, they are not sufficient and the area of culture suffers greatly. None of us wants stable working bodies, orchestras, associations, companies, companies to disappear because they don't get enough support. We have very much called for these measures in the field of culture to be simple, functional, so that artists know how quickly they can ask for support, how successful the support will be and how quickly they will get it. I think there's a lot of reserves in this. As Chair of the Sub-Committee on Culture, I have repeatedly called on the subcommittee to do so and I continue to call for it. We live in a time when we are likely to have two more weeks of tough measures ahead of us, but we firmly believe that the pandemic situation will start to improve, that the numbers will start to fall, and that we will gradually see the imaginary light at the end of the tunnel, which in the case of culture will mean re-establishing individual cultural areas back into life, the possibility for viewers to visit them. [[16.00 hours]] I would also like to use this opportunity to do so, and to call on Minister Zaorálek, the Government, the Prime Minister, to work very intensively in cooperation with the cultural community on how to prepare not only a plan to relax individual measures, and hence the possibility of restoring the operation of individual cultural institutions and cultural activities, but also a plan on how culture should operate at a time when these measures are already very mild, but still we will live at least to some extent in the shade of coronavirus. I would like to call on the Government and Minister Zaorálek to prepare in dialogue with cultural actors the functioning of culture in the field of theatre, dance, music, large outdoor concerts as well as other, museums, galleries, how it will work this year, how it will work next year, what predictable and stable parameters in which culture can function. It's very important to us. I think that a large number of people in our country lack culture, and we are now able and willing to understand that these measures prevent cultural institutions from being opened, but we will certainly not be able to understand that these restrictions, these reduction in the area of culture, continue at a time when external conditions will allow it and when those cultural actors need to see a clear plan, clear rules, clear support options for this summer, autumn and next year. So this is my call for negotiations on further extension of the emergency state to create space for the future functioning of culture, a plan for how culture should open up, how culture should work, and opportunities to support artists if there is to be a situation that these measures will continue. I think Czech culture certainly deserves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u90	Thank you. President Jakub Michálek, then Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Vojtěch Filip, will now speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. I am now merely formally reporting that the motion for an accompanying resolution, which I have presented here, is loaded in the House system as House document 7909, so I refer to the text of this House document. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u92	Thank you. President Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u93	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I will be brief. I gave up my word in the morning during the vote on the programme, I did not want to expand the inappropriate debate, but since President Jakub Michálek brought it back here, let me make one comment. It's about how we behave. Many here talk about constitutionality, legality, compliance with legal standards, compliance with obligations and so on, but they don't worry about it when it doesn't suit them. We are part of the international community, we have concluded over 200 international treaties, from which we have obligations and obligations and also rights. Among other things, we are part of not only the European Union, the UN, the OSCE, but also the OECD and other organisations, including international agreements on economic issues. And even by eliminating Chinese suppliers, at least as presented, we have, of course, violated our international legal obligations. I would like to quote the reaction of the People's Republic of China to the decision that has been criticised here. I will be very brief, I will only read the part: "The Chinese party has noticed the report and expresses serious concern and strong disapproval that the Czech party will exclude the Chinese company from the tender for the project. It should be pointed out that this practice of the Czech party deviates seriously from the principle of fair competition and rules of international trade and seriously damages the legitimate rights and interests of the Chinese company. The Chinese party therefore calls on the Czech party to correct this incorrect procedure, consistently adhere to market economy principles, fair competition, actually provide open, fair, transparent and non-discriminatory business environment for Chinese companies suitable for investing and operating in the Czech Republic and create the necessary conditions for mutually beneficial cooperation between China and the Czech Republic." I quote it so that we realize how absurd the debate that was here this morning was, very absurd. How many words we've heard about transparency, how many words we've heard about compliance with laws and obligations, but we're debating here as if it wasn't about us, as if we could rule out anyone in a non-transparable way or with a breach of our obligations under international agreements. Yes, it is certainly our right, but we must also bear certain consequences. So much for the debate that I brought back in his performance by Jakub Michálek. I reject any accusation that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is doing business, no matter who says so. I refuse. When we said a major "no" to the extension of the emergency situation in February, our conditions were clear, now you all accept them, that is, the return of children to schools, and the second condition was the opening of outdoor sports facilities. We repeat these two conditions all the time. These are not conditions that have state budget rights, they are not conditions that may in some way restrict the government. These were conditions that can be done both in an emergency and in a state of danger. We pointed it out. Today we have made it clear - after we have verified the opinions of the citizens of the Czech Republic in all 14 regions - what they think. I'm not gonna speak for everyone like some of the others did here. We really know that society is divided, that part of the citizens want to prolong the emergency situation, part of the citizens do not want to prolong the emergency situation, they have their reasons for doing so. And I repeat, we don't speak for everyone. All I'm talking about is that opinions about this matter are different. And if those who communicate with us, with whom we are constantly speaking, who are our constituents, say: Yes, it is important for us that conditions are created here so that one feels safe so that health care can be provided, so that we make this decision. The only thing we've added in terms since February towards the government is that restrictions on districts are pointless. There is no evidence that restrictions on entry into the district have brought any improvement in the spread of pandemic diseases. It's not proven! We can document this with a number of articles that are being published, and we can document it with a number of studies that are done by renowned epidemiologists, not by those who can boast about medical degrees and other academic degrees, but they are epidemiologists. [[16.10 hours]] This has not been proven, and that is why we decided to extend the condition by limiting the movement to the edge. In turn, I am based only on the constitutional rules of the Czech Republic that self-government is at the level of the municipality and the region, that crisis crews establish municipalities and regions and that a partner for the central crisis crew will be the crisis crew of the region. What's illogical about that? On the contrary, it has a fundamental logic, economical, that there is a need for fewer policemen, fewer soldiers who will guard the boundaries of the districts that are, forgive me, basically just judicial, and thus allow these loose forces, whether the Czech Army or the Police of the Czech Republic or other components of the Integrated Rescue System, to fight the pandemic. [[Use]] And if anyone calls this business, I call it setting the terms under the State Security Act. Name it all you want, you can insult us, but you're lying! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. Just so we're clear, as we proceed, I'm going to introduce you to the discussions. In the order in which I will read them, colleagues and colleagues will then perform. First will be Minister Zaorálek, then President Radim Fiala, President Stanjura, Vice-President Kubíček, President Pekarová Adamová and Member Dominik Feri. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u95	Thank you. I apologize for the fact that I am still performing, but I have listened to Mr Baxa, and I feel the need and the duty to respond. I actually agree with him, and I am well aware that the basis of culture is living culture, meeting people. Culture is actually a relationship between people and our present life without this meeting and without this living culture has become terribly flat. Actually, I go to work, work, and we look at something online. And that's something that can't last a long time, so I totally agree with him, and I'm not surprised that he'd like to know when the light will appear and when it will be possible to get to know some program about how this area of living culture here, meeting at cultural events, how it will be possible to restore it. I'd like to remind you again and repeat what the Minister of Health has said here. If an emergency situation is approved, if we can stop the next few days and finish what started, the government is ready to present such a program before Easter. It would, of course, also include what Mr Baxa called for - a certain idea of how we would release in the field of culture. I don't want to insinuate here right now, because we have to make a deal first. I would like to mention once again: last week we organised a meeting of Mrs Svrčinová's Chief Hygiene with representatives of the cultural and artistic community and we will organise this meeting again next week. So I would also like to assure him that this communication, this information transfer, because the new model will probably be different from the January one, so we'll try again to work with the very ones involved. And I assure him that they will be included, as they were before.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u96	Thank you, Minister. President Radim Fiala will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, after all, I would like to speak with the SPD club's opinion. In the long run, we say that it is necessary to protect endangered groups, that this is the most important thing. Furthermore, we say that area measures and lockdowns are no longer a solution and were not. We voted only for the first, sometimes at the beginning of last year. Since then, we have not supported any other emergency situation, because the emergency situation has become synonymous with area measures and lockdowns, which will have an extensive economic-social impact on society, and the impact can be so great that it may be greater than the health situation, if we are not sure that those lockdowns and those flat-rate measures reduce those numbers. I'm just gonna work my way into short history. About a month ago, as opposition, Prime Minister Babiš asked us to give him another 14 days; She refused the SPD for 14 days at the time. Everyone was angry that the opposition could vote together, but we did not support the emergency situation in the past and we will not support it in the future, because the way they found out in other countries, such as Austria, Prime Minister Kurz, Chancellor Kurz, and so on. These flat - surface measures cannot work in a situation where people do not trust or trust them. This is the biggest problem that this government has lost confidence in the citizens of the Czech Republic. We believe that we can defeat the virus on the basis of the responsibility of people and volunteering and that people will be partners of this government, not on the basis of repression, on the basis that we will punish, fine, kneel and so on. I am convinced that this is not the right path and cannot lead to the right direction or to the right outcome. That is why the SPD has not supported and will not support the emergency situation in the future. We believe that another strategy, another concept, should be combated by pandemics. This government has no plan, no concept, no strategy. They're basically dealing with numbers that give them statistics. For example, what happens tomorrow will not be decided until tomorrow morning by the numbers that spit out the statistics. We don't think that's the way. In any case, if the emergency situation had not been approved, the government already has an insurance policy called the pandemic law. The pandemic law is basically synonymous with an emergency. It is de facto the same thing, except that the pandemic law cannot limit movement. So if the ministers of this government and the Prime Minister promise us that the emergency situation is here for the last time, first of all, I don't really believe it, because they don't know it either, but secondly, if it's really the last time, they can use a law called the pandemic law, and with the exception of restrictions on movement, it's actually kind of a liquefying emergency. As for the things we talked about today, it's schooling or schooling. The SPD movement says that, as is true in other countries, such as Sweden or Switzerland, we believe that children could normally go to schools in limited groups with basic measures, of course not in the way they were before the covid, but the truth is, and experts agree that children lose social skills, they are fat, they are health problems, communication problems and so on. So as far as the SPD is concerned, we are in favour of the children returning to school as soon as possible, and in our opinion, this should have happened a long time ago. Testing: testing is another thing that we cannot agree with this government and Minister Blatný. I said here a moment ago that we should build mutual trust that people should be partners with this government and that the government is the service it provides to its citizens. But compulsory testing has been introduced here, although it is clear that there are 1 or a maximum of 2 per cent infected in enterprises. Besides, we know antigen tests aren't a reliable method, but it's really a problem for those companies. Our idea is that people should trust the government that every single person should test himself at home once a week, and if the tests are positive, he should not go to work to show his responsibility to all fellow citizens, co-workers, not to infect them. That means volunteering and responsibility, that's the way, not duty and repression. So it's for testing. As far as vaccination is concerned, I think this is another problem that has already started in the European Union, when we did not even know that the European Union existed when the Corona Pandemia arose. When it became a vaccine business, suddenly we knew about them, we couldn't even order anything. Some countries went their own way, for example Hungary ordered its vaccines, after all Austria and Slovakia. That's what I'm naming the countries closest to us who ordered their vaccines, because by having enough vaccines, they, of course, reduce mortality, reduce the number of infected people and reduce the problems that hospitals have and that culminate in the lack of medical personnel, which is the main problem. So, Minister, for me, I say that the vaccine has no ideology and that we should take all vaccines that are safe for us, and speed, I think, voluntary vaccination is very important. And if one day 2 billion people will be vaccinated in the world, but we reject it because it's from another continent, in a geographical way that we or you, or this government, or somebody else doesn't like it, I think it's a great shame, and try to explain it to those people who have been killed. I think it's a big problem. [[16.20 hours]] And I also have to turn to the State Institute for Drug Control, which alibistically says that they can't actually control it. So what do we have it for? So let's cancel it, State Institute for Drug Control, and then we'll rebuild it on people who have the political courage to tell us whether vaccines are safe or not. That's the most important thing for the citizens. And if we refer to the EMA, the European Medicines Agency, everyone knows that in recent years EMA has said that they can use 300 different types of medication, of course, among others, and 300 have then called off that they have great side effects. So they're not the champions of the world, the European, amazing EMA that only she can tell us what we can inoculate. Again, the vaccine has no ideology, and I would like us to help Czech citizens. As for the last thing I have here marked from today's discussion, of course, there is a report from the Supreme Audit Office. We tried to discuss the report yesterday. I am convinced that we will discuss it in the future. Of course, this pandemic crisis and the emergency situation that you've been voting here for the seventh time, I'm deliberately saying you're voting - without the SPD movement, gives you the opportunity to do contracts without tenders due to an emergency situation. I'm convinced it's wrong. The Supreme Audit Office draws attention to this in its long-term report. First of all, we take different medical aids through companies from Cayman and other islands I don't even know, instead of removing them from Czech companies. Secondly, I think it's been a long time for us to make a tender for the respirators, let them do the tests, just keep going without it, and actually the corona crisis is here for a year and a half, so in a year and a half you weren't able to do the selection procedures and choose the companies. In the past, you bought it from 50 crowns to 770 crowns, and even in this report it says that some of them do not satisfy, that they do not have certificates and are not few, it is in millions of crowns. It's a fall, it's a fall. I don't want to name anyone, but somebody should just pay for it. And if you're still shopping without tenders today, I think it's a problem, and the Supreme Audit Office's report is for the resignation of ministers, maybe the government, maybe the Prime Minister, then read it. I guess that's all I have to say. Of course, I'd find a lot of other things, but I said the club's position, which is the most important. And once again, and for the last time, let's fight the virus, not the people, and the SPD will vote against the emergency situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura is now in line with the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u99	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, there has already been quite a lot to say today, and before I get to what I wanted and I want to say, notice that Minister Blatný, and not only him, but also other members of the government, claims that the key reason for extending the emergency situation is the ban on movement between counties. Then the President of the KSČM will come and say: This measure is complete nonsense, it doesn't work, we fundamentally reject it, but at the same time we will vote to prolong the emergency situation. So that's really communist logic, round square, or, as I would call it, yes, this green color looks very yellow. So either the main argument is true, and then I will try to disprove it, which Minister Blatný is talking about, and then I would understand, even if I wouldn't support it, the Communists' position, but the Communists do not accept the main argument and at the same time want to vote in favour, then there is only another reason for which the government needs an emergency situation, and these are contracts. Then there's nothing else. But let's go back to today's date. We're 173 today. The day of emergency and unfortunately we have 25,639 deaths yesterday. This is the result of the emergency situation and the activities of this government. This represents tens of thousands of affected families who have suffered a huge loss. These are not just daily statistics and numbers in the Excel tables, they are specific people and their pain. The government's been coming here all these 173 days, using a microphone, using the media, asking the public to understand and we hear: Hold on three more weeks, hold on two more weeks, hold on until Christmas, hold on to the Three Kings, hold on to Easter, over and over, to work and home, to work and home, locked in your apartments, houses, municipalities and districts. And we have the worst numbers in the world, and the government has the courage to come in and say, we still need it. The numbers are improving, we are all happy, but they are improving thanks to our citizens. I would like to thank the vast majority of our citizens from this place, who have often made senseless arrangements, but who are often right to be fair and honest for more than a year, but I think they have had quite rightly enough. Yesterday, the Constitutional Court decided quite clearly that what the government had chosen after the House refused to extend the emergency situation was contrary to what laws and constitutions apply in our country. In that debate, I was quoting from the Member's promise that each of us committed himself to upholding the laws of the Czech Republic and its constitution, and the government repeatedly, and I think that in some cases even consciously, violates it. And that's a thing we can't get used to, that's an extremely dangerous thing. Constitutional rights and human freedoms are severely restricted, not just a senseless ban on the movement between counties, but a long-term ban on assembly, and this is how we can proceed. But as much as I blame the government for all this time is her immense boastfulness: We're the best in the world again, we're testing like no one else, best in covid, still, absolutely lacking humility. On the other hand, the government constantly wants citizens to understand it, respect it. Minister Blatný gave us this material a few hours before the meeting. [[He's pointing.]] Yet we had time to analyze it, and at today's press conference, journalists asked us if we were convinced by the material, and we said: This material convinced us, convinced us that our view that the emergency situation should not be prolonged is correct. [[16.30 hours]] So much for quoted and discussed mobility. We were given a meeting with the Prime Minister on Wednesday... Just take it that during the negotiations with the Prime Minister, you are walking through tables that the government is supposed to support its arguments. During the negotiations! We don't have teams of ministerial servants, hundreds and thousands of people who prepare the documents. And at first glance, the data - and I'm going to talk about the Moravian-Silesian region - looked very convincing: a decline in mobility by 30 percent per week from 15. 3. 2021. And, of course, after the meeting, we were able to verify this graph and that decline was compared to March 2019. I understand that, but then you look and you find that in my county on weekdays mobility week from February 15th, that's two weeks before lockdown, and week from February 15. Three, two weeks in lockdown, same. Same! And it's logical. Who knows the Moravian-Silesian region, Ostrava is a large agglomeration, where tens of thousands of people commute daily for work, doctors and so on. So the government's argument that the reason to prolong the emergency is to extend the ban on movement between counties is odd, false, false, let's call it what we want. And only the second difference against the pandemic law, and those are the contracts. I must agree that the Supreme Audit Office's report is a sad reading, a sad reading for all taxpayers, who accuse the government of wasting taxpayers' money, but ritually welcomed Chinese aircraft with poor protective equipment. Read the report of the Supreme Audit Office, not the report of the opposition or the opinion of the opposition, how many percent of poor protective equipment and at what price this government purchased. I can hear it now: a new situation, a crisis. Well, maybe we could apologize and turn a blind eye for March of last year, but the situation keeps repeating itself. Do you still remember? That's three or four weeks when the Home Office was buying antigen tests for schools. Then I will present the words of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, not the opposition, who accused the Vice Prime Minister of the same government, that these are outrageous dirty business and that there is some burglar behind it. Strong words by Andrej Babiš - I agree. That's why I said the source of these powerful sources. And nothing, the government doesn't even vote on it, yet the government already had information that these tests are poor quality and that they have bad experience in neighbouring Austria. I think vaccination is the right way. I think it's a good thing the numbers are getting better, it's worse this week than last week, I don't know why, but then we'll know that the government hasn't used all the options it had. She said she wanted to save money. She wanted to save half a billion in a year's deficit. They said they wanted to save 500 million on the health and lives of our citizens. What would happen if it weren't used, would there be too many of them, the vaccines? That other governments acted more reasonably that they ordered more from different producers than the number of citizens, regardless of the citizens' interest, that they did the right thing, that they didn't act as hockers to save the crown and waste billions of lockdowns. And then I'll read the media statement, I don't know exactly what the function is, the state secretary for European affairs, which says, "We've done well, maybe when all the Američan are vaccinated, it'll come to us." That's an incredible sentence from a high-ranking civil servant. That fact, I said it last week, that it happened, it's for the government to leave. One reason. The Supreme Audit Office's report itself is back to the government's departure. When we were here last spring debating the setting up of a committee of inquiry, ministers who are not here today or are not present, perhaps even the secretary who is here said, "No, no, no, let's wait for the results of the independent Supreme Audit Office. The results are overwhelming, and the Prime Minister will say that the NKÚ has discovered America. In other words, he must have known when he said so easily: The SAO discovered America. So he's known for a year. They were buying scumbags at high prices. This week's case - I don't know if it's true, but from the media: we have famously confiscated overpriced drapes. Remember those reports - the Home Secretary almost had the machine gun with him, how they confiscated it and protected it, and left the drapes, allegedly the shipment was worth 300,000, and the government paid compensation to a company that even bought the rights for it, 26 million. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Not the government, says the secretary, so the taxpayers, that's accurate. Yes, the taxpayers paid 26 million compensation. That, once again, is the reason for the government to leave. When we proposed in October last year that the government should come to ask for confidence because it is not prepared enough for the second wave, we were rejected, criticized, ridiculed, and very often I heard the argument: In the crisis, it is dangerous. And today we have the results. I started my speech, the worst numbers in the world. This is the result of the fact that it does not prevail in the crisis, we must not replace anyone. Minister Blatný is not here at the moment, he is asking you and the citizens for their trust. I understand him from his post, but he doesn't trust the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister is looking for the successor of Minister Blatný and offers his chair. Every now and then, someone says he rejected it, someone says he would think about it, and many don't really talk about it properly. So we're in an absurd situation - the Prime Minister doesn't trust his health minister, he's looking for his successor, and at the same time both of them are saying to the citizens: Hold still, believe us, we're leading you in the right direction. That doesn't make any sense. I'm not gonna tell the Prime Minister who's supposed to be called off and who's not, because especially in the other group, I'd be in a pretty tight spot. Really. I could elaborate on the question of compensation for entrepreneurs, reminding us that next week, our commission will deal with this. I think there will be enough room for us to talk about this at the April meeting, but the situation is absolutely desperate. And the government always has a headline, a headline -- it's gonna be great -- and the result won't be. Then, when you talk to these people, you find that even those programs that work at first sight - and often work well - have absurdly strict conditions, especially for small companies, when it comes to surrender deadlines. And sanctions are incredible, which means it's either all or nothing. I read a specific example today. We had an Antivirus C program that was successful, simple, actually it worked automatically - companies didn't take social security three months for their employees if they fulfilled the legal conditions, and now health service providers - now, in March 2021, and that program, if memory doesn't deceive me, was June, July, August - were asked to pay this discount, stating that compensation must not be supplemented and added up and that they as health service providers could be compensated for how they had limited traffic last year. So they applied the discount under the law in June, July, August, now in March they have to return it - that's not small money for a small company - with the fact that it may prove that the state may ever send them anything again, and then it would be twice. It wouldn't be twice, it's a good service, of course non-state, so there's a problem. [[16.40 hours]] I could go on like this. Favourite other program, Antivirus A or B, especially Minister Maláčová. By the 20th month at the latest, you are required to pay your employees' wages by law and to those who are, for example, in sickness or quarantine, pay the so-called payback. In that case, you are entitled to draw from Antivirus A or B. But if you don't file an application by the end of the same month, that means you have eight days in February, March 11, April 10, you're out of luck. Let's imagine the situation of a small firm, one accountant or one accountant, maybe external, which is also quarantined or sick. You're losing the money. You have 8, 10 or 11 days. And the state? To this day tens of thousands of applications from the Czech Republic for MIT tradesmen did not pay the double minister for 2020. Where's the same rigor on the state to make it in 8, 9, 10 or 11 days? It's not! The state has plenty of time. He's constantly investigating dirty suspects who have the courage to ask for some help when the state forbids them to do business. These are the key reasons why our coalition, which means the civil democrats, the Christian Democrats and the TOP 09, cannot support an extension of the emergency situation. The debate is relatively calm today, as we know from this morning that the Communists have returned to the government camp, and therefore the government has managed to secure the majority. It's a standard political process. We may not like it, but we have to respect it. The only chance to change that is the next election. I'd just ask the communists not to say they're in opposition, too. I think it really upsets the rest of us opposition parties. The chairman of the SPD club smiles and nods his head. I would like to remind my colleague Radim Fial through the Vice-President that when the government is in trouble, the SPD almost always comes to the rescue, and I could appoint dozens of laws and personnel elections. It's a political reality again, I'm not criticizing it, I'm just describing the situation, whether it's Lex Dukovany, the construction law, I could go on, just recently. Why not, it's their full right, they just don't have to pretend they're always against the government, unlike the others. It's not exactly like that. I think it is reasonable and common for each party to carry out its programme and vote accordingly. We have prepared about six resolutions which concern, in particular, restrictions on the movement of our citizens, but before we vote on them, I have been skeptical of the resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies for quite a long time. Not because she wasn't reasonable, often, but I think the government is doing the only thing with them, that she's wallpapering public spaces and nothing else. On 11 February, we mostly in the Chamber of Deputies, which means that part of the members of the government, YES, ČSSD or KSČM, had to vote, imposed on the government - 11 February - to prepare a programme to save small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the form of remission of contributions from businessmen and social insurance contributions for small companies, i.e. the renewal of the Antivirus C programme. Six weeks have passed and the result is one big zero. Prime Minister, what have you done with this resolution? Specific question. How can you afford to ignore the House of Deputies' resolution? How come you didn't file a bill? And you don't have to! It's been on the agenda for about eight meetings, now we have extraordinary, so about 25 meetings from the autumn of last year. We wrote those bills, and you don't even have the courage to discuss them! But we have a valid resolution from the Chamber of Deputies that the government should do it. Now for the specific resolution. I have also handed them over to the rapporteur, who we are presenting together: 'The Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to put an end to measures restricting the movement of residents within the district and between the counties'. I suppose the Communists will support it, and then it should pass when Chairman Filip said it was completely wrong. So we have one. "The Chamber of Deputies imposes an end to the government's checks on citizens at the border of counties as a measure that does not bring effect, but extends far beyond citizens' rights." If it didn't pass first, at least the second. If it passes first, there won't be a ban on movement, there won't be police controls. If neither passes, we propose to the Minister of the Interior to allow movement between Prague and the Central Bohemia Region, as this is especially in the ring of districts around Prague in the area of economic, services and health care. Now we have one resolution that we should all support when no one is trying to hide anything and responds to the Supreme Audit Office's finding: "The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to publish all contracts concluded to purchase in an emergency period." Without blackout, that's not in the resolution, it's in the blackout. We've also seen a contract published by the government, and without blacking out, there was only the Czech Republic and nothing else. I will return to what I said about compensation for businessmen and small businesses: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the government to submit information to the government by the end of March on the implementation of the resolution of 11 February, which the government undertook to prepare a programme for the rescue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the form of the remission of contributions from businessmen and social insurance contributions for small companies, i.e. the renewal of the Antivirus C programme. " And the last resolution that should also be passed when everyone talks about how crucial the return of pupils to schools is: "The Chamber of Deputies imposes on the Government the opening of nursery schools, first grade primary schools and parts of other schools at the latest from 12 April 2021, along with ensuring a gentle testing of pupils and teachers and the accelerated completion of teacher vaccinations." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. I merely recall that we are acting under a special regime under Section 109m of the Rules of Procedure Act, so factual remarks cannot be applied, this merely applies to the debate. At the moment, Mr Kubíček, President Pekarová Adamová, Vice-President of the Dominik Feri Club, Vice-President of the Leo Luzar Club, so Mr Kubíček has the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u101	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the Minister of Health, I will allow myself to modify the request to extend the emergency situation by other dates. I don't think I'm gonna read the request because it's the same, I'm just gonna read the dates, Mr President. [[- Yes.]] And then I would like to ask Mr President if he will then carry out the so-called indicative vote that will run. So I'd like to add more dates: extending the emergency situation to 11. 4., extension of emergency status to 9. 4. and extension of emergency status to 7. 4. Yes, understandable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u102	Yes, so we have the original proposal that's up to 27. 4, you're adding 11. 4, 9. 4. and 7. 4. and 11. 4. has already been proposed by KSČM. I understand that President Pekarová Adamová's priority right is now her turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I see you're tired, but who is really tired of the situation, so the parents of the children who spend time with them at the home office are distance teaching, educators, of course all medical staff, but also all hairdressers, hairdressers, manicurists, pedicures, masseuses, masseuses, just all businessmen who haven't been able to make money in months. All those who are threatened by the situation are losing long-built firms, and that's what they're losing, the crashes are starting to grow rapidly. All those who do in culture, whatever they are, whether they are directly on stage or in the background, who may not be seen so often, but are fed by this area. In tourism - not to mention that. These are industries that are decimated, we could probably name many and many others. They all feel enormous anger, fatigue, despair, and, of course, epidemics of various mental diseases, obesity, and poverty are also added to the Coronavirus. It is for those who are affected by this that is daily bread today and they are angry that they can't even get to their cottage in another district, even if they got into a car with their family, they would get there and wouldn't be any threat to anyone else. The fact that they have to wear a drape, mouth protection, and empty streets just annoys them, legitimately, that they can't breathe fresh air, even when there's no one around them. That they can't go to their little shop in the street, it must be closed, even if there's a head on the supermarkets. This is often realized by many that it is a matter that doesn't matter, but in order to get back to their favorite dealer, no matter what goods, it simply doesn't work. And last but not least, which could read a lot more, they are also extremely upset that there is a plexis box right over there that they didn't have to pay for - I think we should call on them to do so, even if they do so on their own decision that they are violating the basic rule that applies here. And the taxpayer will pay for it. [[Secretary Schiller nods.]] Madam Secretary here says he agrees. I think we should all agree on this together to call them on it. There's no reason for other rules to apply here for some, and for people out there to look at it and think, why the double standard? Why doesn't anyone have a drape on the street, the police step in, and it's okay here that two MPs here have this high standard of access! And more and more people tell me that. I understand that Members enjoy it, that it suits them, that they make their own peacocks on it, but on the other hand, let's think about whether the rest of us should ask them to do this precisely. I'd be up for it. Many people simply fall, to the public, on the mouth, forgive me for the expression, but the better one certainly does not exist in this direction anymore, and it holds. They're always told it's a turning point. How many times have we heard it in the last six months? You can't even count it. Two more weeks, three more weeks, let's sacrifice one or the other month. They hear it all the time. And yet within the framework of those rules or those measures that work, so the emergency situation, really an emergency situation, the government needs only two basic things - to limit movement, which of the data that we have available - and it has been mentioned many times - so I will no longer discuss it into detail - so in its essence it is rather because we can't exactly go into service, we can't go into business that is closed. But within the districts that some exceptions apply, some don't, so it doesn't have such a major influence, so that's one thing the government needs an emergency on. And the second thing that needs emergency is selection procedures, or just so the government doesn't have to buy under the Public Procurement Act. That means non-transparable contracts and the conclusion of the Supreme Audit Office, which we all know. So we certainly don't need to prolong the emergency situation for these non-transparable deals to the government, on the contrary, and not to restrict movement. So other things can be, we don't question all the necessary measures, the FFP2 respirators inside the buildings, no way, it definitely works, it's supposed to continue to pay. We certainly do not question many of the necessary closures, but we question the help that the government is giving insufficient. Anyway, we wouldn't insist on restricting movement, and I think we'll deal with the pandemic law. Finally, we have it - the government was supposed to prepare it for months, completely abandoned it, now we have it, so let's finally use it. And all the other things that suit you, that you can do under the cover of an emergency state, you couldn't finally do that. So in TOP 09, I can clearly say that we will not support the emergency situation, as we have done in the past many times. We want the government - and we keep saying this - to ensure that its aid is really effective towards entrepreneurs and businessmen, to approve the compensation law that we have submitted to be forgiven for the fees to the traders as it was last year, but then the government didn't do it again, because it just deserves the most of our help at the moment, and this is one of the simplest ones that they don't have to pay the levies anymore. We want the government to have to do the contracts in full transparency so that this popular form of competition, which is now, cannot continue, and we want it to also have a plan of how it will loosen up gradually, how it will return life to normal. It was submitted by our AntiCovid team. Minister Blatný himself mentioned that this is actually a good plan, which will be used in government together with experts, is consulted with experts, it is only necessary to put these things into life, not just leaving them on paper. And that's all that's needed at this point, the pandemic law, the real help to those who are failing, because it's completely forgotten about the favorite password that was mentioned here a year ago, that someone who gives quickly twice gives. That's completely forgotten, so let's get back to it, because right now it's in this help that we need to add to all those who fall on the mouth. I want to thank all the paramedics very much, and I want to tell them that we certainly appreciate their work and that we do not want to undermine the way some people here are trying to push their work, but we want people to have the opportunity to go to their cottage or cottage. We want them to have the opportunity to go into nature where they can't infect anyone, and we simply don't have any more massive waves, waves of epidemics, obesity, mental illness, poverty, and many other problems that this closure brings to society. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri will now appear with priority rights, then Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared, also with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u105	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Thank you, Honza, through Mr President. It wouldn't be an interview with a member of the government not to say that every 14 days or every three weeks there will always be this litany in the House, when it is requested to prolong the emergency, and those hard-working ministers of opposition MPs constantly annoy with their speeches. If you think we're comfortable talking about oak all the time, you're wrong. However, it must be said that this is the only time that we can actively demonstrate our will and our attitude towards failing to manage the pandemic through government and poorly-established crisis measures. [[17,00 hours]] I would like to devote myself - because our political position has been summarised in these speeches, we will not support the emergency situation - but I would like to do one thing, one specific conversation and a statement from the Prime Minister concerning our plan to return to normal. I presend that it's a plan to return to normal, it's not dislodgement, because dislodgement is a word that's covered by so many negative connotations that it'll loosen up, and then maybe it'll tighten up the measures again. It is a plan to return to normal, which takes into account what situation we are in, natural immunization, vaccination. And the Prime Minister - I don't know, I don't even know which option is worse, but I don't know if he knew about it or whether it was a deliberate foul - so he took the 14-day-old version that counted on the three scenarios, and he mocked the opposition that this was like the opposition's output, the colors? What's that? A few days ago, when the Minister of Health, Mrs. Chief Hygiene and other executives got this plan worked out back to normal, when we acted as promised - we said: These are some scenarios, we have some basic idea of parametrization, which means on the basis of which indicators would gradually go through the next steps, and we will introduce this within 14 days. In the meantime, we have had many negotiations with the Chamber of Commerce, of course with epidemiologists, with representatives of culture, and we have completed this, we have identified the indicators. And Minister Blatný wrote: Yes, we will come out of this, we will take it into account, and I am very pleased and we are ready for any negotiations, because that is our goal, to get back to normal, to work with the government on this. And then the Prime Minister comes out and says, well, look, the opposition doesn't really do anything. I think it's ridiculous that the opposition has to do it here, that we've made a little whip, that we're still doing something for the government, but we don't have hundreds of officials, we don't really have them. It is not that all Members are equal. The role of government Members is different from that of opposition Members. Just no, the government's role is different from that of opposition MPs. We've prepared the plan to return to normal, and the Prime Minister will say, well, the opposition really hasn't done much. This is really something that... either the communication in the government doesn't work at all, and Minister Blatný doesn't exchange information with the Prime Minister, or I have no idea what the Prime Minister meant. This means, this is where we would like to go, this return plan, which the government has at its disposal, is available to the public, where there are specific indicators, incidences and more. And that's where we'd like to head. I'll take one more sigh. On February 17th, we met here in the House, in the horsehouse, and we prepared together what the pandemic law might look like so that it wouldn't have to repeat what's happening here today. I asked the Minister, and I note that on 17 February the figures, at least an incidence, were identical to today, and I asked him: Mr Minister, will the pandemic law suffice you? Do you realize that the legal convention will not, for example, be possible to limit the free movement of persons? The minister said to me, "It will be enough." I really remember, I asked quite deliberately, yet the Prime Minister called on the Minister. And all of a sudden, it's not enough. Then why did we write the pandemic law? Why did we put him together when he just has to be higher up, he has to be an emergency at all costs? It doesn't make any sense at all, so we have adopted a law according to which only mandatory testing is currently regulated, but the ambition was completely different. We're aware that the voices are here to prolong the emergency situation, they'll somehow be found, but it's a shame. It is a pity that we have devoted our efforts here to the preparation of the pandemic law, but to continue to follow the law of crisis, to take crisis measures, and all the good that is in that pandemic law has come to nothing. I believe that next week there will be some discussion with the Minister of Health about the concrete form of return to normal, about the modification of the PES system as announced by Mrs. Chief Hygiene, and I believe that in the future we will look for more agreement and the words of the Minister of Health about the fact that from this... from our plan to return to normal, they will be fulfilled and put into life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. It is now Mr Leo Luzar's turn to prepare President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, have been mentioned here several times by the KSČM. Personally, as Leo Luzar, an MP, I don't have to agree with the emergency situation, I've criticized him a lot here, and I have reservations all the time. As a member of the KSČM I am obliged to honor the decision of my political body and I am doing so. Don't blame me, I do this because a political body in a political party is a very important matter. But what I'm experiencing here today is déjà vu. Déjà vu situation 30 days ago. Déjà vu situation, when here from the right side we heard the same words about how the concept doesn't work, how antivirus doesn't work, how subsidy programs work badly, how everyone suffers, how entrepreneurs don't - we heard everything here. And the result was that the emergency was over. And what happened? Let us answer what has happened, dear right-wing politicians whose captains, instead of taking over the power you are calling for to free the businessmen's hands, to allow them to do business to take care of their regions, to take care of their communities, so your captains ran to the government and convinced them to continue the emergency situation. You forget that very quickly, and now you're using exactly the same arguments as they sounded back then. And that's the hypocrisy you're showing people. On the one hand, you fight in the breasts as you fight for them, and when you got the responsibility, your captains didn't find the courage and ran to the government of the hated Andrej Babiš and begged him to prolong the emergency. And the Communists weren't involved, we don't have the governor. That was you and answer it in front of your own voters. You should realize that, and you should realize that, even the citizens who are watching us, because what we're experiencing here every time, and there's already been one possibility. We believe that the government will use the maximum of 14 days to fulfill everything that it has said, what it promised and what all citizens of the Czech Republic expect. And in 14 days, I firmly believe that we will all know about this and we will be convinced of what the situation looks like and that the pandemic will be in retreat. But let's really talk the way those things were. There's been a time, there was a possibility, there was no emergency, and let's just say who was the instigator of his sequel. Let's say it and the citizens hear it and see it - it was you and your captains, your political parties that allowed the emergency to continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u108	Good afternoon. This was Mr Luzar's speech as Vice-President of the club, now Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala, Mr Jan Blatný will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u109	Thank you. Dear government, colleagues, colleagues, I will basically fluently follow up on my previous speaker Leo Luzar, because, of course, the chairman of the ODS club, President of the ODS, wanted to impose on us that we are some kind of government advance. Of course, I must reject it immediately, and I will use the argument that Leo Luzar said that basically your captains came to the government when they were given responsibility, and they acted as government captains and asked for an emergency. That means part of your political parties, where you have the captains, asked the government for an emergency and, de facto, begged that the emergency situation be restored. What happened? What happened next is very interesting. What happened was that the government itself declared an emergency, even though the Chamber of Deputies had not approved it before, and some senators filed a complaint with the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court said there was a procedural error in the constitutional complaint, however, when you read the judgment, you will find that the Constitutional Court states that declaring an emergency was an unconstitutional act. That means we've already had an unconstitutional emergency situation here once. [[17.10 hours]] So again, it's not the SPD. And the SPD may be out of place, which may be difficult for some political parties to understand, and that is because the reason, the only principle why we are here, the basic thing we are voting for is the Czech Republic. I've prepared a few things to prove that we're no government backup like the SPD, but we're voting with everyone who votes according to our electoral program for the good of the people. And I can tell you that with the ODS, we voted to cancel the super-gross wage. There's more money left in people's wallets. With the ODS, we voted to include the compensation law so that people in the coronavirus, companies, businessmen, get more money. With the ODS, we voted in favour of abolishing real estate tax so that people do not pay any more taxes, and basically the SPD votes in favour of every bill or amendment, where it was about reducing or abolishing any tax. But to not only talk about ODS, I can also talk about pirát. pirát and I voted in favour of a slippery mandate; Pirates and I voted in favour of their proposal for a watering bill, where a small promile of alcohol is allowed, or, according to our best knowledge and conscience, we voted with pirát to strengthen the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, which I believe is a very important matter. And now this has been proven in the pandemic crisis, when the Supreme Audit Office came up with the results that we talked about here today, which are at least for the resignation of the government. So it was still my statement to what the chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura said here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u110	I thank Mr Radim Fial. Now with priority rights, Mr. Minister of Health Jan Blatný and once again a colleague of Stanjura applied. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond very briefly, through Mr President, to Mr Feri's comment on the pandemic law. Let us just remember that when we talked about this, that is, in the middle of February, it really was. Unfortunately, the situation subsequently changed rather dramatically. We had to close down some counties first, and then, unfortunately, all of them. And the pandemic law - we certainly all know that it will not go to waste, on the contrary. I am very glad that I have said it here today that we have been able to agree on it, because once the emergency situation has passed - where we are, I will repeat again that the restrictions on movement by 99 percent of all experts are necessary at least until after Easter - and once these restrictions and with them will pass, if you decide today as I ask you, then the pandemic law will be very necessary and will probably be needed for a longer period of time, and it will be a pandemic law that will together allow us to release the situation so that we do not again put this country at risk thanks to the pandemic. And once again, I'm glad we were able to prepare him like this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u112	I thank the Minister of Health. Even a colleague of Stanjura's checked in. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u113	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to respond first only to Mr Luzar's words, but then President Radim Fiala joined, so I will take it clean from one water. The captains are doing their job perfectly, I have a need to defend them, and not just ours, who are from ODS. I remind you that we are part of 13 regional councils. By the way, 13 representatives throughout the republic in 14 regions have communists. Great result of regional elections! 13 more than I would have imagined, but still a good result! The Constitutional Court also stated that the request of the authorities was perfectly correct under the law. They used what they could, they asked the government, only the government should have reacted differently. Read the decision, or the decision of the Constitutional Court. First of all. Secondly, it is not true that the fight against pandemics is a matter of regions. One thing is the government's responsibility, not the captains, who very often correct the shortcomings that the government will cause. Let us remember the first debate in December about vaccination here with the Minister of Health Blatný, who rejected vaccination centres as unnecessary. Our captains built them, and it turns out that's right. And when I say our captains, I don't mean just four ODS officers. I know there's an excellent method for the government: if something goes wrong, it's the government's fault, and if something goes wrong, it's the government's fault. I attribute it only to the political jealousy of those who were not successful in the regional elections, rather than to appreciate the enormous work that the authorities and their people have done, because they are never just the governor, they are a big team of people, they are taking away, so here they attack, criticize, ridicule, ironize. I think that's a mistake. Once again, I'd like to thank them and their teams, their crisis crews, because they're doing an extremely good job. Today and daily, he solves the situation in his hospitals. They deserve to be thanked and admired, not the senseless and cheap criticism of parties that were not successful in the regional elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u114	That was the last logged in... My colleague Luzar is still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u115	I'll allow myself to delay slightly, and only a short line to my previous speaker, through you. Let's go back 30 days. And what did it say here? The exact same words that were spoken today, and everyone who spoke them, prayed quietly and hoped for the emergency to continue, and he didn't continue, he quit. And what happened? Panic. And the same thing could happen today. What if the emergency situation doesn't pass and we're facing the exact same problem as we did 30 days ago? And if anyone thinks that the pandemic law that's been passed is good, it's not. When we pointed it out, it was said here, no, he's vetted, he's fine, he's perfect. We spent hours and hours on him, but he changed his mind. Remember, colleagues, what a good job you've done and how you had to adjust, because you've found that there are mistakes. You just lie and lie and lie to the citizens. And that's the basic problem, because 30 days ago, there was an emergency and he didn't have to go on, but your captains pushed it through!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u116	Now, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, at this moment, the last one to be logged in to the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u117	Thank you for the floor. I present an alternative to two proposals from the SPOLU workshop in the area of restrictions on the movement of residents within the districts. So I propose an alternative version of the two points, namely the first one: "The Chamber of Deputies requests the government to put an end to the measures limiting the movement of residents within the counties no later than 6. 4. 2021'. This means, instead of "save" it is given "requested" and the deadline is added - no later than 6. 4. 2021. And the second resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the government to end checks on citizens at the county border no later than 6. 4. 2021'. The proposal is simple. We believe that it makes sense to limit the mobility of the population to Easter. We fear that if mobility is increased significantly now, there may be a similar phenomenon to the Christmas holidays when the disease has spread significantly. For this reason, we agree that the lockdown will last until this moment, but we are willing to accept that the moment ends, so that from Tuesday the movement will be released, then after Easter Monday. So this is the alternative. [[17.20 hours]] I also wanted to ask for a vote on both the proposals of the coalition of the SPOL and the proposals of the coalition of the Pirates and the Mayors on points, or even sub-items, because they are voteable separately. One last thing. We will not support the 14 days of extension, which was suggested by the Communists, even though we think it makes sense to keep some measures at least until the end of Easter holidays. However, we consider it a fundamental mistake that the government's compensation to entrepreneurs who are closed as a result of these measures is not sufficient, and I am asking you very much to support those resolutions which are aimed at increasing these compensations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u118	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. Mr. Marek Benda. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u119	Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen. So now my colleague Ferjenčík has provoked me a little bit with his idea of keeping everything closed for Easter. I think it's a scary mistake, a scary mistake, and I'm gonna blame the minister and the government if the situation, especially in Prague, blows up after Easter - by increasing the number of people infected. I don't know if we realize what Easter is and what's the difference between Easter and Christmas. Christmas goes shopping, everybody goes to visit. They're supposed to be 20 in the day next week. In Prague you have in the territory where the green fact is - we are a relatively green city, one of the greenest cities in Europe of the big ones - but there is very little greenery. I don't count Easter, but four days off - where are these people gonna be? As of today, the parks are crowded, crowded, and now you're banning them from crossing the county borders and everyone stay in that Prague. I really think it's a terrible mistake. It will not be followed - we will either have conflicts at the borders of Prague or there will be so many people on the streets that we will eventually have a problem in Prague, which has avoided all problems so far, and which has avoided them even though no district measures apply here, yet, according to the index "dog" we are best off from the whole republic. I very much ask the Minister, he has five more days until next Thursday to consider the requests that came from Prague and the Central Bohemia Region, at least to open those side districts. It's just that if people go to their cabin and they're locked up and they don't go anywhere, nobody gets hurt. If everyone's gonna be in these parks, it's gonna be bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u120	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Another colleague Bláha, then a colleague Ivan Bartoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u121	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really must respond because it is outrageous what is being said here. All this time, I've been suffering from how it sounds that there's been no restriction on movement. All those who say so, so I say to everyone: Go look at those highways, come to us, north or south, to the villages and places that you from Prague and the big cities visit in the big city. Or compare it with what sounded when the slopes weren't open, but they were full, crowded - nobody kept anything there. And now it sounds that there will be a problem in Prague if we don't let the Prague Pražák in our village. So there might be a problem in our village? Look at the numbers up north. Do you think it came from meeting me from Liberec with those in Semily or Turnov or something? No way. It was created because we were crowded, crowded by everyone who came from the big cities to our village to enjoy the cottage. And you think they were locked up? Well, they weren't locked up because everyone went to those places. Go see Sychrov, go see Ještěd when it's open. Go and look at all the places that are normally visited a lot, and you'll find that no one is following anything. If there's an open window, there's a happy eating, without a drape, without keeping the spacing. If people go out there to play sports and meet there, they don't follow anything. So I'd like you to realize that real life is different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u122	Thank you, Mr Bláh. Now, Mr Ivan Bartoš, Mr Dominik Feri will be ready. I guess my ambition to conclude the debate was odd. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u123	I would only react briefly to Mr Bláha through Mr President. Of course, as part of the current permits for nature, they go to those places within the district, too. I'm from Jablonec. I know that Jablonec just walks around the Jizera Mountains, and it's not like a person shows up and says "Prague" on his head. You presented it by pouring Prague into the whole Republic and causing problems there. However, mobility alone is not problematic. The problem is the irresponsible behavior of those people who meet and maybe have a garden party in that place, but it's not that they're some cottages. Unfortunately, this is also happening in the Czech Republic where these people simply live. I would only like to see Marek Benda very quickly, through Mr President. We, of course, support the proposal, which is also consensual, where the Chamber of Deputies places the Minister of the Interior to resolve the situation between Prague and the Central Bohemia Region and allow for this movement. So that's what we're going to vote for. And then it's crucial to us when you have a recreational object that you own - and as I say, mobility itself is not a risk, it's a risk of behavior on the spot, like if you were meeting there in a larger amount - so also to allow movement to the recreational object that you own. That's what I think there are two things that complement maybe even the misunderstood, or at least that's how I understood the beginning of the show or Marek Benda's performance. So we support these two things for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u124	Now, Dominik Feri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u125	Thank you for the floor. For me, it is a big surprise that colleague Bláha, through Mr President, actually says that government measures are not working. That's great. Mr. Colleague, vote with us, do not support the request to extend the emergency situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u126	Thank you. I don't see anyone reporting to the debate, I'm done with the debate. We shall proceed to the vote if there is no interest in the final word. Mr. Health Minister? He's not interested in the final word. The rapporteur, who I do not envy the role, but I am sure he is ready. But before the final vote, Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura came forward. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I repeat that the SPD does not agree with the extension of the emergency situation, because flat bans are not a path and lockdown is not a solution. Let's fight the virus, not the people. [[17.30 hours]] We see that you are not listening to our arguments, and we need to see how we can convince you not to vote in favour of extending the emergency situation at the parliamentary club, just as the SPD did. For the SPD, I say that we will fight until the last moment to avoid prolonging the emergency situation, even though we know that we are here in the Chamber of Deputies in a minority. That's why we're gonna take a two-hour recess to allow you to think again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u128	The President of the Chamber of Deputies is still reporting with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u129	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman of the SPD movement warned us a little bit, so I'm partially prepared. I would like to say to the requested break that we are moving in a special regime today, we are discussing an emergency situation, the entire House, the whole process is governed by paragraph 109m, when, as you know, the speaking time is limited, which we voted on, it is not possible to have factual remarks and it is something extraordinary at all that they have not experienced in other parliamentary periods. The break itself is not treated in the Rules of Procedure at all, it is a custom, it is a gentleman's custom, which follows here in normal negotiations. To those two hours. We agreed at the beginning of the parliamentary term because there are nine clubs, so we thought Gentlemanly again that we would usually take a maximum of an hour. I would rest on the fingers of one hand when it didn't stick, but it always had meaning. For example, once our colleague rescued us from a completely impeccable debate and ended it on Friday. However, the two hours go beyond, first, and second, I think we are in a special mode § 109m, where the custom is not created, that the breaks are allowed. When I refer purely to Section 55 of the Rules of Procedure, it simply states that, at the initiative of the President or the President of the Club, someone may request a suspension of a meeting or a point immediately voted on. I therefore suggest that, in this extraordinary case, in this extraordinary time, we proceed in this extraordinary discussion in accordance with Section 55 and, therefore, on the basis of... I would also like to point out that the President of the club or the President should make a request for interruption, but this is a marginality, I assume that President Fiala will say so in turn. I suggest we vote on the break. I disagree with her and let her vote on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u130	Mr. President of the SPD, Radim Fiala, then Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, reporting. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u131	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to comply with the letter of the Chamber of Deputies' Rules of Procedure, I propose a two-hour break for the SPD club's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u132	Okay. Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u133	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am acting as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I consider it a mistake to make President Vondráček's proposal. I do not have the opportunity to prevent it and certainly has the opportunity to make such a proposal, but really breaks are not treated in the Rules of Procedure and it is part of some culture, tradition, habit, we always observe it, we do not vote on them. I would consider it a mistake if we voted on it now. I also don't like to be here on Friday nights and two hours waiting to hear from the SPD club when we know it in advance, but that's another thing, the important thing is: let's not introduce habits here, or let's not break the customs that work here, let's not introduce a new habit. It's gonna be a big mistake, we're all gonna pay for it someday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u134	Okay. Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u135	Well, I just want to say that we have a consistent position, so we don't have to talk about our position, but we just wanted to think about how to convince you to vote against the extension of the emergency situation, and I was saying - so that we could give you some space to think about it one more time. That's why we want to take a two-hour break, it's exactly the opposite. But to go to what I wanted to say, I would really like to say that the SPD, as you know, we have never used the Institute to take a break. We're the MPs club that takes those breaks at least here in the House. You all have to admit that. It is only in the most serious case where we really see politically that this is a problem for us, and we want to give room to other parties to think about our arguments. Therefore, I would ask you to comply with our proposal for a two-hour break, because again I say, we are a club that actually takes at least those breaks. So I just wanted to ask you. And if the President of the Chamber of Deputies says that this is going to be a vote, then I just disagree with it, but if you're going to make it majority here, despite us, 19 members of the SPD, it's 19 to 200, so we're here in a minority, then we're going to vote here. Then, if we don't get two hours off, of course, I'm gonna go on the microphone again, so I'm gonna suggest an hour if you let go, if you don't, half an hour, and we're just gonna vote on it, because it's really a problem for us. We do not want to prolong the emergency situation, and we want you to really have time to think about our arguments so that we do not prolong the emergency situation, because citizens can no longer handle it. Citizens just can't take it anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u136	I respect priority rights. President Marian Jurečka has now applied. I see Mr. House President's application. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u137	Thank you. I would ask, through Mr President, a message to President Okamur. There is no Pitomio in our KDU-ČSL. We've been listening to this debate for seven hours, we know how to vote, and we don't need you to take a break for us. If you need a break, tell yourself you don't know how you want to vote, you need to consult, that's what breaks are for the MPs to consult with each other, but you don't have to take a break for us. I don't know about the other parties, but you really don't have to take a break because of us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u138	I have an application from the President of the House and the Chairman of the SPD Club. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u139	Now I'm a little sorry that I started this because I wanted to stay on some material level. It's not important, it's important, it's important not to be insulted and insulted. With great respect for what Vice-President Fiala said, I always approach this, and I don't want to intrude on the routine here, but I really have the opinion that the emergency has never developed and that these regimes should be separated. Plus, I pointed out the gentleman's deal. When President Okamura actually told himself that he wanted a break to think about the rest of us, it's not a break for a club meeting. I'm quoting a piece of what Vice-President Okamura said about three hours ago: "We just want to prevent this extension of the emergency situation. I'm telling you straight. We were really prepared to drag this discussion through here to prevent the emergency situation from being prolonged here today." A little further away: "We wanted to block it. We wanted to block this meeting so it wouldn't prolong the emergency. I'm gonna be straight with you." So President Okamura has made it clear that it is obstructive. I'm convinced we don't have an emergency routine to behave this obstructive way. Even the House must have some defense mechanism against such obstructions that are being implemented to a large extent. For this reason, with respect to what Vice-President Fiala has said, I have a similar opinion, but in this case, I really ask that the House, as a sovereign, decide to vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 55.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u140	Mr. Chairman of the SPD Radim Fiala Club and I'm going to ask someone for a replacement, I want to take part in this debate as well. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u141	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I have to say, if the sněmovna wants to vote on our request, I don't think we can stop it. But I want to say two more things. The first is that Vice-President of the House of Okamura said that we want a break for us, of course, to consult on another strategy to convince you and convince us for the SPD, and of course for you, because you also have something to discuss. So that's the first thing. And the other thing. It is a great disappointment to me the speech of the President of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, who insults Members here and only declared here what the level of KDU-ČSL and the coalition of SPOLU is. Thank you for showing us all this in front of the TV cameras.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u142	Now Vice-President Pikal has applied. Then I'll get out. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u143	Thank you for the floor. I've been waiting for some kind of hacking of habits. First of all, I'd like to say that our club - thank you for the offer to consult, but we don't need it. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] So if the SPD needs advice, that's new information, of course. However, the whole time it sounded like the point is to use it obstructively. And while it is customary to use customary breaks and obstructively, I think that in the case of matters concerning the security of the Republic, we should simply respect mechanisms that prevent obstructive action, because at such a time it is necessary to make a decision, however it may be. I do not anticipate how our club will vote and how we will vote on individual options. However, here, in this case, I must stand by to follow the letter of the Rules of Procedure and vote on the break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u144	With priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u145	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, I think I'm the only person next to Marek Benda who remembers the time this custom came about. I don't have to agree politically with what the ODS says or what the political party says. But I have experienced a very dramatic situation, and I must say that the President of the ODS, Petr Fiala, is right. If we say we're gonna stop honoring certain rules, we're on the right track to end badly. I'm very upset about the break. I have certain responsibilities that I thought I'd be able to do tonight, but my family is... [[Fun, laughter, applause and pounding into the benches.]] Thank you. Thank you. I'll deliver it to the grandkids. [[Re-roaring in the hall.]] But I'm gonna finish this, and I'm gonna text my wife. Thank you for making a nice joke that you understood. Let me put it this way: I'll turn it around. If the President decides that I will continue to preside, I will declare the break as President, because I respect the agreements. But I will, and that's why I asked for a performance, if the SPD wouldn't kindly leave the club for its meeting and meeting with the other clubs for just one hour. That's my request, my request, a decent request to political opponents, but also to colleagues. That's what I think is polite. And he forced me to do that speech that Radim Fiala correctly condemned, who was made here by the chairman of the KDU-ČSL. You're not supposed to do that! Through the President, President Marian Jurečka, I have never dared to do this, and even the greatest of my opponents have not dared to do so even to me. And there were far more violent situations than this one. I would like you to apologize to Vice-President Tomio Okamur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u146	Now I'm just explaining. I'm supposed to take turns at 5:30, not that I'm gonna usurp the chair, but I think we're gonna make it in some kind of right atmosphere. Now I know that Prime Minister Kubíček has applied, but I don't know who he was... I'm sorry, first President Stanjura. I have taken over the proceedings, and the President has applied to Vice-President Filip, so President Stanjura. And I don't know which one of you. Try to make a deal, best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u147	Experience says that if someone wants a two-hour break, and now we're going to have a procedural argument about whether or not to vote on it, it's going to take three hours. We're gonna argue for an hour, and then we're gonna take the break. Our club, if we vote on this, will vote against restricting the right to take a break. On gentlemen's agreements, sometimes it's awkward that once you're comfortable with it, you don't. That's why it's called a gentleman's agreement. I think the only reason this dispute is because it's Friday. If it was Thursday or Wednesday, the feud wasn't so heated. I've got it home exactly 392 kilometers, so I'm definitely not one of those who doesn't care when we're done. Nevertheless, I insist that customs and unwritten rules should be followed. Maybe last term, I'm the third term here, we didn't create an emergency habit because we never had one. But I don't see any reason why these rules don't apply, even if we're acting on this paragraph. I would say one thing to the chairman of the meeting. It was obviously a procedural proposal, which should be voted on without debate. I say we vote no. I recommend a vote. I suppose there'll be a two-hour break after that. I'll meet you later. Or we could have another hour to discuss whether or not to vote, so we don't meet at 7:45, but at 8:45, that's the second option. But we should consider that once something is used, the one who's using it today will complain someday. And our experience from the government and from the opposition commands us to be balanced and respect gentlemen's agreements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u148	Vice-President Kubíček with priority rights, then Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember when we started voting on the emergency situation and we met in half the format that those breaks were valid, but there was an agreement for one hour. I'd like to remind you. That's just the way it was. So I'd ask if the chairman of the SPD wouldn't modify his application, and we'll respect it. And the other thing. I respect you all very much. I don't have to agree with you, I'm having a lot of debate here and so on. But I dare you to treat each other politely. We're human! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u150	Thank you. Vice-President Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u151	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to observe the customs and rules that have been here for years in the Chamber of Deputies, and for the reasons I have said, to allow us to take a two-hour break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u152	Mr. Chairman Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u153	Thank you. I have two things. First thing, to the foreman colleague Kubíček. I respect that. I remember when your chairman, Andrej Babiš, was screaming "drunk drunk" right here. And I guess it wasn't exactly correct either. However, I apologize to Tomio Okamur. I wanted to tell you that the proposal seemed stupid to me. I'm sorry I put it that way, it doesn't belong here. But I really don't think the two hours are ideal. However, I respect that, let's not change customs. If you're really asking for two hours, keep them on Friday afternoons or evenings. We're all far away. I'm also going to Moravia for over three hours to go home to my family, to five kids. I don't care, okay, but let's not change customs. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u154	Thank you. If it's all from priority rights, I'm in a position to be a little uncomfortable right now that I just started driving, but I'm gonna vote on my proposal. So if you don't mind, I'm already sitting here. The motion was made to vote on the House's interruption for those two hours to decide whether to interrupt for two hours. [[A commotion in the hall.]] President Stanjura would like to be more precise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u155	I'm sorry. There was no motion to interrupt, so we can't vote to interrupt. In my opinion, the resolution is that we do not comply with a two-hour recess request. This is a proposal that we should vote on that we do not - or we do. Choose which one you want. But we will vote on the request, as you said, Mr President, for a two-hour break, not a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u156	So, if the application's in order. The Chamber of Deputies does not respond to requests for two hours' break. That means who votes 'yes', so it's for the break not to take place. Or do you want it the other way around? Both are possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u157	Vice-President Pikal still reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u158	Thank you for the floor. I would ask that there be a process, so purely according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, there is a proposal for a two-hour interruption. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] No, I didn't get involved. Let me finish. Purely according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, there has been a proposal for a two-hour interruption, which is customary to respect and give that break. There was a call from the President of the House for us to follow the letter of the Rules of Procedure and vote. Now the question is whether we will follow the letter of the Rules of Procedure or proceed according to the custom. Either the President will follow the custom and grant, or he will not follow the custom, and then it is possible to object here to the President's procedure, but I do not know if we want to go this way. So I would be in favour of voting on the break as proposed, according to the letter of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u159	President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u160	As I regretted a moment ago that it had lost the material plane, I'm starting to regret that I even suggested it because we're starting to lose it. So I'm suggesting something completely different, I'm taking back my proposal, and one more time, I want to have a sad look at the chairman of the SPD. Wouldn't an hour really be enough? [[Glee in the hall.]] I'll try again. I'll let you out of here. You'd at least cut it short for humane reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u161	Since I can't give anyone who doesn't have the right to... [[Restlessness in the room.]] Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL Club with priority rights. And otherwise, I'm gonna ask to announce her from 5:30 to 2:00. I, as the chairman of the request, would have accepted it, so I would have declared it, but unfortunately, there was a debate that is out of the ordinary. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u162	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say what's going on here. It's just that we agreed mostly that we didn't need to consult. The SPD club said he didn't take the break for himself, but for us, so it just doesn't matter if it's an hour or two. I respect agreements, it's just their right, I don't take it away from them, I wouldn't vote for it to be violated. But what are we talking about? Not us, but the employees are gonna be here an hour longer or two for nothing, because it's not gonna change the situation. Let's just break up with that and not beg each other here. If the SPD wants us to be here, but mostly employees, two hours longer, or an hour later, it doesn't matter. Our job is to stay here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Members of the Government, I am declaring a break for the SPD's meeting until 19.30, i.e. from the moment it was requested. I'm taking this debate because it was off the mark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u164	Have a good evening. There was a break at the request of the SPD until 7:30. So now we're going to proceed... Did I hear a knock? No. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Maybe it's still coming, but... [[With a smile.]] So, with priority rights, President of the House of Radek Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u165	I apologize to everyone in advance. I hope we've all spent two productive hours - less than. I spent them productively. I just want to read to you the next time you talk about my proposal, I'll read you something that happened... [[There's a "no" coming from the diaper.]] I know you don't want it, but I want it. Mr President, instruct others that they should not shout at me. It's 2012. A Mrs Klasnová suggested taking a break from the club for two hours, President Němcová chaired. However, Mr Stanjura then stepped forward and said: "It is quite unusual, I propose to vote on it. Clamp - applause." [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] To that, Mrs. Klasnová: "And if today's two-hour pause is to be voted on, then I want to say that this will lead to a certain precedent that will always have to be followed here." [[There's laughter.]] "So that the Chamber of Deputies would realize it. And it is indeed something against the Rules of Procedure and against the entire practice of the Chamber of Deputies." At that, Mr Stanjura: 'It is not against the Rules of Procedure'. [[Laughs in the hall.]] "The Rules of Procedure do not say anything. It's legitimate to suggest it, it's legitimate to vote on it. Yes, I understand what you said that if we vote now, we'll vote next time. Nevertheless, I insist on my proposal that we vote on this. [[Let's hear it.]] " I said, it was at half past midnight. It was 12:30 a.m., it was a church restitution. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Madam President Němcová: "Let us, then, let the Chamber of Deputies decide now. Who agrees with Mr Stanjura, who objects to the break? Present 100, for 97, versus 1. There will be no break. [[Let's hear it.]] " Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u166	The chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u167	[[Off the microphone:]] In case the Prime Minister lends me the paper.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u168	Yeah, well, the chairman wants to see if you can borrow the paper. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u169	So I don't know which one of you is gonna be applauding you again after 8.5 years. [[Fun, applause.]] However, we memorials know what we're talking about, but for the others, we kind of know the context. The meeting started... That's the vote on Thursday, November 8th at 0.30. Just before the end of his eighth two-hour performance, Lubomír Zaorálek. [[Big laugh in the hall.]] The point where they wanted a break started on Tuesday, November 6, 14 was not a break, that's right, but the point ended on Saturday, November 11. So we've been discussing this for six days and six nights without the break, so it seems pretty much enough to me. Chairman Fiala also said it's legitimate, and you see, the precedent didn't come up. But I promise that if - but we don't - if the ODS causes an obstruction that lasts six days and six nights, and the third night one of you proposes a break or protests a break, I will say: Yes, you're right, nine years ago it happened too. But the context is completely different than today, we only started at 9:00, it's not even 9:00, so today we're going 12 hours. This has been 14 o'clock since Tuesday. Just to remind you, I came to the House at 9:00 in the morning -- grémium, clubs, press conference, nothing suspicious, and for the first time I left without being the only hour of sleep, on Thursday, not at 0.30, but around 10:30. So there was a new tradition and a new custom. Do you know when the meeting day ends? The day of the hearing ends the next day at 8 a.m. So Tuesday's meeting day ended Wednesday at 8:00, Wednesday at 9:00 a.m., a new meeting day began on Thursday at 8:00 a.m., and a new meeting day began, and so on, and then we voted after six days and six nights. I remind you that at that time the House's leadership had four members, and since there was no trust in what Lubomír Zaorálek would do - I think it is necessary to tell the truth, because the President can stop the meeting at any time, it is his right, even if it is not being used - so three ladies, those six days and six nights, have taken turns for the rest of us. [[with laughter]] [[Laughing in the hall]] I'm just reminding you, I always... That was 0.20, so I suppose an hour later, I'd have to look, I'd have to run up, showered, smelled infamous David Rath, came to the microphone at this place, yelled, "Night service to the ČSSD reporting arrival, suggest we stop discussing that point by three years." And so it was six days and six nights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u170	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for the historic reminder. And I'll also remind you of one thing. At that time, KSČM's opposition and social democracy had never abused the fact that the third reading would only be on Wednesday and Friday. Never. You're the one doing the whole term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u172	I don't have any more applications. Mrs Procházková will vote with replacement card number 23. So I will engage and we will now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency situation' - and now I have the alternative proposals. Okay, first of all. The government is asking... I can hear you now. [[Knocking]] I'll check you out. Please sign up again with your voting cards. So now I'm going to say the options. We will vote in order by the so-called indicative vote. Excuse me? So, vice president of the club... with a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u173	I wanted to put forward a procedural proposal in order to avoid those indicative votes that seem logical to me to vote from the longest extension to the shortest. I think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u174	Yes, it's also an option. Because I heard here when I sat here that there was an interest in an indicative vote. So let me ask you, does anyone object to us voting in order? [[No one's checking in.]] He doesn't, okay. I'll read it anyway, so we can keep track of what the designs are. So the government is asking for an extension of the emergency period until April 27th. Furthermore, we have two proposals, so we will vote with one vote, Mr Leo Luzar and Mr Kubíček, until 11 April. The third proposal will be by 9 April, the fourth proposal by 7 April, and did the pirát say anything in the speech by 6 April? No. Well, that's what I had here, like I heard it, so I'm just asking. I'm gonna reengage. [[19.40 hours]] We will therefore now vote on this motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 27 April 2021'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 102 Members registered, for 45, against 47. The motion was denied. Second, we will vote on Mr Leo Luzar's proposal in the name of the KSČM and Mr Kubíček for the ANO movement. [[Laughing in the hall]] And it is a proposal where I will read the resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to extend the emergency period until 11 April 2021'. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 103 Members registered, for 53, versus 34. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] So I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the emergency situation will be extended until 11 April 2021. Mr rapporteur, do we have any resolutions here? Mr. Rapporteur? [[Yes.]] Please. You have the floor and let us know the order we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u175	Yes. I have three accompanying resolutions here, two of which are merged together. Thus, the first accompanying resolution - colleague Munzar: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister of Health to allow for the movement of persons in the built-up territory of a municipality without breathing protection in cases where a person moves probligably alone or only with a member of the common household, i.e. at a sufficiently safe distance from other persons.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u176	So, we know what we're voting on. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 100 Members registered, for 55, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u177	Thank you. In fact, we now have a motion for a resolution which is tabled by the SPOL, i.e. ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, and to this proposal we have additional or corrective proposals for the pirát. So I'll always read two things, one is the ODS proposal. If it doesn't work, there's a pirate option. First of all, the draft resolution of the COO: 'The Chamber of Deputies is ordering the government to put an end to measures restricting the movement of residents within the counties'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u178	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 100 Members registered, for 37, versus 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u179	Yes. In that case, I must read another proposal which belongs to the pirát: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to end the measures limiting the movement of residents within the district by no later than 6. 4. 2021'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u180	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 99 Members registered, for 56, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. Thus, the second variant presented by the pirát falls, and we continue with the draft resolutions of the Association: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the Minister of the Interior to allow movement between Prague and the Central Bohemia Region in the context of the persistent restrictions on movement, since it is particularly in the ring of districts around Prague for interlinked territories in the area of economic, services and health care."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u182	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 100 Members registered, for 52, against 4. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u183	Yes, thank you. Next: "The Chamber of Deputies orders the government to end checks on citizens at the county border as a measure -'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u184	Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I object to the fact that you have been misheard. There's noise about, so please, calm down in the Chamber, let everyone hear what a resolution is. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u185	"The Chamber of Deputies imposes on the government the end of checks on citizens at the border of counties as a measure which does not bring effect and interferes excessively with the rights of citizens."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u186	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 11, registered by 101 Members, for 40, against 3. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u187	Next: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the government to publish all contracts concluded for purchases during an emergency period."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u188	Did we all hear that? [[Yes.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 97 Members signed in for 48, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u189	Thank you. And now there is an alternative proposal from the pirát: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the government to put an end to checks on citizens at the county border no later than 6. 4. 2021'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u190	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 99 Members signed in for 57, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u191	Thank you. For another: "The Chamber of Deputies obliges the Government to submit information to the Government by the end of March 2021 on the implementation of the resolution of 11 February, which the Government undertook to prepare a programme for the rescue of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the form of the remission of contributions from businessmen and social insurance contributions for small companies, i.e. the renewal of the Antivirus C programme."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u192	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 100 Members registered, for 51, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u193	Thank you. And the last point: "The Chamber of Deputies imposes on the Government the opening of kindergartens, first grade primary schools and parts of other schools no later than 12. 4. 2021, together with ensuring the careful testing of pupils and teachers and the rapid completion of teacher vaccination.';
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u194	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 100 Members registered, for 51, against none. The motion was accepted. Mr. Cernohorsky? Wait a minute. Mr. Ambassador, any objection to the vote or the procedure for voting...? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I voted in favour of the number 12 vote, but I'm stuck on drugs. It was the contracts. I question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u196	You're questioning the vote. So vote number twelve. So we have here a motion from Mr Cernohorsky, who is questioning vote number twelve. So we'll let you vote on your objection. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 102 Members registered, for 100, against none. The motion was accepted. So, Mr rapporteur, can you read again what we will be voting on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u197	Yes, I will read: "The Chamber of Deputies requires the government to publish all contracts concluded for purchases during an emergency period. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u198	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 99 Members registered, for 49, against none. The motion was denied. There.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. I therefore believe that the whole motion for a resolution is exhausted. We have here the last accompanying resolution that comes from the pirát pen. I assume you're going to want to vote for him on a case-by-case basis. It follows from the logic of the matter. So point 1: "calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to clarify why it did not order all available vaccines from a joint purchase mediated by the European Union, with a deadline until 7 April 2021'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u200	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 101 Members signed in for 52, versus 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u201	Thank you. Again: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to negotiate with the states that have surplus vaccines approved for the European market, about the delivery of vaccines against covid to the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u202	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 101 Members registered, for 48, against 2. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u203	Thank you. Further: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to focus on the preparation of sufficient vaccine capacities."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u204	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 20, registered by 101 Members, for 48, against 2. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u205	Yes, thank you. For another: "It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to draw up and present to the public an overview of the quality of recommended antigen test sets based on available professional literature by 7 April 2021."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u206	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 21, 101 Members registered, for 58, versus 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u207	Thank you. For another: "The Government requests to make the following changes in government aid to entrepreneurs - a) to mitigate the condition of a decline in sales from current 50 per cent to 40 per cent for entry into the COVID program - Uncovered costs also COVID 2021."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u208	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 101 Members registered, for 50, against none. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u209	Next: "Increase the upper limit of the aid granted to the COVID - Uncovered costs to 70 per cent of fixed costs'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u210	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 101 Members registered, for 50, against none. The motion was denied. Please. [[Request for a vote check.]] Yes. One moment, rapporteur. Mr. Ferjenčík? Then we wait. That's your right. [[Member Marian Jurečka is reporting.]] ano, Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u211	I'm gonna take advantage of this for a little while before my colleague Ferjenčík does a vote check. I just want to make a brief summary of how the House actually decides and votes. So when the emergency was prolonged, there was a majority for term 11. 4. There was then a vote on a resolution on restrictions on movement and control at the county border, and this was the majority for the term 6. 4. So please, you, the majority, go explain to these people why they're after 6. 4. the emergency is because logically there are only two reasons for restricting movement and coming out of people after 9:00 p.m., and that the government can continue to award contracts for the last few days without tenders. That's the only two reasons for six. 4. why you extended the emergency. I absolutely don't understand. And I congratulate the majority here who voted that contracts that have been concluded by the government for the duration of the emergency will not be published.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u212	Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip. Mr. Rapporteur, just a moment. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Through you, President Marian Jurečka. And you're gonna do those soldiers to those hospitals without emergency? By decision of the Chief of Staff, who doesn't want to do it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u214	Now for the vote, Mrs Golasowská. Please, yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u215	Thank you for the floor. I am very sorry, but I would like to call into question the vote number 22. I voted in favour, and I'm late for high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u216	Yes, I understand. So we will vote on the objection of Mrs Golasowská, who is questioning the vote. [[The MP was not enough to return to the bench.]] Well, I'm sorry. I'm canceling the vote (vote 24) so you can return to your seat. So wait, I'm gonna end the vote, I didn't realize that. Let the lady, when she votes on her own objection, return to her seat. First, I'll ask if you agree with the objection. Initiating vote. Who agrees with Mrs Golasowská objection? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 102 Members registered, for 98, against none. The motion was accepted. Now, rapporteur, please introduce us to this resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u217	In my opinion, this is a vote: to change the condition to reduce sales from current 50 to 40 per cent for entry into the COVID programme - Uncovered costs and COVID 2021.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u218	Mrs Golasowská, is that what we have to vote on? [[Yes.]] We shall therefore repeat the vote on this resolution. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 102 Members registered, for 51, against none. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur, let us move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u219	Yes. We are now to increase the upper limit of the support provided for the COVID programme - Uncovered costs to 90 per cent of fixed costs for micro-enterprises.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u220	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 101 Members registered, for 49, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u221	Yes, we continue: "Increase the support provided for the COVID 2021 programme to CZK 800 per employee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u222	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 101 Members registered, for 50, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u223	Point 6. "It asks the Government to ensure the rationalisation of measures: (a) to allow farmers' markets to take place on condition that the organiser ensures compliance with appropriate sanitary measures, thereby ensuring a level playing field between farmers' markets and supermarkets."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u224	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 100 Members registered, for 53, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u225	" (b) enable individual sport of children and youth with the participation of the coach."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u226	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 101 Members registered, for 60, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u227	For another: "It allowed travel to its own holiday home across the county borders, possibly under a negative test, if the Ministry of Health evaluates it as effective."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u228	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 101 Members registered, for 45, against 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u229	"Provision of outdoor breathing protection in the built-up area to rationalise so as to promote a higher level of compliance.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u230	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, registered by 101 Members, for 15, against 7. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u231	Thank you. Point 7. "Recommends the Government to strengthen the capacity of crisis services and professional health professionals in the area of mental burden management." [[For example, clinic psychologists, child psychiatrists]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u232	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 33, 101 Members registered, for 21, against 5. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u233	Eight. "The Ministry of Health requests permission to provide spa medical rehabilitation care to self-payers and extend the possibility of spa treatment so that it can be provided to a wider group of people who have had COVID-19 disease, with effect from 6 April 2021."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u234	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 34, 101 Members registered, for 56, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u235	Now I hope the last point follows: "It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to process and submit a complete plan to comment on the return of students and pupils to schools reflecting effective approaches such as rotational teaching and reliable testing, with a deadline until 31 March 2021."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u236	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 35, 102 Members registered, for 59, against none. The motion was accepted. Is that all?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u237	It's all, and I'd like to remind my colleague Majerová that if he has a drape under his nose, it's the same as our colleagues in the front. It's the same thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-26-ps2017-094-01-001-001.u238	So I thank the rapporteur. We have therefore exhausted all the votes. I therefore conclude the agenda for this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, but I remind you that we will meet here on Thursday, 1 April, when two meetings of the Chamber of Deputies will take place, namely the 95th meeting from 9 a.m. and the 96th meeting, which was originally convened on Wednesday, 31 March, from 16 p.m., will be opened in a new date, on Thursday, 1 April, at 18.30 p.m. Have a nice weekend and I look forward to seeing you again.
