ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-15-ps2017-112-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 112th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, welcome to all of you. Now, I've checked you out, and I'm going to ask you to register. With the replacement card number 15, Mr Hoppe votes. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of 53 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 9 July. To begin with, we must proceed to the selection of verifiers. [[Gong.]] I propose that we appoint a Member of Stanislav Berkovec and a Member of Petr Dolínek. I'm asking if there's another suggestion? I did not notice any other proposal, so we will vote on the two names I said. I've started the vote. Who is for the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, registered 89, for 86, against no one. I note that we have appointed members of Stanislav Berkovec and Petr Dolínek as verifiers of the 112th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I start reading the long list of apologies, today is July 15th, and it's our colleague Eva Matyášová's birthday. Eve, happy birthday. [[Let's hear it.]] I see he's one of the apologized ones, at least remotely. Apologies: Dana Balcarová up to 9.30 - Antonín Staněk Blaha Zuzana Stanjura - working Bartošek, Bartoš Bláha - working reasons, Pavel Blažek - working reasons, Irena Pawlas - Markéta Adamová, Andrea Brzobohatá - health reasons, Lenka Dražlová - Dražilová Zdeněk, Vymazal Faltýnek - working Eva, Majerová Fiala - Marie Pěnčíková, Pavla Golasowská - working Votava, Jana Jakob from 15 hours - working reasons, Staněk Jelínek from 9.55 to 10.30 - health Vyzula, Marian Jurečka - Ivan reasons, Pavel Juříček - Martin Baxa, Valenta Kobza - working reasons, František Kopřiva from 10 to 13 hours - Ondřej Veselý, šindelář Kováčik - Ivo Vondrák, Lenka Kozlová - health reasons, Jana Krutáčka - Helena Válková, Family reasons, Zbyněk Leo, Family Luzar, Family Julius, Family Špičák, Family Ožanová, Laborová reasons. The members of the government apologize: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Marie Benešová - working reasons, Klára Dostálová - working reasons, Karel Havlíček - working reasons, Jakub Kulhánek - working reasons, Jana Maláčová - working reasons, Miroslav Toman - working reasons. That's all from the apology. Before we proceed to the agenda for this meeting, I would like to inform you that if this meeting continues after 13 o'clock, the afternoon meeting will begin at the usual 14.30 until 16 o'clock. It is at the request of the SPD MP who takes a break of 1.5 hours. We will now proceed to the 112th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So I will once again call my colleagues from the lobby to vote as many as possible. [[Gong.]] Looks like whoever could've come. We will therefore now vote on the entire proposal for the 112th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I've started the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 2, registered 115, for 103, versus 6. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And I'm just opening up a point.
