ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u1	347. Government bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on food and tobacco products and on the amendment and addition of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 502/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Agriculture Miroslav Toman and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the agricultural committee, Mr Kováčik, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are in the Houses of Press 502/8, which was delivered on 2 December 2020, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 502/9. I would like to begin by asking the appellant if he is interested in speaking before I open the debate. So the Minister is interested, please, you have the floor. Calm down, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to reiterate the Government's amendment to Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on Food and Tobacco Products. The submitted amendment adapts the regulation of the European Union on official controls introducing new rules on official controls, including food. In addition to the adaptation of that Regulation, the aim of the proposal is to prohibit the placing on the market of double-quality foods, i.e. foods which appear identically marked with a food placed on the market in another Member State of the European Union, although the food placed on the market in the Czech Republic has different compositions or characteristics. There is also a specification and addition of the conditions for the designation Czech food and for the voluntary designation of the manufacturer. At the same time, there is the determination of the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture for accepting applications from food business operators and determining whether food is a novel food type. At the same time, the establishment of the State Agricultural Food Inspection Authority is a national data storage manager. This concerns traceability of tobacco products. In addition, following the Government's resolution of 17 October 2018, the determination of the State price printer is the only publisher of tobacco identifiers. There is also a specification of the provisions relating to electronic cigarettes and replacement refills. Part of the bill is the amendment to the Act on State Agricultural and Food Inspection, which responds to the need to adapt to the European Union regulation on official controls, i.e. the requirements of control practice and increasing interest in the purchase of food via the Internet. The draft law also includes an amendment to the Bank Act, which will allow the State Agricultural and Food Inspection to obtain from the Bank the necessary information to identify the controlled or obliged person. The amendments adopted, which are marked by letter A, have largely been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. They are in line with the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and will contribute to improving the government's bill, and I therefore agree with them. The Government's draft law was discussed by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on 5 February 2020 and recommended by its resolution to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this bill as amended by the amendments adopted. The second reading took place on 4 March 2020. The Agricultural Committee, as a guarantee committee, discussed the Government's bill on 15 April and recommended the return of the bill. The Chamber of Deputies decided on 3 June to return the proposal to second reading. In repeated second reading of the government bill, which took place on 1 December, a number of amendments that fall into different areas of the law were applied, with great attention being focused on the amendment, which concerns the mandatory share of Czech food on the market. The Agricultural Committee, as a guarantee committee, discussed this Government Bill on 9 December 2020 and adopted a resolution recommending the Chamber of Deputies to vote in third reading on the proposals set out in the draft law in the proposed order. Thank you for your attention and thank you for your approval of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate, which was the first to which Minister Blatný entered the priority right, then with the priority right of the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to present, express and summarize the reasons which lead the Ministry of Health to express a fundamental disagreement with the amendments tabled by Mr Birke and Mr Běhounek to the current House of Press 502. The proposed change from Mr Birke's pen, which will be voted as a GSD6510 proposal, is in fundamental conflict with the law of competence, as the Ministry of Agriculture is the central body of the state administration for agriculture and the food industry and the focus of SFPI and KHS control activities is fundamentally different. KHS is mainly concerned with risk assessment directly in the production of food with regard to the possible emergence and spread of alimonary diseases, including the issue of appropriate measures. The CAPI shall monitor, in particular, the situation of establishments in relation to food law requirements. At present, there are almost no establishments with a clearly defined range of boarders. And that is to be said, because restaurants cook for social services facilities, cook for schools, eat for the public and cannot be excluded from any type of establishment in advance from eating so-called risky persons such as children, consumers weakened because of health, age and so on. It is mainly a human factor in the processing of raw materials which have previously been controlled by the supervisory authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture, and the scope of public health protection bodies, i.e. regional sanitation stations, is entirely appropriate. Long-term practice has confirmed that alimony epidemics - and epidemics - are a word that has been very often bowed down recently - are associated with the provision of food services and not with the actual production of food. This was precisely the cause of the historical distribution of food surveillance between the Ministry of Health and Agriculture. The supervision of common catering is linked to other activities of sanitary stations, in particular the activities of antiepidemic trade unions, but also hygiene in general, communal hygiene, hygiene of work, and it seems to be effective and effective in the long term. Moreover, it is an arrangement - and I want to stress this - which many European countries value and consider ideal. The high dependence of the final product on factors such as the health status of the staff and their hygienic behaviour, the variability of the operation, the variability of sales at the food service premises pose a different risk to consumers than standardized industrial food production. There is no doubt that supervision of food production should be ensured by a health protection institution. The CAPI does not look at establishments as a whole and is unable to assess epidemiological risks throughout the operation from food intake to processing, storage and, in particular, food supply. The amendment brings a major reduction in the level of consumer health protection, particularly against alimonary diseases such as staphylococcal enterotoxicosis, dysentery, hepatitis type A, which is a disease that is the source of humans, not food. Effective prevention by medical authorities so far is being passed on to the amendment to the late repression of dealing with damage, in other words, the health service would only intervene when something happens. This would dismantle control and dismantle health authorities from establishments, making it more difficult to take subsequent antiepidemic measures. European legislation obliges Member States to ensure food surveillance. It does not require or expect, however, to be provided by only one institution. The unification of supervision at all costs is therefore unjustified from our point of view and the specific situation and nature of the risk must be taken into account in the decision-making process. At the same time, the proposed amendment, which lacks an analysis and an assessment of the possible effects of the proposed solution on human health, does not constitute any savings of State resources. Last but not least, it constitutes a burden on operators of remaining restaurants and similar establishments by another supervisory authority, as the public health authorities in these establishments remain competent in several other areas. It is said that the adoption of this amendment will at the same time complete the movement of the supervision of the marketing of food by the food service operator in the so-called open type of food under the Ministry of Agriculture so that this issue of food law requirements is covered as far as possible by one resort. To this end, let me briefly state that, in 2019, the CAPI had 391 supervisory staff at its disposal. These employees supervise not only catering establishments, but also retail establishments, which are more than catering, food and the like. While KHS has a department which only deals with food services establishments and has 300 employees available for 2019 only for this activity. While CAPI staff carried out 14 146 checks in that year, KHS carried out 22 358 checks. Both supervisory authorities are responsible for approximately the same number of establishments. Thus, hygiene workers are able to cover more establishments by their control activities than CAPE workers. Moreover, the amendment would move another about 25 000 establishments under CAPI supervision, which would logically lead to an increase in the cost of the state budget for supervision by the CAP to be able to do these things. [[9.30 hours]] Just a little bit further. The same is true of Mr Běhounek's proposal, which will be voted as D1 through D5. It should be recalled that this is a repeatedly tabled amendment which does not differ substantially from the amendment that was loaded in March at second reading. Compared to the original amendment, the definition of a nicotine bag without tobacco content was slightly rephrased, and the proposed § 12k para. 3 from which the obligation on the unit packaging of nicotine sachets to provide mandatory information in the form of a leaflet has been removed and is supplemented by a provision concerning a transitional period for the sale of products which were placed on the market before the entry into force of this law and will not comply with the newly introduced requirements. Therefore, the proposed amendment was not in any way consulted with the Ministry of Health. If this type of product contained tobacco, even if only a very small quantity, it would then, according to the principle of its use, be tobacco intended for oral use, whose placing on the market is pursuant to Section 12 (2) of the basic Regulation. 3 The Food and Tobacco Products Act is prohibited. This is due to Article 17 of European Directive 2014/40/EU concerning the production, presentation and sale of tobacco products. According to the original provisions of this Directive, the prohibition on the sale of tobacco for oral use should be maintained in order to prevent the introduction into the Union of an addictive product with adverse health effects. In addition to the same principle of use, oral tobacco and new nicotine products also have a common effect on the fact that they contain a highly addictive substance, i.e. nicotine, and on the basis of the above, it can be concluded that nicotine sachets are circumventing the prohibition laid down by the directive and thus also the transposition regulation in Act 110/1997 Coll... For this reason, it should be examined whether it is no longer possible to apply, by analogy, to this type of product in the light of the possible effects on public health, a prohibition on the placing on the market of such products under Article 12 (1) of the basic Regulation. 3 Act 110/1997 Coll. However, the amendment does not deal with the possibility of banning the marketing of this product, as is the case with the so-called snus, nor does it contain any assessment of the impact of the proposed variant, including the impact on consumers and government. In general, the justification for the proposed measures is therefore insufficient. I would also like to point out that the introduction of a new concept and specific regulation of this type in the regulation will also require the need to amend other legislation, such as Act 65/2017 Coll., on the protection of health against harmful effects of addictive substances. The greatest deficiency of this amendment is that it does not include the designation of control bodies to carry out checks on compliance with the proposed obligations, nor the wording of infringements in relation to sanctions for non-compliance with these obligations. Therefore, the proposed obligations will not be enforceable in the result and will only have a declaratory character and no supervisory authority will be expressly empowered to control and impose sanctions for their infringement. The absence of technical notification under the text of Directive 2015/1535/EU, which should be implemented in view of the nature of the proposed measure, is also a separate problem. If this does not happen, this adjustment will not be enforceable. Even with this amendment, I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to support it. In the case of both amendments, I would consider it more appropriate that we return to the debate on a professional basis with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, rather than the hasty adoption of these proposals with the adverse effects, particularly on human health, which I have been talking about and which I have outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u5	Thank you. Now the rapporteur is in the debate, then the Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, a few small points before the standard process of third reading takes place. First of all, I'll leave it to the Minister, because I, too, have been a witness for basically many years, and sometimes an active participant in those discussions of competence, so I have to note in the account of the dispute that this is a deep misunderstanding - that has also sounded here several times since this desk. The competence of hygienic-epidemiology is unaffected, and especially at present the capacity of hygiene workers is, I would say, deeply overloaded. And most importantly, the process concerns before food or raw material becomes food. And the Minister's argument about alimony infections, so yes, of course, can be taken so that when distributing and storing ready meals and so on can arise and there are also many risks of this type, but far more risks of this type arise by violating food law and, therefore, until food becomes food, the situation is not yet perfectly covered. And if anyone wants to convince me they are, they're not. But that's just the initial reaction of me as a longtime participant in this dispute. This is nothing new and another discussion, further delaying the solution would also bring nothing else and new. I, for one, strongly intercede to end the long-term discussion and carry out the transfer. I support the proposal. But now the second part of my speech in the debate is that I will ask you to listen carefully, given that the lawyers have come up with some legislative-technical amendments that need to be supplemented, so I will ask you to follow closely. When you take the 502/9, the guarantee committee's resolution, the first page contains proposals for legislative-technical modifications, and I would like to add three further proposals for legislative-technical modifications, which I will now read on the first page. The first proposal is - on Amendment I4, in parentheses of the House document, i.e., point X4 correctly reads: "In part of the first article I in the present paragraph 70 § 17f letters. (a) after the words of § 17 para. The words of Section 17 (5) shall be inserted after the words "Article 17 (5) '. 6.'; [[SD 6922]] The second proposal for legislative-technical regulation is on Amendment I5, point X5 correctly reads: In Part I of the first Article in the present paragraph 70 § 17f letters. [[SD 6922]] (b) after the words of § 17 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) the words of Paragraph 17 (1) shall be inserted. 7 as regards retail outlets with a sales area of between 400 m2 and 1,000 m2. And the third legislative-technical regulation is - to Amendment I6, point X6 correctly reads: In Part I of the first Article in paragraph 70 in Section 17f. (c) after the words of § 17 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), (g), (h), (i) or (j) the words of Section 17 (1) shall be inserted. 7 as regards retail outlets with a sales area exceeding 1000 m2. [[SD 6922]] This is the wording of the additional legislative-technical amendments introduced, which we will then vote on. The other three, which are still on the other, are not affected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u7	Thank you, too, rapporteur. The Minister of Agriculture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u8	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I must respond to the performance that my esteemed colleague, Minister Blatný, has had here. I have to say, if I simplify it, I'm going to say that it was completely unnecessary to scare and not speak the truth. Since 2020, we have the European Union's food law. That means we're talking about what the SZPI has been saying about food law since 2002. The Act on the Protection of the Health of the Population is not affected in any way. Since 2015, the CAPI controls 30,000 establishments. This means that 15,000 establishments would be added to this, others such as school dining rooms, other things, closed meals, remain within the competence of the Ministry of Health. That's one. That means the epidemiological examination remains - and the health - all on hygiene. It doesn't transfer competence, it just unifies. [[9.40 hours]] Please note that we don't give any claim to people or to the crown of expenses, we can do it all from our optimization. This needs to be stressed. We don't want a single person for that, not a penny of the cost of the state budget. So that's it. We only follow food law. Second period. Third: the Health Protection Act is not affected. Period. So please, please, let's not say those things. I could read another half an hour here, and it's just not true that the CAPI couldn't control the medical fitness of workers in food businesses. In the event of non-compliance with the requirements for personal hygiene laid down in Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009: The CAPI is entitled to order the removal of the worker from all activities of the food business. In this context, I must also point out that the control of the requirements of food law, which is the subject of the amendment, is not conditional and is not linked in any way to medical education. The CAPI as a centrally managed office carries out checks on food law requirements across the whole range across the Czech Republic in a uniform, predictable and transparent manner. They publish their results in one place, that's the food on the pillow. At the same time, when this unites, there will be equal access to open-food entrepreneurs, and the consumer will also have to ensure that this is uniform. That means we don't really take one worker, we don't take one crown, we only follow food law, we want to simplify it for the benefit of entrepreneurs and consumers. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u9	Thank you. Mrs Jarošová is also enrolled in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u10	Good morning, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am very pleased that today we are discussing both the second-quality food law and the related proposal from the SPD pen to increase food self-sufficiency, in the final, third reading. Since I have spoken on this subject several times, I will briefly mention our proposal here, namely the introduction of a legal obligation to sell basic foods in our market, in which we have been self-sufficient in the past, thereby levelling the food market. Let me just say that we set their share in our proposal at 55 percent in 2022, with percentages increasing by 3 percent every year until 2028 when we should achieve at least 73% of our food market share. The positive thing is that already the strings declare that they are stocked with Czech products from 59 percent, so at least they claim it in their slogans, so they should start in 2022 to 55 percent should not be a problem. These are roughly 120 basic items from more than 15 000 offered. That's less than a percentage, that's about 0,8 percent of the items, that's the absolute minimum that can't in any way threaten a varied range of goods as the chain is sugerated to us. And yet this proposal in the media is faced with misinformation on how to reduce the product range, quality, or even increase the price of goods. This has not even come into force in the case of a law that has not yet come into force, and it is already facing such fears and misinformation. No, it's the opposite. This is a pre-established food, as I said, there are about 120 of them, and these are foods that we are able to grow in our country, in the case of animals, so we will not lose exotic fruit, on the contrary, the quality of the food will increase and the price will be reduced because the prices of agricultural suppliers, our suppliers in the Czech Republic, are at a low level in the long term. And especially by supporting this proposal, colleagues and colleagues, you will also support quality, fresh, and especially safe food, which is an increased interest of our customers. Thank you for your attention, thank you for supporting this proposal, but also the entire law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u11	Thank you, too. Next for the debate is Mr Holomčík. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for the delay. At this point, I would like to present two of my amendments and ask or ask for their support. I propose a change of approach to how we define the Czech food brand. First of all, I'm glad the brand exists. I am glad that Czech legislation allows voluntary labelling of what Czech food is, but I am afraid that the model, as it is now, is difficult to understand for consumers, and actually the change, when the third one adds to the two different definitions, will not help much. I get it. I understand that Czech legislation responds somehow to European legislation, I understand that there are a number of views, whether it is a view of food as food, a view of food as goods. I understand all this, but I think in this case, when it comes to voluntary marking, we can afford to be a little more specific. The essence of my proposal says that there won't be three different definitions of what Czech food is, but it will be simplified that Czech food will be defined by the fact that it is a food that was produced in our country, and everything that is in it and could have been produced in the territory of our Republic has been produced there. I was in a joke when we were talking about it on a TV show a few years ago, on a question, it was with Mr. Soukup when he asked me what I thought about this, so I told the joke that the only sign I believe is a no-go. As I'm saying, I don't want to downplay it, I don't want to make sense of it, but I really think it's quite difficult for consumers. And I say this as a person who worked before the House for about ten years or a little longer in marketing, and I know that if you want to communicate with the end consumer, if you want to address someone, you should do everything you can to make it as easy for him to understand. And that's where one of my designs is headed. The second proposal concerns the double quality of food. I confess that I do not fully agree with the way in which the Department of Agriculture has approached this issue. On the other hand, I would like to appreciate the work done by the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, which has already published on its website how it will approach checks and say enforcement of this provision if it appears in the law, which does not change the fact that I do not consider it happy. My second amendment is heading in such a way as to make it clear that the issue of double food quality will not affect those who have no power to influence it, and these are particularly small stores. I think that the problem of accessibility and some rural services is quite increasing here, the shops - and I am very focused on small shops in small villages and in rural areas, although I know that this applies to others, but I am heading in this direction - the stores have closed quite a lot in recent years. This is becoming increasingly difficult, and I think that it is certainly in the law to declare them correctly and to provide some legal certainty that the new regulation will not affect them, because they simply do not have the ability to influence it. The steps taken by the State's agricultural and food inspection in this matter give me confidence that this will not happen, however, the management of the resort may change, the Ministry's policy may change, the management of the inspection may change, and it is still simply on that plane as if some declaration outside the legislative definition. And where I'm going is to make it clear in the law that the issue of double food quality does not affect small shops in the countryside. I therefore ask you to support these proposals. I am still going to sign up for the debate because there is one maintenance proposal, but I will do so in a separate contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u13	I thank you, Mr Member, and I ask that Mr Bendl, who is entered into the general debate on this point, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, colleagues, it has been a number of times since we have returned to this material, which is unimportant and contains a number of things in the area of food policy, or, if you want food production, food professionals are calling for it. We need to make a number of changes, but we may not need some of the amendments that govern this whole material. I will mention only a few amendments, and I will take the liberty of commenting on them. On the proposal of colleagues from the SPD, who this time in their third reading replaced colleagues from the ANO movement. They propose quotas on counters of Czech shops, quotas for Czech food, which in practice will mean restrictions on imports and, of course, rising food prices, very artificially and poorly set. Moreover, the amendment, as it is written, is almost uncontrollable and complexly feasible. I kind of suspect my colleagues only from the publication or presentation of the political title of Czech food, because that is what pleases the Czech Republic, but this amendment, which is completely contrary to European law, and I think it is also contrary in principle to the agreement that we, as the Czech Republic, have done with the European Union, prevents trade, restricts trade and reduces people's chances of choosing food according to their taste. I think that the moment the Czech Republic or the Ministry of Agriculture submits this part of the bill to the European Commission for notification, if this amendment passes, the European Union or the European Commission cannot approve it. So it's just a declaration, nothing that I think can be realized in practice, and goes completely against the interests of people who buy food in the Czech Republic. If we want to help Czech food, then we must actively support production, and within the short chain of production in as many producers as possible, to support family farms, to support small food producers, it will certainly be clear what kind of food it is. And we wouldn't have to deal with such things, forgive me, nonsense and rather populist cries than really really supporting the existence and production of Czech food. The proposal that the Minister of Health questioned here. Like most of my colleagues, I support Mr Birke's proposal, as it brings unification of the supervision of food law requirements in open-type joint catering facilities. As the Minister of Agriculture said here, and I very much agree with him in this respect, since 2015, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority has been monitoring approximately 30,000 open-type joint catering establishments. The state agricultural and food inspection has experience in functioning, there are no problems with this and there is no reason to unify this control under one single institution. This in terms of the business environment, from the point of view of food producers, is certainly a relief, however the state will remain in the hands of the control of food production and the control of the shared eating of the open type. That's why I'm very sorry for the simplification that I think my existence has already proven to be functional. For the business sector, ease means a little less stamps, regardless of the fact that they will continue to have to comply with strict hygiene rules on food production. Then I will mention the double quality, which we also talked about a lot. European legislation makes food vendors also a manufacturer, which, especially as my previous speaker said, can complicate the situation for small food vendors, because they are unable to influence what product they get and what its detailed composition looks like, which they offer in their shops, especially in small towns and cities. They just don't have that power and they never will. We were assured at the meeting of the agricultural committee that the ongoing controls would take this into account, however much the principle that we also oblige the seller in the store to be responsible for the quality of the packaged product is simply completely illogical and I hope that the State Agricultural and Food Inspection will take this into account when carrying out the control, because the fines proposed there are essentially winding up. They're in a situation where if it were to be used like this, we could basically close one small deal at a time. I believe that no one here wants this, and hopefully this European legislation will change in the future, so that it is clear who is the manufacturer and the food producer, who sells them and who is really responsible. Third block. I will stand by the amendments to the food banks. The agricultural committee supported the extension of the possibility to which food can be distributed from food banks. According to the proposal or recommendation of the Agricultural Committee, it will no longer be just clients of social services, but basically the amendment adopted by the Agricultural Committee opens up the possibility that everyone can get the food. Every single one of them, I'm just stressing that. We say no to social services clients anymore, but basically anyone who has the authority to distribute food from a food bank can get it. And I propose an amendment that kind of regulates the possibility of who can present and claim the fact that he treats food from the food bank and what his name is. I think that to present the fact that it sends food to a food bank, has a company or a trader who does so, or an organization or a publicly beneficial company charity and humanitarian, which stores and prepares those foods for further distribution. No one else should be handing out food from food banks on their behalf. I would consider it a certain degree of hyenaism, and it needs to be prevented. Therefore, I propose clarification in this law, who can use food distribution from food banks for their presentation. And in the legislative part - the amendment. I report to them, I submit a legislative-technical one that regulates compatibility with the amendments that have received support from the agricultural committee, so that they can be put to the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Just a heads-up, I think you've noticed, during the performance of my colleague, I checked you all out because there was a minor technical problem. So you can log in again, make sure everything works. And a word from Mr Antonín Staněk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u16	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of Mr Birke, please allow me to comment on his amendment under number 6510, which has been mentioned several times before, and to introduce you to the arguments in support of this very amendment. The current situation where State Agricultural and Food Inspection and Hygiene Stations have identical competence to control food law in joint catering establishments is something that this amendment systematically addresses. The amendment unites the supervision of the requirements of open-dial food law for one surveillance authority, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority - restaurants, bars, cafés, fast food. The state agricultural and food inspection already controls 30,000 establishments and the proposed amendment is only intended to supplement these 30 000 establishments with the remaining around 15 000, which would therefore be subject to this uniform control. The Regional Hygiene Station remains 15 000 closed catering facilities, such as hospitals, schools, retirement homes, and so on, where it is necessary to ensure a balanced diet for target groups and to devote itself really intensively to the investigations made by the Regional Hygiene Station. I would like to point out here that the authorisation for county health stations to investigate food epidemics is not affected. And anyone who says otherwise isn't telling the truth. The Regional Hygiene Stations can and will be able to enter and deal with this at any time and wherever it is needed. What's important? This amendment brings equal access to operators who are directly competing. Simply put, the rosé bar will have the same supervisory authority as the restaurant on the opposite side of the street. There will simply be some kind of unification and equal access for all operators in the given segment of services. Double checking of the same obligations with the same operator will be eliminated. This is essentially to oppose the claims made by regional health stations and others who are talking about increasing the administrative burden for operators. Again, it's inaccurate if I don't want to use the word false. Thus, two supervisory organisations will not do the same in the same establishment. There will be no transfer of any service positions from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Regional Hygiene Stations will thus be able to use their personnel capacity in the long term for specialized activities in which other public authorities cannot represent them, such as today's current epidemiological inquiry or tracing. It should be recalled that since 2015, the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority has successfully controlled around 30,000 open-type joint catering establishments. This is the regional sanitation stations have not controlled these establishments for more than six years. By moving under the Department of Agriculture, there will be absolutely no complications. This was not the case in 2015. There is therefore no reason why such a situation should arise after the adoption of this amendment. The national agricultural and food inspection standard controls the entire spectrum of food law requirements - hygiene requirements such as regular cleaning, pests, cleaning and remediation, prevention of spread of alimonary diseases including personal hygiene, health fitness of workers, microbiological control, presence of pathogenic microorganisms such as salmonella, listeria, nororinians and others, food safety such as burnt frit oil, contaminated ice for the preparation of beverages, microbiologically defective ice creams. They control food forgeries, such as the substitution of cheaper poultry meat for beef, the issue of plant substitutes for cheese, cream. It is therefore not true that a State agricultural and food inspection cannot control the health fitness and exclude from the premises of persons who at first sight do not comply with the principles of personal hygiene under the relevant regulations. It is not true that this amendment will put health at risk. It is not true that regional sanitation stations have better knowledge and more experience. It is not true that health education is necessary to control the marketing of food. On the contrary, the amendment concerns adjustments to the competence to control the requirements of food law, where it is very appropriate to have a higher education in the food, chemical and technological direction, which is met by inspectors of the State Agricultural and Food Inspections. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, therefore the amendment under number 6510 brings a comparison of conditions for operators and also brings great benefit to consumers themselves. This is mainly due to the quality control of food, which is used in the process of processing and switching from individual food to final food. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, the Minister for Health in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will briefly take the liberty of reacting. Please, from my point of view, I consider this discussion to be professional, in no way question the work of the SZPI. I simply believe that the role of sanitary service as set up is currently and also in the future irreplaceable and simply untransferable. I'm just going to point out once again what I said, that I'm rock solidly convinced that prevention is the basis and that the opportunity to act when the epidemic spread of some enterotoxicosis or jaundice occurs, that it's too late. I know that hygiene will continue to have that possibility. But I think that preemptive setting as it is, it's just essential that you can't give in to it. And the basic factor from my point of view isn't the food, it's the human. If I'm going to say it euphemistically, it's not carrots, but the point is that someone doesn't behave hygienically adequately, they're going to put the disease in there, and then it's going to develop. I judge it as a doctor, after all, I'm the Minister of Health, so I guess it doesn't surprise anyone. Again, it's not an attack on colleagues whose work I appreciate. I'm just gonna ask you to do the same thing for hygiene. And I think the way it's set up now, that gives health safety to all residents. I don't comment on the other parts of the law, I don't have a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u19	Thank you and Mr Dolínek, who is enrolled in the debate, has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u20	Thank you. Mr President, I would not normally comment on this law, but because of the strange system that we are still holding - 50% of the Members' participation - Mr Birke is not in session today, so that is why, on the one hand, Staněk, a member of the committee, and on the other hand, I am speaking because Honza Birke is not here today. Otherwise, I think he would have very eruditely explained why he was doing this, as he suggested. And my prepared arguments - I thank Mr Bendl for saying some of them, some said a colleague Staněk. I would point out one crucial thing here, I would look at it more widely. I'm sorry that we're falling into such old cliché resortism again: I'm always in the resort, I don't mean the minister, I mean his subordinates, he should, I want to keep it there, because I was used to it, I had it so divided, so we're gonna keep doing it. It is a bit of a Czech smallness, which we often fall into, that it worked for twenty, forty years, and that is why we want to continue doing so. In this proposal, it is important that hygiene does not lose its employees. The law is designed so that no employee leaves, no table space is transferred, but people remain. I'm on the spot of hygiene, so I welcome it at this time. If we can manage everything that the Minister presented here yesterday in any plan to do in the coming months, then I am happy to have a professional partner who knows some things for me - not for me, but for me - to do - and I would work with him. I would rather invest the energy that hygiene now actually invests in acting against this proposal in time to reconcile the system. And let us also look at this from the untypical perspective of an entrepreneur for a social democracy. People in hospitality, or in these operations that we are talking about, have the same problems at this time as other entrepreneurs, and we have actually unexpectedly prepared a predictable environment for them. When the system starts at least partially normal, they'll know they have a readable environment, they have a readable partner, and they'll be able to communicate with that on the subject of controls, hygiene, traffic. And actually, what more can we do for businessmen at this point, apart from some compensation, than not having double checks, they'll have one partner. I think it's very important, too. And then why I think that hygiene should focus on other things and not necessarily just this lobbying for a function that, as my colleague Staněk explained, can take over in peace, because it already does. My five-year-old story from Prague: We haven't been able to organize a fixed tram line in the city centre of Prague, Prague 2, many of you know it, it's on Belgrade Street, some of you live there because hygiene said that the tram is too noisy and that the tram that has been driving there for 60 years and had to be repaired cannot be housed after the repair because it is too noisy. At that time, Minister Ludvík, who made a meeting, had to personally intervene, and hygiene made it clear that electric rail transport in the city centre was really making noise, and the fact that the tram was there, actually it was not a new authorisation, it was some sort of housewarming, and finally the hygiene had retreated after half a year and we could get the fixed tram line working. I think that hygiene itself has a lot of problems that need to be resolved, and when there's an offer to distribute competences so that it's functional and predictable, I'm sorry, and I'm saying it's not for the Minister, it's for the people below that they're fighting for something that's simply necessary at the moment. So I will also ask you, in line with what the opposition representatives have said, to vote for this change today. It is clear that it is competent, and it is already verified for the last five years of operation, and I think that the responses from the other side of the operators have always been positive or mostly positive. Of course, who has big troubles will always complain, but who works under law and rules, they were finally satisfied with it. So I ask you to support the amendment. I will not comment on other parts of the law. I think this discussion has been held here for almost two years, so that's where it was discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u21	Thank you. And now I ask Mr Holomčík's word, Mr Válek will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have applied once again to this debate because I would like to devote myself specifically to explaining why Members of the Pirate Party will not support the proposal for a mandatory share of Czech food in supermarkets or in establishments over 400 m2. The reasons are summarised in three categories. The first categories are reservations about how the proposal is written. I'm very sorry if we're talking about such a banged-up topic that's being denied in the media, on social networks, why didn't the petitioner just make a deal with the Department of Agriculture and get it written there. Perhaps we would avoid the many mistakes and nonsense that are in the proposal. For me, the most fundamental reservation, which, if there was nothing else, would be enough to be against this proposal, is a provision which, and I will read it, says how the quota is to be achieved. I'll read it. "The food business operator operating the retail business is obliged to ensure that the proportion of selected basic foods from the short supply chain" - I skip part of the text - "sold to final consumers in each retail establishment operated by him..." and the text continues. This means that the proposal says how much percent, respectively, determines the structure of the product range that the trader should sell to the end client. I don't know which one of you has the experience of retailing, of selling something to end consumers, but ordering by law that what I sell - not what I offer, that's what logic should still be done, that's what we could technically do through ERP systems, it could even be automated to make sure the system itself says: watch out, here it threatens - but we're talking about dictating to a businessman how much he has to sell. That's total absurdity. It's just no one can be serious. Don't be mad at me, but this is such a crucial fail of the proposal that if there was nothing else, that's the reason to turn him down. And I'm really sorry that the petitioners didn't consult, or that they couldn't write it to the Ministry, because in this kind of systemic intervention, I think that the view could at least solve this thing. The other problem I see in this text is that when we talked about this proposal in the first, second reading that took place some time ago, it actually sounded that the tendency is against European law, it is against the meaning of the free market in the territory of the European Union. And it was said: well, then we will not push it towards the Czech food, but we will talk about shortening the supply chain, which is definitely the right consideration. For example, the European Union allows for the so-called locality bonification in public procurement law, that is to say, an emphasis on the fact that things consumed are produced nearby. The submitters decided to solve this problem by defining that instead of Czech food, they were talking about food from the short supply chain. But when we read the whole definition, it is that in § 2 para. 1 the following point (q) is inserted: "Feed from the short supply chain, food produced from raw materials originating in the Czech Republic, in the case of raw materials of plant origin, this means growing, processing and packaging, for raw materials of animal origin, the birth of animals, breeding, fattening, slaughter and processing in the Czech Republic'. I've even discovered a grammatical error there now, but that's different. However, the petitioners agreed to do so by saying: Czech food is a food from a short supply chain. There is no specific parameter that really determines the shortness of the chain, whether a geographical proximity or, for example, a direct purchase from a producer. The moment I have a dry bread crust in front of me and I call it a five-sirloin, it doesn't mean it's a five-dumpling sirloin, it's still a dry bread crust, only I'm going to act very strangely. [[10.20 hours]] And that's exactly what the petitioners did. They said: Any Czech food, because the definition corresponds to it, is a food from a short supply chain. If this is what we're trying to tell anyone that it's not a violation of free market principles, I can't imagine how intellectually limited such a person would have to be to accept it. Another thing, it also concerns the definition. There are basically two definitions. One that I have read, which shows that foods that should be classified under the compulsory share should be exclusively Czech, including raw materials. However, if we look further into the provisions of Section 9b, this is a paragraph. 1, letter (b), so it says that it is possible to label a short supply chain food with the food, the sum of which is at least 75 per cent of the total weight of ingredients originating in the Czech Republic of all ingredients determined at the time of their use in the manufacture of foodstuffs other than those referred to in point (b). (a) and production took place in the Czech Republic. Added water doesn't count. That's because, of course, businessmen are going to try to get along with this proposal in some way, so we're going to lose our percentages. We've done an indicative calculation. If we are talking about the fact that in 2027 73 percent of the Czech origin's listed foods should be in the range of retail chains or sales area stores greater than 400 m2, then actually, if we use this definition, we're down to 73 percent to about 55 percent. The question is whether it is the intention of the petitioner, but basically that we allow this definition reduces our overall percentage of Czech food. I don't know, it's probably a question for the petitioner, whether that's what he really intended, or is it the result of the not-quite exemplary legislative work that could be solved if they consulted the Ministry. Next thing. In the proposal in Annex 1, the list of short supply chain foods covered by the obligation is contained. And there are a lot of things that are probably non-conflict - legumes, vegetables, meat products, eggs, etc. But there are also things that are either proven not to be produced in the Czech Republic or are totally minority. It's kitchen salt, it's sesame seed, it's fish liver, watermelons. Of course, watermelons can be grown. I've been growing them for years. I remember a time when there was such a harvest that at the end of the season, even chickens didn't want to eat it anymore. Of course I can. But the question is whether it is appropriate to include these foods, which are in our commercial mass scale, in the list of attachments, because they dismantle us terribly. And once again, the question is whether it's intended. Because we're telling the businessman that if he wants to keep it up, he has to increase the percentage for other foods. And I'm afraid, in a lot of extreme cases, it could also lead to the businessman not selling kitchen salt, because in order to fit into legal limits, he's just gonna have to cut down on some of the product range so it doesn't mess up his entire percentage. I completely misunderstood - and again it is a question for the petitioner - why there is work with the construction of product weight. When you look, basically the percentage is calculated from the weight of the products, while the lemonade, although it is not counted there, but simply some products, which have a smaller value, weigh naturally more than dry salami with some noble mold, which costs quite a lot in kilogram price because it is difficult to produce. So once again, if it doesn't have any effect. If we want to support farmers and food farmers, if it would be worth focusing on the nominal value of goods, etc. And then, of course, the last question about the petitioner is when they impose an obligation on the competition authority to supervise compliance with this law, if they even asked if the office can handle it, if it has enough capacity. He's not gonna be the very small amount of work we're adding to this office right now. If that's what they're counting on in the institution's budget, if they're ready for it. In the proposal, it is expected that it should start this year by 2021, so I wonder if anyone even bothered to ask the UOHS if he could even supervise compliance with this law. Because putting another regulation in the law that we won't be able to enforce is the swaying of the rule of law, which is already too much in the water. But it's a question for the petitioner, and I'll be glad if she's answered. So these are reservations about the proposal itself. I'm just going to repeat: if there was nothing else in this proposal but ordering a trader to sell what he has to sell, that alone would be enough. However, there is a second plane, and this is an economic view, this macro-view of our economy, of our economy as a whole. The Czech Republic is a strong pro-export economy. This means that a significant part of our gross domestic product, but also the collection of taxes and, of course, employment, is linked to how many goods and services and other things our companies can export. Eighty percent of Czech exports go to the countries of the European Union and it is quite understandable because there is some proximity to legislative, it is a stable environment, the European Union countries form a relatively lucrative market even in terms of purchasing capacity. And this proposal goes directly against the principles of the free market. If we do this - and I will talk about it in a minute - that we will not - but if we really want to do this, we are opening the door to the fact that sooner or later the free market of the European Union, on which our economy is existentially dependent, will fall apart. I repeat - 80% of Czech exports go to the countries of the European Union. In recent years, the balance of foreign trade has been between EUR 12 billion and EUR 17 billion per year in favour of exports. And I'd like to ask the petitioners if they have any alternative economic concepts processed. What happens if you manage to blow up the free market? Minister Havlíček is not here to say anything about it. But I really wonder if you've thought about this level - what happens if you can break up the free market where our companies are going to export. The Prime Minister often and gladly repeats the nonsense that the pirát want to break the Czech economy. Ladies and gentlemen, if anything can damage the Czech economy, the Czech economy, it is precisely these tendencies that pose a risk of breaking up the free market. I really wonder if the petitioners have any idea what will happen if they succeed. What will happen if the companies still have to pay customs duties when they are exported to Germany, Austria and other countries of the European Union? If we break the free market, what happens? It's just... [[A note from the diaper.]] Well, that's not bullshit, it's not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u23	I'm gonna ask you all not to scream. If you are interested, sign up for the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u24	What are we going to do about this economy if we can break up the free market? Here we say breaking up the free market and threatening Czech exports is bullshit - I don't think so. [[10.30 hours]] And then there's the third look, and that's, uh, that design is kind of a clown show. Let's face it. He does not really count much on the fact that he will ever start to pay, which slightly denies the previous two areas that I have talked about, but we all know that if this affects European law, if it affects the fundamental principles on which the European Union, which we have voluntarily decided to enter, it will have to be subject to notification by the European Commission. And on the example of some other countries that have tried something similar, we simply know that it will not pass. And let's face it, this proposal is nothing but an election act. And I'm terribly sorry, because our agriculture, and I don't want to question the fact that our farmers are not in a difficult position, I don't want to question the fact that we have a lot of problems, but to send a signal like this to Czech farmers that we are actually willing to work here and debate about a total clown shop, I don't think that's gonna help them. I don't even think it's polite and honest with them. I think that we should focus, for example, on the preparation of the common agricultural policy, which can address certain problems that are mentioned, such as the so-called external convergence, the diversity of payments between Member States. Let's talk about whether or not this is an outdated relic of some past time. I'm open to the debate here. If we want to address the position and role of supermarkets, let's talk about the law on significant market power. That is exactly the legislative instrument we have to do it. I've noticed that the proposal is somewhere in an interdepartmental reminder. This is the tool we have to prevent some bad practice of strings. But not the Food Act! Then, of course, the question is why the law focuses only on chains and does not focus on what I think it should do, and this, within the production-consumer chain, is also to address the position and protection of small ones from large ones, which is not necessarily just chains. But that's a debate for another time. I simply refuse to accept and accept that we are talking nonsense to farmers here about trying to help them with a proposal that is poorly written that threatens the economy of the Czech Republic and which is actually not meant to be serious. And those are the reasons why the pirát will not support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u25	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the debate with Mr Válek's speech, and my colleague Bendl will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u26	Thank you, Mr President. So much has been done here, I could only thank you for your attention and leave. But I'm going to try to say something for myself and for TOP 09. We will support the amendment to move competences to agricultural inspection and explain why. I am probably the only one, at least I think I am the only one who is at the same time in the Committee on Agriculture and Health, and I thank the Minister for this very much. I completely understand the defense of regional hygiene. Regional hygiene is underfunded, regional hygiene is inadequately equipped, it needs to be strengthened to the maximum, and I thank the Ministry for trying to do so. It is also necessary to strengthen them technically, but here we are talking about certain practical things that are cyclically occurring here, when I had the opportunity to see the results of the inspection in Brno, to see the results of those establishments, and I must say that the philosophy of access to controls must change. They must change because of consumers, because of customers in restaurants, so that they really can be sure that they are getting a quality product, well prepared, in clean, quality and hygienically safe spaces, and I believe that this change will lead to that. If that change, if Mr Birke's proposal were accompanied by a proposal to move workers from county health stations, I would be the first to fundamentally oppose it. But it's not, and I'm very happy for that, and I appreciate it. A similar proposal appeared cyclically here, and I think it's a certain change in the understanding of the operation of the controls. It's been said a few times around here. It's a certain paradigm that's historically long here, and a paradigm change always accompanied by passion, always accompanied by irreconcilable opinions. I am glad that the discussion on this point is not such that a number of rational, reasonable arguments have been made here, and I repeat once again that I thank the Minister of Health for a clear summary and that position which is not something I would not agree with at all, but I think that in this case for customers, for the sake of citizens, for consumers, better support for the transfer, and that is why TOP 09 supports it. Another thing is the percentage of Czech food - and he spoke about it by colleague Holomčík, through Mr President - on the market. We will not support this amendment here. There are a number of reasons that fell here, although I think that the urge and effort for this proposal and the idea as such is very good, it is necessary to support local producers, local producers and, of course, Moravia Moravia Moravia, Silesian Silesia, Chodska walking, Prague etc. and in the Czech Republic, and the less food is transported, the more local food consumption, the more those local producers are supported, the better it is for them and for the quality of the food. These are all things that we can agree with. But I can't agree that the customer doesn't have a choice. I trust our customer and clients and believe that the customer chooses quality food, I believe that he chooses Czech food, and if I go, I see that there are enough of them on the market, that there are stores that focus only on producing and selling Czech food. They're not just stone shops, they're online stores. I mean, the fact that I couldn't get to Mr. Hakalík's Hakalík is a total chimera, and I'd be crazy if I lived in South Moravia to go somewhere other than Hakalík. Another thing is if the sausage is able to make as many as I consume. It's nonsense for me to go for dairy products other than Beskydy or Vysočina just because I have a few friends there who make amazing dairy products, and I just drive for them. We have several cheese shops around Brno, so I could go on and on and on and on. On the other hand, and this brings me to support the amendment, through Mr President, colleague Holomčík. There's chocolate Ajala. That's a chocolate you may know or don't know, but she won several world championships as the best chocolate. Wonderfully, it's a Brno product, so it's Czech, so I'm sorry, Brno chocolate, when the producers of the chocolate grow the beans in Ecuador, I suspect, very carefully, pays the growers large amounts to grow the beans of quality. That means they support the developing country, which I very much like, the backpack tradition continues here. They use sugar cane to sweeten, of course, but the chocolate is still Czech chocolate, and they report that Čech can make top chocolate all over the world. And I think that's what we want. We want to promote the Czech Republic, we want to promote the Czech brand, we want to promote CZECH MADE that it is top quality. We will therefore support this amendment, unlike the previous one. The last thing I would like to mention is my amendment, and that is what I would like to draw it far more intensively into the discussion on food. It is my amendment under point E - the designation of unpacked foods. Thank you for the recommendation of the Agricultural Committee and the positive opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture. My point is that we should do our utmost to support, on the one hand, those who have any problems with any part of the food - celiacy, lactose intolerance patients, etc., have enough quality food at a comparable price to others. [[10.40 hours]] This is what I think is what we should do, and here we should support the Czech producers who offer these products. We should encourage these diet foods to go to children's schools and wherever they are needed by workers, but above all to schools. We repeatedly try to do so with the Minister of Agriculture and thank him very much for his support. And I hereby call again to the microphone of Minister Plaga, who promised me that he would finally call a working group at the Ministry of Education in September, so I hope that he will step up to his performance and do so in January. January isn't over yet. I'd beg him very much. And this is the real support of quality food, which can be Czech and which can be supported by Czech producers of these foods and, on the one hand, support the health of Czech citizens. It has to do with this - and I am very happy that this effort is supported by the Chief Hygiene, and I thank the Minister of Health very much, although he may not know it, but the Ministry of Health has taken the lead on this, and this has been greatly supported in seminars by the way of regional hygienists. And I think that now it is only the Ministry of Education, and again I ask Minister Plaga absent to consider whether we could call it in January. I hope, perhaps, in the government, you could also ask him, Minister of Agriculture. And I think that if we manage to inform our clients about the composition of Czech food, if we manage to inform our clients about the quality of Czech food in this way, it is the best we can do for Czech food. Why do I think that? And now I see how, through Mr President, the chairman of the agricultural committee will laugh at me, but that's okay -- but yeah, I deserve it, but I'm gonna say it. Because he knows I have to mention wine with every message I make, so I'm gonna mention it here. And we have learned during a relatively short period of time that Moravian wines and Czech wines are top quality, especially white wines. Why would I buy another one? We taught him and explained what he should be looking for on the labels, and we forced him to convince the winemakers that it is in their interest, especially in their interest, to state the truth on the labels so that they do not lie there, and of course we control it. It's never gonna be perfect. The effort is endless. And the same efforts and the same efforts should be made for every Czech food, because the Czech consumer, the Czech farmer and the Czech products and foods deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u27	I thank Mr Válek. And now, with priority rights, Mr Marian Jurečka, my colleague Bendl will wait. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u28	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. Allow me a few notes for myself and also for the KDU-ČSL club. I must say that I am glad that there are a lot of discussions here that have been put in place as Minister of Agriculture, namely the question of food banks and the question of Czech food labelling. But I'd like to remind you that's not why this novel is here. The amendment is also here mainly because of the reason that a lot has also been discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies and in the media area, and this is the issue of double food quality. So let us say that one of the very important points is also that this amendment implements the effort that we, as the Czech Republic, have had in the last six years when we opened the issue of double food quality in the European Parliament, on the Council of Ministers. We have managed to get this topic on the ground of the Commission and we have agreed on our initiative and cooperation with other states that it will be dealt with, and we are in the implementation phase today. So that's the first important thing to mention. And the debates that are going on here. I would like to say that it is a matter of competence. [[♪ to ♪]] It has also been discussed here in the previous periods, and in my work we have planned this change, and I must say that - I do not want to go into the detailed arguments here, but also in the light of the situation in which we are today and obviously long months, we may even be years - so I think that the priorities of the workers' work are somewhere else today. And if we are able to saturate some control activities very well, well and evenly by another supervisory authority that doesn't claim any extra people or extra money, and we can only prove the condition that has been de facto set up here in the last few months, so I think it's nothing against anything, and it can't be understood as an attack on someone or some organizational component of the state or other resort. So much for this matter. Then there is a lot of discussion here about the share of Czech food. I was here last year with the first amendment co-signed. I said that I made a mistake signing this amendment, and I am convinced that the European Commission, and if we were to reach the European Court of Justice in an absurd situation, would not be right if we approved this proposal. It will be classified as a matter contrary to European legislation. I would urge us to look for other ways to promote the quality of Czech producers, the short supply chain, local local producers from small family farms to our traditional businesses here. The tools are here. Some have already been mentioned here in the legislative proposals that are tabled. I confess, I had two amendments tabled, which also developed the support of our domestic consumers in this spirit, but I am unfortunately - and I am very sorry - when discussing the second reading, I did not sign up for these amendments, so I will submit them through my colleagues in the Senate, and they will also be able to show consumers how many pesticides, how many antibiotics are needed by Czech farmers in the production of products and foodstuffs, and how much is needed abroad, in addition to information on the price and composition of the product from the point of view of the main components, the consumer also has this information, which I think is very important from the consumer's decision-making point of view. And then I think there's a great deal of space for the founders, especially from public founders such as the state, hospitals, faculty hospitals, regions, cities, municipalities where there are school dining rooms, dining rooms at senior homes and the like, to increase significantly the share of domestic food and the share of mainly organic foods here. I think, and with that I have appealed to the Minister of Health in the past, that, for example, in a department such as oncology, neonatal wards and the like, there I would see as a clear space and priority for organic foods to be used here. It is a clear signal of how we want to increase the quality of food in these departments and hospitals and to expand it in the future. So I have prepared this proposal in terms of increasing the share of organic food in the public food sector, and we will present it in the Senate. So much for these matters. As far as food banks are concerned, I am glad that food banks are developing here, that there is some refinement here and in legislation, so that the good name and work of food banks are not abused. That's what I think is important, that's what's right. So much for this matter. And I will be happy to come after - I think a year and a half - to allow this legislation to be passed on to colleagues in the Senate at third reading. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u29	I thank Mr Marian Jurečka. Mr Petr Bendl, who has been duly applied for, will now appear, the last to be entered in the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u30	Thank you again. Since I have not read the legislative technical proposal and have not proposed it, I will do so now, because, following the legislative recommendation, I recommend that an amendment be made to my amendment C3 by inserting the word 'food business operator' in accordance with paragraph 1. 2 and 3. And for the record, I'd rather read the whole paragraph, so that there's no doubt as to how these words are legally applied there. Amendment C3 in Part One, Article 1 the following point shall be inserted after point X: X. In Article 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 complements the new paragraph 5, which reads... In Article 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following paragraph 5 is added: "Number 5 - when distributing foodstuffs'. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 and 3.' So much for my legislative technical adjustment. I ask the rapporteur whether he would record it, if he wishes, I will give it to him in writing. [[10.50 hours]] And also a comment on what Mr Holomčík said: I did not go into these techniques anymore, I am simply convinced that the Ministry of Agriculture actually wishes that this changeling should not be approved by the European Commission at all, because it is in practice unrealistic. It is not possible in time, as SPD or colleague Fiala here suggests that it will be necessary - and I will read it better not to commit a faux pas - that it will not measure what I offer, but what I sell. Which doesn't say what time it's going to be controlled. Will it be checked for a month sold, a week, a day, a day checked? How are you gonna do that if you don't do it? You say that it will be an obligation to sell 73 percent of nuts, what if nuts are not on the Czech market? How do you do that? Just don't. Or fruit. There's gonna be a year that just won't wish for fruit farmers. What about it? People go to buy nuts 200 meters across the border, those who have it close, but those who have it far away, just don't. You put about 150 there, or I didn't exactly count it, items that are required to sell, not offer. As my colleague Holomčík rightly said here, rape oil, food salt, soups, bujons, breakfast cereals and other cereal grain products, the obligation to sell 73 per cent maximum. So you want the seller to keep an eye on it in time? In what time? What's it gonna tie to? How will it be controlled? Under millions of checks. No, I don't think it was meant to be. Just those who wrote it, all they cared about was: we'll tell the citizens: Czech food, that's a nice title. The European Commission will eventually drop it, so at least we will talk to the ugly and ugly European Union, because they have prevented us from selling Czech food here again. I am deeply convinced that this proposal and the farmers, the real farmers, are rather insulting. They know this isn't the way. But every consumer or shopper doesn't have to understand it completely. He does not know the details of the amendment, which will not be approved in the end, because it would be the State Agricultural and Food Inspection and all - the Ministry of Agriculture - if they were to control it in any way... It's not crazy just for those who should act like it and sell the goods. So it's just a political declaration, completely empty and stupidly written.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u31	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. If no one signs up for debate, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? He's interested in the final word. Before I give you my word, Minister, the Minister apologizes for business reasons from 11 p.m. even the Minister of Health Jan Blatný. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u32	So once again and for the last time, I want to thank everyone who's been performing here. I want to thank you for the constructive debate. I think it is good that we are talking about what will help Czech agriculture, Czech food industry, Czech consumers. And I want to ask you all to buy Czech, Moravian and Silesian food. That's gonna help us the most. Let us be a little nationalist about food, Czech agriculture and our country. That's what I'm asking you to do. And the fact that the law is needed, please, just to lighten it up a little: look, when you're having coffee, what kind of milk you pour in here in the House. You're all pouring German milk. So the law is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u33	Thank you. The final words of the rapporteurs. The rapporteur of the agricultural committee Pavel Kováčik? He's interested. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only briefly before the final voting machine develops. I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that 12 Members have spoken in the debate, one proposal has been made to supplement the legislative technical adaptations from my colleague Bendl, and if anyone does not doubt that this is not a legislative technical amendment, then I would then like to include this proposal in the proposal for legislative technical amendments from my colleague Bendl to other legislative technical adaptations and I will propose to vote en bloc. This is all about the rapporteur's final report, Mr President. If there's no other request, we can move on to the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u35	Thank you. Now the final word of the rapporteurs of the other committees. Mrs Věra Adámková for the Health Committee. Is he interested? He's not interested. A colleague of Bžoch? He is interested in the final word for the Committee on European Affairs. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to introduce you, ladies and gentlemen, briefly, very briefly to the discussions on this point on the European Committee. We dealt with this press mainly because of the amendment introducing quotas for Czech food. Today we have another proposal, but our resolution also takes into account this proposal and is very brief. You can find it in the House press 502/7. As regards the establishment of quotas for foodstuffs, for goods, this determination is in direct conflict with the primary law of the European Union, namely Article 34 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on import. The setting of quotas shall be considered to have equivalent effect to a quantitative restriction. Therefore, it is directly contrary to this primary law of the European Union. Therefore, I cannot vote for him for this reason. If this were to happen to the European Court of Justice, it would put us on our heads, it is not possible to vote in this way. As for the debate on this, I am in favour, yes, we are to discuss how to support our farmers, we are to discuss how to have a self-sufficient Czech Republic, but this debate also belongs at the level of the European Union. We have a common agricultural policy. Today, agricultural policy covers 40 percent of the European Union's budget. This is a huge amount of money that we are putting into agriculture, and we must therefore have fun on European Union soil, whether it is distributed correctly, whether it is fair or whether some states benefit from small states. Furthermore, we can also talk about whether it is beneficial that when someone has a surplus, such as potatoes, and brings them to us across Europe for ridiculous money, whether a carbon footprint is what we really want from it, or whether we should support local farmers. But it is a debate to the level of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u37	I thank the rapporteur, Mr Bžoch. And we can move on to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Agricultural Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give the opinion of the Guarantee Committee before voting on them. I'll ask the minister to do the same. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, so I would like to propose a procedure for voting as rapporteur for the guarantee committee. The votes will be in the resolution that the guarantee committee I. recommends the Chamber of Deputies to vote in the third reading on the draft bill in the following order: first to vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments. I would just like to point out that the legislation and other matters are in print 502/9, plus three of the legislative technical modifications that I have read and one of the legislative technical amendments that Mr Bendl has read at the third reading. So I suggest we vote on these modifications en bloc. [[Loud calls in the hall.]] The second vote will then be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u39	I ask the House to remain calm, so that the rapporteur may present the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u40	In the second vote, we will vote on Mr Josef Kott's amendments under letter G, House document 6484. I just point out that if it is accepted, it will become an unvoteable A2 proposal. In the third vote - Mr Kott - under letter G, House document 6485. In the fourth vote - Mr Josef Kott G's amendments, House document 6487, namely I and II en bloc with one vote. [[11.00 hours]] In the fifth vote, Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 6510 I to III, en bloc with one vote. In the sixth vote, we will vote on Mr Josef Kott's proposals under letter G, House document 6342, I and II, en bloc with one vote. Mr Josef Kott's proposal under the letter G, House document 5963, I to IX, en bloc will then be voted in the seventh vote with one vote. Here I point out that if G is adopted, House document 5963 II will become an unvoted proposal A4. If G is adopted, House document 5964 III will become an unvoting A6. If the G, House document 5963 IV, is adopted, it will become an unvoting A11 and also the proposal by Mr Holomčík F, House document 6745 3. If G is adopted, House document 5963 VI will become an unvoting proposal under A14. In the eighth vote, Mr Josef Kott's amendment to the letter G, House document 6967, Amendment point I and II, en bloc will be one vote. Then, in the ninth vote, we come to the amendments of the Agricultural Committee A1 to A16, en bloc with one vote, while A2 is unvoteable if Mr Kott g is adopted, House document 6484. A4 is unvoted if Mr Kott's proposal is adopted, House document 5963 II. A6 is unvoted if a proposal by Mr Kott G is adopted, House document 5963 III. If A9 is adopted, it will become an unvoting proposal by Mr Bendl C1 III and by Mr Luzar under H II. If A10 is accepted, Mr Bendl C1-3 and Mr Luzar H2 will become unvoting. A11 is unvoted if Mr Kott is adopted under the letter G, House document 5963 IV. If the vote is taken and the A11 is adopted, Mr Holomčík, under the letter F, will become an unvoting colleague, House document 6745 3. A14 is unvoted if Mr Kott is adopted under the letter G, House document 5963 VI. In the tenth vote, Mr Fiala's amendments to Mr I1 through Mr I9, en bloc will be one vote, and if I2 is adopted, Mr Holomčík F will become an unvoted colleague, House document 6745 1. If I3 through I6 is adopted, Mr Bendl will become an unvoted colleague with proposal C1 III and Mr Luzar H II. If the I8 is adopted, a colleague named Holomčík under letter F will become unvoting, House document 6745 3. In the 11th vote, it is Mrs Olga Richterová's vote under letter B. In the 12th vote, the amendment by Mr Petr Bendl C1 I to C1 III, en bloc by one vote, with C1 II being adopted, will become an unvoting colleague of Luzar H II. C III. is non-voting if A10 or Fiala I3 to I6 is accepted. If the vote is taken and C1 III is adopted, Mr Luzar will become an unvoting colleague with proposal H II. The 13th vote will then be voted on by Mr Petr Bendl's proposal under letter C3. If C3 is adopted, it will not be possible to vote C2 1 and 2 because it is a variant adjustment. In the 14th vote, we will vote on Petr Bendl's amendments under letters C2 1 and 2, en bloc by one vote, with C2 1 and 2 unvoted if C3 is adopted, this is a variant amendment. In the fifteenth vote, Mr Jiří Běhounek's amendment to Mr D1 through Mr D5, en bloc by one vote. In the 16th vote, Mr Vlastimil's amendment to the Válek under E. In the 17th vote, Mr Radek Holomčík F's amendment, House document 6744 1 and 2, en bloc with one vote. In the eighteenth vote, Mr Radek Holomčík F's amendments, House document 6745 1 to 3, en bloc by one vote, while Mr Holomčík's colleague with proposal F, House document 6745 1, is unvoteable if Mr Fiala and his proposal I2 are adopted. Mr Holomčík, under the letter F, House document 6745 3, is unvoting if A11, House document 5963 4 or Fiala I8 is adopted. In the 19th vote then, if there is anything else to vote on, Mr Leo Luzar H1 through H3, en bloc with one vote. H1 is unvoted if the proposal of Mr Bendl C1 III is adopted. H2 is non-voting if accepted by A9 or A10, or by a colleague of Bendl C1 III or Fiala I3 to I6. And in the 20th vote, I will finally ask you, Mr President, to vote on the bill as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted. So much procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u41	Thank you, we heard the draft procedure. Does anyone have a proposal to change the procedure put forward by the agricultural committee and the rapporteur? It's not like that. We will decide on the procedure for voting in vote number 39. I'll check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'll get back on track. [[Gong.]] Once the number of applicants has settled, we will decide in vote number 39 on the proposed procedure. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 39, out of 102 of the 101s present, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we'll follow the procedure. The first vote is on legislative technical adaptations. Isn't that right? [[Rapporteur Kováčik: Yes.]] Opinions are? [[- Agreed. Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Positive. I've started voting number 40. I'm asking who's in favour of legislative technical regulations. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 40, 102 present, 102 in favour. We can move on. First draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u42	Thank you. I therefore beg you, Mr President, to vote on the amendment by Mr Josef Kott under letter G, House document 6484.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u43	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 41. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 41, 102 present, for 82, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u44	We will now vote on Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 6485. The Guarantee Committee proposes a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u45	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 42. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 42. Of the 101 Members present for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u46	Yes, thank you. Now, I ask you to vote on Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 6487, I and II, en bloc with one vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u47	Opinion? [[The Guarantee Committee proposes a positive opinion.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 43. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 43, there are 101 Members present, for 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u48	Thank you. I now ask you to vote on Mr Josef Kott G's amendment, House document 6510, I to III, en bloc with one vote. The Guarantee Committee proposes a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u49	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 44. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 44, out of 100 in favour of 85, against 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u50	Now, Mr President, please vote in favour of Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 6342, I and II, en bloc with one vote. The Guarantee Committee proposes a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u51	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 45. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 45, from 100 Members present for 86, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u52	Now, please, we will vote on Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 5963, I to IX, en bloc with one vote. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: proposes a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u53	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 46. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 46, 100 present, for 65, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u54	Thank you. Now, on Mr Josef Kott's amendment under letter G, House document 6967, paragraph I and VII, en bloc, by one vote. The guarantee committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u55	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 47. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 47, present 101 Members, for 73, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u56	Thank you. We are now coming to the vote on the remaining proposals from the Agricultural Committee after the proposals under letter G have been voted out of the proposals from the Agricultural Committee, so we are voting on the remaining ones, these are: A1, A3, A5, A7, A8, A9, A10, A12, A13, A15 and A16, en bloc, with one vote. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u57	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 48. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 48, 103, for 80, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u58	We are now in the tenth vote, Mr Radim Fiala's amendments I1 to I9, en bloc, with one vote. Just a reminder, this is the mandatory share of Czech food on the counters. The Agricultural Committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u59	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 49. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 49, 102, for 49, versus 34. The motion was not accepted. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] If there's no interest in controlling the vote, I'll wait. Mr. Kubíček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u60	Thank you. I'm questioning the vote. I voted in favour. I'm late for high school. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u61	Okay. We will decide on the proposal for a contradiction between the intention of the Member and the electronic record of the outcome of the vote in the vote number 50 that I have begun, and I ask, who is in favour, to comply with Mr Kubíček? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 50, 104 present, for 99 against 1. Well, my colleague Radim Fiala has yet to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u62	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to question anything, but I'd like to ask you for five minutes' recess for a club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u63	Well, we can't do that during the vote, except before the final vote on the law as a whole. That is the Rules of Procedure, so if not, we will repeat the vote on the proposal by Radim Fiala under item 10 in Parliament's press 502/9. Opinions once again - the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u64	The Agricultural Committee, as a guarantee committee, recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u65	Positive. Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] Neutral. On request from the diaper, I'll sign you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applicants has settled, I will launch voting number 51 on the 10th amendment that we are voting on. I think we have enough. I've started voting number 51. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 51, from 100 Members present for 57, against 35. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] I'll wait, I see there's an interest in controlling the vote. If there is no one to report, then we can proceed, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u66	We do not see anyone, and therefore we are going to the 11th vote, this is the amendment by Mrs Olga Richterová under letter B. The Guarantee Committee recommends a positive position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u67	Minister. [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 52. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 52, 103 present, 86 pros, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u68	The other proposal, i.e. the twelfth vote, is Petr Bendl C1 I and Mr C1 II's amendments. I would remind you that C1 III is unvoted by the adoption of Mr Fiala's amendment under letter I. I recommend voting en bloc with one vote. The guarantee committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 53. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 53. 103 present, for 14, anti 28. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u70	We have a thirteenth vote ahead of us. It is Mr Petr Bendl C3's amendment. The guarantee committee recommends a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u71	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 54. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 54. At present 103, for 101 MPs, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u72	Since the proposal by Mr Bendl's C3 has been adopted right now, the unvoteable proposals by C2 I and C2 II are an alternative amendment, and we therefore come to the vote by Mr Jiří Běhounek D1 to D5, en bloc with one vote, with the guarantee committee recommending a positive opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u73	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 55 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 55. Of the 103 Members present for 88, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u74	And we are in favour of Mr Vlastimil Válek's amendment to the letter E, the guarantee committee recommends a positive position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u75	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I started voting number 56. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 56. 103 present, for 83, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u76	We are now voting on Radek Holomčík's amendment under letter F, House document 6744, 1 and 2, en bloc with one vote. The guarantee committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u77	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 57. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 57. 103 present, for 28, anti 28. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u78	The next proposal is Mr Radek Holomčík's proposals under letter F, House document 6745, only part two, because part one and three are unvoted by the adoption of previous proposals I2, A11 or under House document 5963 4 or I8. So we are voting only in House document 6745-2. The guarantee committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u79	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 58. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 58. 103 present, for 13, against 17. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u80	We are now in the case of Mr Le Luzar's amendments under the letters H1 and H3. H2 is non-voting, A9 or A10 has been accepted. That means we only vote H1 and H3 with our colleague Luzar. The guarantee committee recommends a negative opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u81	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 59. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 59. Of the 103 present for 6, versus 38. The motion was not accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u82	Yes, according to my records, we have exhausted all the amendments and now we have to vote on the law as a whole, as amended by the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-20-ps2017-079-02-002-347.u83	All the proposers of the amendments are satisfied, no one objects, so all the proposals have been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 110/1997 Coll., on Food and Tobacco Products and amending and supplementing certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 502, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I've started voting number 60, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 60. Of the 103 Members present for 66, against 29. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Agriculture, thank you to the rapporteurs, and I finish point 347. We'll continue with the next third reading, point number
