ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u1	9. The draft law amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and on the amendment of certain other laws /house print 503/5/ - returned by the Senate We interrupted this item on 13 April in the debate at the 98th meeting. I would remind you that the Senate has returned the bill with amendments. His resolution was delivered as House Press 503/6. Information on the amendments has been sent to your mail. I'm gonna ask you to go to the news desk... Minister Plaga is excused. [[However, about a minute later, he arrived in the meeting room.]] Welcome, Senator Jiří Drahoš, hello. The rapporteur was Mr Lukáš Bartoň, who is excused, and will be Mrs Miloslava Rutová. We will continue the adjourned debate. At that point, Mr Antonín Staněk's speech was suspended, but he does not wish to continue, he has already said everything, or he will come forward again. In that case, Mr Karel Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u2	Mr President of the House, Madam Minister, Minister, honourable Members, please allow me to express my objection to both the Senate version and the House's version of the draft law on teaching workers. First of all, I would like to say that the Senate version removes some more or less formal legislative shortcomings in Parliament's bill, but unfortunately the fundamental problems that I have raised to my fellow Members in the House and which have been linked to a number of amendments to the House press have remained there. First of all, I would like to state, which the Minister will probably also say, that the coalition is being implemented and at this point has already fulfilled the Government's statement on the increase in salaries for teachers, which is publicly stated, that I quote: "The government will push more money into education so that teachers' salaries at the end of the election period in 2021 will reach at least 150 per cent of their current amount, which has been met. The average salary of the teacher is almost 46 000 CZK." Here I put emphasis on the word mediocre. And now a few comments and opinions on the Senate's return. In my opinion, the adoption of that Senate bill in practice may lead to a reduction in the existing quality of teacher training, and I will explain why. Previously, that is, in the current law, it was to provide quality experts for a specific job. Today, that is in the draft bill submitted, it is more about the occupation of the box at all costs, regardless of the teaching qualification and quality of the teacher. I have always publicly supported the long-term intention of strengthening the position of head of the school as a manager, particularly in the area of the management of people and the pedagogical process and the intention of increasing experts from practice to teaching. Of course, we are also interested in solving the burning problem of the lack of vocational training teachers in secondary vocational education. However, in the event of the adoption of the Senate vomit, these objectives will largely remain unfulfilled. Consider, for example, financial flows. By making all the funds available in the proposal only to the tariffs and the rewards remain completely sideways, the director whose managerial role we want to strengthen will be in the role of a postman who will transfer funds from the region or from the Ministry as a teacher machine. And I think that it certainly does not contribute to strengthening the role of director as manager. And not all teachers are of course quality. Just look in the final report of the Czech inspection or talk to students or parents. Moreover, the increase in salaries is not all-savory. We will meet with specific cases where quality, young, enthusiastic teachers go after a year or several years, regardless of the increase in their wages outside the field, poisoned by the current situation. When you try to put everything into learning and eventually you have on the payroll as well as a colleague who spews work, it's frustrating. Unfortunately, the Pirate Amendment, which has already been adopted in the House and in the Senate, confirms me in the view that the pirát have only a verbal interest in increasing the competences and managerial powers of the Director, but in fact they are only interested in increasing the tariff without insurance to ensure the quality of teachers and their teaching. Why? It's easy for everyone to answer that a few months before the election. In the event of the adoption of this amendment to the Education Worker Act, the quality of teaching in secondary schools will get another slap in the face. I am thinking of the possibility of a three-year moratorium on the education of people outside the educational field. There is a risk of misuse of this proposal, which allows some directors to employ friends and known to renew their employment after three years, or exchange these undereducated educators among themselves. This amendment seeks to address the lack of educators in some regions and, in my opinion, badly. It's not just about adding tables and states. It's about getting our kids the best education they can from real experts. Thanks to the adaptations contained in Section 7a and in Section 22, graduates of non-teaching secondary and second grade primary schools can obtain full qualification not only in higher education. This education may be provided in addition to a university by any commercial company or non-profit organisation. And I think it's pretty important. We basically put commercial companies or nonprofits into education. This will allow a pedagogically unqualified expert to be qualified not to study a supplementary pedagogical minimum of 250 hours, which is currently provided by universities. [[14.50 hours]] Newly it will be sufficient to obtain the same teacher qualification to study pedagogy which has only 120 hours, of which practice is only 5 hours, and which will be able to offer any nonprofit or commercial company. As a result, there will be no interest in high-quality 250-hour university courses of supplementary teaching because they are twice as long, therefore more demanding and also more expensive, and will be a problem with guaranteeing the minimum quality of these courses from those private companies. The Director may then divert state funds intended to increase the qualification of a technically or naturalist college student without a pedagogical qualification for a friendly non-profit that anyone can establish. I do not want to discuss the quality of accreditation processes, I will limit myself to saying that the Ministry of Education itself admits that this is more or less a formal process. As I have already said, the main deficiency in the proposal is that it does not contain safeguards against possible abuse. The amendment will allow school directors to recognise the qualifications of teachers to people who do not really have them. The parent will not even know that his child is taught by a person without pedagogical education because he will be officially regarded as a qualified teacher from a legislative point of view. As I said, the proposal lacks insurance to prevent, for example, a graduate architect teaching Czech or a political scientist of mathematics. Amateur without pedagogical education can do irreparable damage when teaching pupils with special educational needs, such as pupils with autism, mild mental disability or dyslexia. This is how special educators criticize the novel. According to the amendment, the school's headmaster will be able to qualify for three years without pedagogical training. But there is no insurance to prevent these three-year exceptions from being chained indefinitely. Let us remember recently, about four years ago, here in the House discussions over management and legal programmes such as MBA, LL.M., MPA and the like, which were previously accredited by an internationally accepted foreign university, which could then of course carry out international studies. However, the Czech institutions, most often universities, were able to carry out these international programmes on the territory of the Czech Republic as well as on the basis of the so-called validation. By lobbying certain organisations and university components, a sentence was introduced to the amendment to the Higher Education Act, according to which accreditation can be provided by virtually any managerial educational institution, not just a university that has validation from a renowned university. And today we have carriers of MBA, MPA, LL.M. And I don't know what else, even among the people here in this room, a lot. They are people who have not done the mentioned study at a quality institution, but at an educational centre in some Upper Lower, a village like South Moravia. I could say a lot of specific cases. And so we will have not only carriers of MBA studies, where only their business card is most valuable, but also, unfortunately, teachers, which we will have in two categories - one duly educated at university and the other, who will get it through the speed of the audio organized by dubious nonprofits or commercial firms. And this, dear colleagues, is what we want? In the event of the adoption of a Senate return to the draft law with the approval of the Director, he may endlessly complete his education, and the Director may renew his employment contract after three years, or a student who has no pedagogical education, but professional or technical or naturalist education, then transfer to another primary or secondary school and then repeat everything here. However, I would like to draw attention to the huge difference between fake MBA managers and an unfinished amateur teacher. Such a manager does not need to be married by a careful firm, only the business card that he can possibly charm, or, if you want, fool the neighborhood. This is the problem of an individual company that accepts or rejects the service of such an educated manager, but often the parent will not even know that his child is taught by a poor-quality teacher, because from the point of view of the law adopted, this amateur, educated by similar experts from a nonprofit, will be officially regarded as a qualified teacher. The state would then consecrate poor quality, and we Members will still be shining. Another problem with this proposal lies in opening scissors between salaries in regional education and salaries in higher education. But the autonomy of universities does not mean that the state will not pursue the salary policy of higher education institutions. Not one university in the world, including America, has been able to cover operating costs in the long run only by selling scientific research activities, and this, of course, concerns more and more Central European universities. If Valachová's secretary invested in regional primary education between 2015 and 2017, not only in salaries but also in other activities such as popular inclusion - in order of more than CZK 10 billion, then significantly less funds were invested in higher education wages in the order of lower units of CZK billion for several dozen universities. By consecrating the pirát's tariff automaton, which will increase wages across the board in regional education, the scissors will continue to expand. We can thus very soon look forward to the personnel crisis at universities, especially at the level of the expert assistants. Finally, my fellow Members and colleagues, allow me to think briefly. What happens if the Senate's return is not adopted, or the parliamentary amendment that has significantly changed the original government proposal? I have a simple answer for that: nothing. In schools, teachers who have no doubts about their ability to teach will not fail to finance universities, and the good in the amendment is simply written into ministerial decrees thanks to a rich discussion on this bill. I am thinking, in particular, of anchoring the position of a class teacher and his activities with the guarantee of a higher bonus. From what I have said, it is clear, my fellow Members, that I will not support either the Senate vomit or the parliamentary initiative of the opposition, especially the pirát, a very distorted parliamentary version of the original government proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u3	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. All I wanted to do was respond to my colleague Rais. I wanted to ask if there was any brainwashing in your country, in other words, if there was any brainwashing in the ANO parliamentary club, because when I look at the vote on this law at the third reading, when the House acted in half, it was out of 78 members of the ANO movement, which therefore has 39 members in the quota, when we act in half because of the epidemic, 39 voted in favour of this proposal, including Mr Rais. So I wonder what happened here between the third reading and today's vote on the technical adjustment of the Senate, which doesn't change the meaning of the law at all. The only thing that happened is that the Treasury Secretary doesn't want to add to the teachers, so she convinced you all that now you have to fight it. But that's total nonsense. The law will ensure that teachers will have a perspective in the future, and that is exactly what we need for our country and for our future, and these arguments are completely made up in the context of how you voted at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u5	It's not the only factual point. Mr Antonín Staněk, then Mr Rais, then the Minister of Finance, came forward with all the factual points. Mr. Rais volunteered again, yes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. In the light of the factual point, three comments were made. Note one. I don't know if it's right or wrong, but I want to stand up for Professor Rais and I really consider words about brainwashing to be an outrage! [[Upset.]] Outrageousness of the highest order. [[15.00 hours]] Everyone in this Chamber of Deputies has the right to respond to arguments that are gradually coming into our mailboxes, as with any other law. And I think Professor Rais, and I'm sorry that I'm defending him, he certainly knows how to defend himself, but I've taken mine for my positions on this law, and from the start I thought it was totally unacceptable, especially because of the fact that the qualifications of future teachers are being reduced. Today, it is evident that with salary increases, those teachers who are interested in this work come back. And I reject any formulation about brainwashing. Sorry I had to raise my voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u7	Another factual point, Mr Rais, then the Minister of Finance. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u8	Thank you. I'm gonna smile at the nonsense of brainwashing. I'm not being brainwashed by anyone, not even my wife, let alone someone at the club. I'm consistent in my opinions, and I can prove that to you by being the rapporteur for the club. I put it in writing maybe a month ago, I don't remember, quite a long time. I still have the same opinion that I put forward in writing, just put both of these materials aside. I even signed up for that one. Now we could talk about things. If you want to put all your money on tariffs and be popular and populist, then cancel those directors! They're fucked up, they're useless. Do we want managers, then? Verbally, maybe, not really. And that's how we could continue with the individual arguments. Unlike you, I'm sorry, I've been having a discussion here about the previous college law, which, by letting the education system of teachers, although managers, basically nonprofits and commercial companies, has completely degraded MBA, LL.M., I don't know which one you want, BA and all the possible studies that I personally conducted from England 30 years ago, with colleagues, of course. [[Hons.]] So I'm convinced about what I wrote here, and I stress that I keep saying the same thing, and I even signed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u9	Thank you. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová. Mr Ferjenčík will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Chairman, allow me a few words. I am not an expert on teaching staff, I will not interfere with my government colleague, Minister Plag, in his capacity, but I have no reason to doubt that he has sent this law to the Chamber of Deputies with good intentions. I'm sure he was following up on solving some problems that the resort has and that this area has. However, by a completely irresponsible proposal of the pirát, completely irresponsible, this law basically, and unfortunately I have to say, I hope it falls under the table. There is no more priority group, and it is so good than the teachers that this government has been adding money to salaries and addressing regional education reform that it has inherited from the previous government. It's tens of billions and it's a good thing because it's an area we need to strengthen. So once again, I'm going to take this graph up. [[He's pointing.]] I've had it since 2008. So the little red columns you see here, in 2008, it was 24 007, the average salary of teachers. We promised in the government's programming statement that we would raise this salary to 45,000. Now the budgeted amount for 2021 is CZK 45 495. The assumption is that it will be higher than 46 000 crowns, because all seats are not occupied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u11	Your time, Madam Secretary. [[May I continue, then?]] You can apply again for a factual remark. First Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Michálek and then you. [[- Then with priority.]] Well, with priority rights. Okay, I marked it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond to colleague Staněk and colleague Rais. Firstly, with my colleague Staněk I acknowledge that he is consistent, he has long tried to sink this law, unfortunately now it seems that he will succeed. However, my colleague Rais here has been flamingly criticizing the passages that were part of the government's draft. And once again, you personally voted in favour of this law on 27 January 2021 at 9.25 p.m. So I don't understand how you're gonna come out here half a year later with the fact that the law is a complete disaster? Then why did you vote for him?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u13	Mr Michálek, then Mr Rais - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u14	Thanks for the word. I just wanted to make sure that I heard correctly if I can trust my ears that the Minister of Finance has just said that it is completely irresponsible to give the perspective of teachers that their salaries will continue to grow. And that is precisely the proposal that the pirát have put forward and for which we have received support in this Chamber of Deputies. It's a proposal we didn't come up with, but it was invented by CERGE researchers who made long-term projections. What depends on the long-term prosperity of the Czech Republic, the future, our economy? Well, on the fact that there are people here who are going to produce something that's valuable to the world, we're going to have a good teaching that will educate such children, and in order to have them, we have to get the best people into education. And the only way we're gonna pull them in is if they have a long-term perspective. So what you guys have done is that you're actually overreacting to each election in how much you're going to add in that parliamentary term, that's not a long-term perspective, that's the worst and most expensive solution of all the solutions you can take, because you're still gonna have the same people there, you're not gonna attract anyone new, no one else, and it's just gonna cost more money. So that's why we came up with the alternative. We're talking about the system, we want a long-term valuation of teachers' salaries. And what you're doing here is just treason on teachers. You'll make promises again, you'll argue again every year before the election, you'll fight back with election vows. Those teachers don't want that at all. It shouldn't be about votes, but it should be about a system that we need to set up for the long term and for the entire future of our state. And here I can't see the care for the future from your side at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u15	Mr Rais, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u16	Thank you. Maybe my colleague Ferjenčík said yes, but I never said or didn't speak in the sense that the government proposal or the proposal from the House is a scumbag. There's a line, and I said that, good thoughts that somehow translate into the Minister's decrees. Of course, I don't like it, and I'm saying again, the role to make the school manager, and I don't really care if it's a college or, in this case, a elementary, high school, so that the principal can just watch the money run by him, flowing around, and he can't distinguish, redirect the money to the good and the bad teacher. The result is, and I see it around me again - in Brno, when I look at secondary schools, that quality young people run away after a few years. What I wrote in there is all supported. That's not House talk. They just leave because the principal can't or won't take into account the fact that someone's doing three times more than the other one. That's what it says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u17	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Nacher. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u18	Good afternoon. I would like to ask my colleague Ferjenčík, whom I know from the Prague Council, to find strength and apologize to Professor Rais, because we can differ here in different opinions, if anyone is consistent, who is not. I know Mr. Karel Rais, his views on the club, on the contrary, is very consistent with all the performances. If you look at media monitoring, he also talked about it on TV during his performances, but talking about brainwashing seems like he's really over the line. Mr. Colleague, if you could apologize to the professor, however you may not agree with him, but none of us, when we're talking about consistency of opinion, have ever used the fact that someone here has brainwashed or that someone at the club has been brainwashed or what you said. I don't think they belong at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u19	Mr Ferjenčík, factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Firstly, I would like to respond to my colleague, Rais, through you, because it is the proposal we have on the table that addresses the poor salaries of the incoming teachers. It is the proposal that ensures that the salaries of early educators will rise faster than today, which is one of the benefits of this proposal. So I don't know why to use it as an argument against. And in response to a colleague named Nacher. It really seems incomprehensible to me that my colleague Rais supported this proposal all along, and now he has made a contribution that was not about the one article about raising the salaries of teachers, but he has listed a number of paragraphs of the government proposal and started to talk about the fact that those sections of the government proposal that you put in here are actually all wrong and that he wants it to be rejected. That's what I blame him for. I may have used too strong a term, but the turn is actually remarkable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u21	A point of fact, Mr Nacher.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u22	Well, my colleague, through Mr President, I sit on those clubs, I know what Mr Rais is saying and what his position is. I have to say, it's consistent. But even if he wasn't in your eyes, the expression you used here doesn't belong here. That is what we are talking about here, towards any Member, not just a Member who is a professor and who should... at your age, you should look to him in some respect, given his experience and his past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u23	Mr Michálek, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for Mr Ferjenčík and his expression brainwashing, through Mr President, and I hope that you will find in you the same humility and decency to apologise for all the injustice and indecency and dishonesty that he has published on the address of the other political parties on Twitter and which has been spoken here in the Chamber of Deputies. I think it would be an excellent signal for Czech political culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u25	Thank you. And I have two further factual points - Mrs Pekarová Adamová and then Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I certainly wouldn't use the expressions used by my colleagues here, but let's not focus on what they said in terms of, say, the turnover that occurred, but let's focus on the turnover that happened at all. How can you explain that even a few weeks ago, you were willing to support it, and suddenly you weren't? This is the report that is very important to all teachers and that there are thousands in the Czech Republic. How is it that, even a while ago, when the novel went to the Senate, it went with this modification, and now it is possible for you to throw it all under the table? That's what we're supposed to be dealing with, not the way anybody gets around here. And I agree with my colleague, the previous speaker, that if we had to ask for apologies for every raid that has been made since the counter by some ministers, including the Prime Minister, you're here to apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u27	A point of fact, Mr Kasal - he is disturbing it. Mr. Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u28	I promise this will be the last time. I'm asking you nicely, I've made it quite clear. There's some kind of written trace of me. As for the relationship to practice, the role of manager, not only the director, I have written this many times, sometimes Google this Raise in custody to practice, and there you will see it. As for a few weeks ago, I still have a consistent opinion, and I wrote it, even on the club. And it matches exactly what I said a moment ago - to reject both of them. So I'm consistent in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u29	Thank you. With priority rights, Madam Secretary of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm gonna go back to that again because I didn't know I didn't have a priority right, and two minutes really isn't enough. So let me reminisce about the graph. [[He's pointing.]] There are no groups regardless of the fact that we have been going through the most difficult crisis since the 1930s than teachers have. And we stand by what we promised them, and they get more than we promised them, so we just kept it. [[Member Pikal comes to the speaker's counter and looks closely at the presented material.]] The problem with the Pirate Party proposal, and I repeat again, irresponsible - I'll put it on the net, Mr Vice-President, as soon as this meeting is over, it'll go on the net right away, I didn't want to take the big one, because it's so unforeign. The problem is an irresponsible pirate proposal that makes teachers' salaries a mandatorial expense, which would not be the worst, but their growth from next year is by 18.6 percent. By 18.6 percent, which means an increase on the expenditure side, even if we took a Senate proposal that reduced it a little bit, we don't know what the House would be leaning towards, about 24 billion. In addition to the fact that we already have deficit management today, I am blamed for the deficit of 390 billion, although it is lower by 110 billion, that is, compared to Plan 2021, and believe that I will calculate and very soon publish the cuts planned by the various electoral programmes of both coalitions, because they are truly brutal and unrealistic - if they mean it seriously, it would mean that this deficit is unstoppable, that if I take the things that are still in negotiations, such as the payment for state policy holders - you will surely agree with me that health is the greatest priority, such as social laws, where the opposition has particularly broken down and social changes are returning to us for about 8.4 billion, we would be on the next 24 billion, and that means that we will be brutally cutting off on the spending side. So on the one hand, a group of teachers that is important - we stand by our keeping our promises - will grow by almost 19 percent, but firemen, policemen, social services, and others will go down 15 percent. We'll cut the grant programs, we'll underline the investment. Is that what we want? Is that what we want at a time when we're starting to get out of the crisis? When we helped people with tax cuts, when we just helped ammunition, we're gonna take everything away from everyone? Yes, the experience was here in the last crisis. This would be a much worse patch. So this is the subject of this irresponsible proposal. I have already agreed with the Minister of Education to increase the education chapter by 5.5 billion in this first draft budget approved by the government. We agreed that, in summer, as far as budget options are concerned, we would be discussing the increase in the salary of teachers as permitted by the budget, but it is not possible to cut ourselves off in this way. You blame me - I have heard it in the media several times - that the budget contains an increase of 6,000 civil servants. Did you see who it was? That they're 90 percent or maybe 85 percent of the teachers? And then they're cops and soldiers? That this has something to do with regional education reform? That we're not hiring any extra officials? That all the years you've been blaming me for the rise of officials every year, and I've had these pies where it was clearly said, what do they consist of, they're mostly teachers? You're just - you're talking the way you need it right now. [[15.20 hours]] And here I am openly saying that this proposal is irresponsible and would mean that it would help teachers, but in the finals, teachers would also pay you back because they would raise their salaries, but everything else that the Ministry of Education gets on other important programmes related to reform and related to the aid of education would basically be cut off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u31	Mr Jiří Bláha extended his apology within 15 hours for work reasons. I have three factual points here. First Vice-President Pikal, Mr Ferjenčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I apologize to the House for my appearance - I should have been paired up - so it is not exactly what I would have imagined. Anyway, get to the point. Madam Secretary, through Mr President, the graph you are showing here, so I would just like to point out that this is one example of those manipulative graphs, how graphs should not be made. The graph is severed, starting at $20,000, so it's obviously confusing how exponential and large the increase is. The second point is that you say you're going to put it on the network at the end of the meeting, so let me point out that this meeting ends at 14 pm on Friday at the earliest, so just what's your posting plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u33	Mr Ferjenčík, Mr Holomčík will be prepared, factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, I would like to respond to the Minister. Unfortunately, this is the typical manipulative procedure that you choose whenever you want to reject something useful. Now you are using the numbers first of the parliamentary proposal, although there is a general consensus among the supporters of this proposal on the Senate version, which is slightly cheaper. First of all. Secondly, you're comparing 2023, which means you're skipping next year, and you're actually pretending that if this law hadn't been passed, teachers' salaries would be frozen for the next two years, which is just not true, not even your own statement. And I find it extremely unfair. Instead of actually arguing a real increase over what the government is up to, you're making up a housenumer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u35	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Holomčík. [[The MP's making his way to the O.R.]] He made it, well done, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I can't do this, but the secretary here said in a moment or a short time that she would publish the impact of coalition programs on cuts. I'm watching the Prime Minister express himself, who basically - I'm sorry, I'm a little windy, I ran - who basically resigned to any subject other than the pirát. So have a number of other teammates. I was going to ask, "Will you have a program of your own?" Or are we just looking at four months of dung-pumping around? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u37	The Minister wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u38	We, Mr. MP, are dealing with vaccinations instead of programmes, we are discussing the return of children to schools, we are discussing it so that citizens can go on vacation to set all these conditions - that is our job. And that's much, much more important to us than running the campaign. When the time comes, maybe in September -- maybe, we'll launch a campaign. We're not thinking about that right now. We are thinking of stabilizing the situation after the most severe crisis since the 1930s. And as far as the program goes, I'm counting it, I'm reading it, I'm thinking, maybe something will interest me. So far I can see just, I'm making a spreadsheet, and as I'm going to have it calculated, so to stand up for it, and believe me, I'm standing up for it, and on behalf of the government, I've put up seven budgets, and now I'm working on the eighth, so I dare say I know something about it, with all humility. And I'm basically doing it to present it with knowledge, and I'm gonna help myself with the words of a classic from my beloved movie Vesničko my centerpiece - if I'm not mistaken, but maybe I'm wrong, the amazing movies... As the doctor says to the citizen, I say, so the voter knows what he's getting into. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u39	Thank you. Mr Jurečka's point of fact, then Mr Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u40	Good afternoon, Mr President. I wouldn't be performing if I didn't hear the Vice Prime Minister here. So I will allow you to interpret the small sighs of many citizens, which I have registered in person, but also in the post office. When our former citizens, who are needed abroad in the long term, travel back to the Czech Republic to visit parents, grandparents, I cannot explain to them why, if they are vaccinated with Pfizer in the United States of America or in other countries outside the territory of the European Union, why can't you recognise them? Why are you chasing them every week for tests? If you, Vice Prime Minister, as you said, how do you handle all this, maybe solve this little detail? It may be under the discernment of the government, but these people are already turning to you - it's not a matter of the last few days, it's been a matter for weeks, and your government still can't figure it out. So maybe if you could sort this out, it'd be nice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u41	Thank you. Mr. Congressman Navrkal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u42	Hello, thank you for your word. Well, Madam Secretary, if you're dealing with all sorts of things about the covid and you're not dealing with the program, then I don't understand why we're in this as one of the worst in Europe as far as the case is concerned, according to various statistics, if not the very worst, if we don't count Russia in Europe. And otherwise, I would just point out that I've already been pissed off by constant lying to government members because, for example, just when you mentioned the state budget - I remember last year we approved an amendment to this year's state budget and through yours, Minister Benešová here promised to set aside the means to stop illegal executions for the courts, and then somehow the deed ran away. And that is really just one of the many, many inexhaustible amounts of lies and manipulations that this government is committing. So my point is that I'm not surprised by your highs here, and I hope that after this election, we'll get rid of all this and rule this government, whose members aren't so terribly lying and manipulating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u43	Surprisingly, no more factual point, so Mr Baxa is in the debate. Mr Jelínek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u44	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, Vice Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a statement on behalf of the COO coalition on the proposal that is the subject of the vote here today, that is, the so-called Senate vomit that addresses the amendment to the Education Worker Act. I do not intend to respond in my speech to all that has been said in advance, but I am not going to forgive myself for one comment. When Vice Prime Minister Schillerová said that instead of preparing the programme for the upcoming parliamentary elections, the government addresses, among other things, the return of children to schools, we have to bitterly note that the solution to the children's return to schools in the Prime Minister's idea, its and other members of the government ended up being closed at home at least the longest in Europe, and that instead of presenting teaching, they were almost the longest in Europe being exposed to distance teaching, which no doubt did not contribute to the Czech education moving forward. [[15.30 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Coronavirus pandemic has revealed a number of problems in Czech education that require some longer-term solutions, and however many reservations can be made about the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers, so it should be said that this amendment, in a form supported by Members of the SPOLU coalition, gives an answer or gives tools to address some of these problems in order to improve the situation in Czech schools. And I think it's fair to remind these things, even at the beginning of this amendment, there was a government bill. So I would just like to recapitulate in a positive sense what the amendment in the version that came back from the Senate, or in fact approved by the Chamber of Deputies, contains and what - if it is true that the government coalition wants to throw this original government proposal overboard - we will miss what will not happen. This amendment contains a very important provision which allows the Czech schools to work, say in the quotation marks of new pedagogical workers, meaning the systemic classification of some support pedagogical professions, which are very lacking in Czech schools: school logo, social pedagogue, school special teacher or school psychologist. When we talk about the large problems of school education being inequality in education, the different opportunities for children from socially disabled families to engage actively in education, the answer to these problems is that teachers in Czech schools should be able to provide targeted support from these special professions, which can work in Czech schools, however, always on the basis of some ad hoc measures, provisions, templates, when money is available, so it is possible to employ these workers. If they're not, then suddenly the schools can't ask for their help anymore. It is precisely what has passed through the amendments that would allow Czech teachers a significantly better opportunity to educate children from families with some social disability and reduce differences in Czech education. So let's say, if you government MPs drop this law, then the possibility of systemic anchoring these new types of teaching staff will disappear: speech, social educator, school educator and others who would be very helpful. Another thing that this law - and what was actually its essence - contains is the opening of the teaching profession to people who do not have classical pedagogical education at the faculties preparing teachers. There's been a lot of discussion about this, and I've been doing this in the various stages of this law. It is a fact that a part of the professional teaching public opposes this provision, and undoubtedly the arguments raised against this provision merit attention and hearing. On the other hand, when we talk about the fact that in the Czech Republic, and I am going back to the inequalities in education, one of the problems is that there is a shortage of teachers in some regions or people who do not have adequate education in the long term in schools, and on the other hand, we are talking about the fact that there are people who have a Master's degree or a higher education, although not a teacher's, but want to teach, so this provision simply connects these two paths and gives some opportunity to improve this situation. It is certainly up to us to discuss whether this should be permanent, but in any case, we say: if you, the Government Members, drop this bill, that the solution to this issue is being postponed for some other time. I firmly believe that when the election of the coalition wins, we will certainly take this thing better than it is currently happening. I would also like to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this law includes a so-called adaptation period and highlights the role of the teacher. It looks very abstract at first sight or perhaps not completely understandable, but hides behind it the solution of one of the very important pains of Czech education. Teachers, beginners who come to school, have often had a very demanding professional study, but they come across reality, the practice of what it means to stand before pupils, to deal with everything that teaching brings both professionally and pedagogically, and they need some help and support. This so-called adaptation period and the role of teacher in this law actually means absolutely specific assistance and support to beginners, because the reason why new teachers or beginners leave schools is not only lower salaries, but it is also that they do not have sufficient support to start their pedagogical careers. And if we are talking about a two-year adaptation period, the role of stating teachers, including the fact that teachers should be entitled to a bonus, then maybe in the debates of tens of billions, this might fit in, but believe me, in the context of every school where new teachers come in, this is a very important provision and a great help to keep teachers in education. And this amendment also addresses a matter or a question of class teachers, which, as Minister Plaga has already said, can also be dealt with in another way, but if the status of a teacher is directly enshrined in the law on teaching workers, this means again some very specific hand given to class teachers who have a lot of work, a lot of responsibilities, but so far their position in the school law has not been directly established, and here is a way of helping them. So these are just some selected parts, selected measures, which can help Czech teachers and education in schools themselves in particular in individual cases and which, if you, dear government MPs, drop this law, will simply not be able to operate in Czech schools in a relatively short period of time. And now to the provision of 130 percent of the teacher's salary. I would just recall an open letter sent to Prime Minister Babiš by an important teaching association, a teaching platform that is simply called Don't turn your back on teachers, we need to address their critical lack in schools, increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession, attract professionals from practice. I would also like to draw attention to another press release which already concerns the statements made by Minister Schillerová, who, in my view, completely unacceptablely opposes the various groups of employees who are paid from the state budget, in this case the teacher and, on the other hand, the Minister, in my view, pointlessly claims that increasing the salaries of teachers will mean a reduction in the salaries of firefighters and police officers. Ladies and gentlemen, I, as mayor of Plzeň, experienced the year of the coronavirus pandemic. On this occasion, I would like to thank teachers, but also firefighters and police officers who have helped in various places and in different ways, and I consider it really shameless when Vice Prime Minister Schillerová opposes these professions, and one of them talks about increasing the salaries of the other. Madam Vice Prime Minister, I think that if you're talking about apologies here, you should apologize to those firemen and police officers you're scaring by raising teachers' salaries will be reduced. There are no doubt that there are substantially other chapters in the state budget that could be cut without prejudice to the salaries of these important civil servants. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems of teachers' salaries, and there is no doubt that there has been a significant increase in recent years, is not only in the absolute amount and, of course, and only here I turn, it is not true that every Czech teacher has the 44,000 crowns of the average salary that the Minister has mentioned. Perhaps, Madam Secretary, it would be a good idea to go to a school and ask those teachers, such as the early ones who have those salaries, and I think they'd be very surprised if you told them to have a gross salary of 44,000 crowns on their payroll, just like you said. [[Secretary Schiller, forty-six!]] Forty-six. [[15.40 hours]] The problem is that the average salaries of Czech teachers - and this is the long-term problem of Czech education - are lagging behind compared to other groups of higher education workers. In fact, we are in one of the last groups within the OECD countries - when you compare the average salaries of teachers and what the average salary of employees with higher education is, the difference is somewhere between 70 and 75 percent. And no doubt this proposal, which we are discussing right now, that is, the 130 percent average wage, would, I would stress, gradually help to make up for that difference. If we are talking about who we really want to support, what the proposal is for 130 percent of the salary, we are not talking about a few thousand teachers here, as one of my previous speakers said, but they are actually more than 150,000 employees of regional education, a very large group of employees who are being paid from the state budget. But above all, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about those who take care of all the children in our country, where there is compulsory schooling. It's just that teachers educate millions and millions of our children in compulsory schooling, so we're talking about us wanting to support people who have a crucial role to play in what the education system in our country looks like in this case, with this proposal of 130 percent of the average wage in some time. To conclude, if anyone is talking about what is a government priority or whether education is a government priority, then now, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity to make this clear on this particular bill, dear colleagues from government parties, from YES, KSČM, from social democracy. Here, show if you really consider education to be your priority, whether the measures that I have mentioned and the incorporation of 130 percent of the teacher's average salary are a sign that education in the Czech Republic is as important to you as those of us from the coalition - in this case, the coalition of the SOLU - who support this proposal, we will vote for it because we believe that education is a guarantee of the future prosperity of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u45	Good afternoon again, honourable Members. That was Mr. Baxa with his speech. Mr Pavel Jelínek, who is duly enrolled in the debate, will now take the floor, so far the last one entered in the debate at the third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u46	Thank you for the floor. It's just a short one. On the agenda we have a refund from the Senate of the Government Bill on Educational Workers. The SPD has education as one of the main priorities of the electoral programme. Increasing the prestige of the teaching profession is important and necessary due to the development of the situation in society. Both senate and government, the bill meets this condition. We are also responsible for the systemically including other support pedagogical professions such as teaching assistant, psychologist, logoped, special educators and so on. Furthermore, the addition of the remuneration of class teachers and the introduction of the teaching teacher's function and adaptation period is very important for Czech education, because Czech education needs stability in particular. Not constant legislative shifts, other constant wage-lifting promises. I was talking to a teacher the other day, and she said, "If we got everything we were promised, we'd have very large salaries, but nothing on that tape ever showed up. Of course, there was an increase in personnel costs, but we must not confuse that with what the teacher will see on the payroll. It's not the same thing. The SPD will support both the Senate proposal, although it is not customary for us, but there are really some things that specify both these complementary pedagogical professions as well as those tariffs and the like. For me personally: I very much said I would not be upset, but it bothers me that, given that this is a government proposal, the means for its implementation should be secured sufficiently in advance, and such measures that, because of the fact that this law passes, it simply freezes the salaries of firefighters and other important professions that have been through the coronavirus crisis, it seems very unfair to me. So we, for the SPD, will support both the Senate proposal and the possible vote on the government proposal as proposed by the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u47	I thank Mr Pavel Jelínek. That was the last one entered into the debate. I see Senator Drahoš reporting first, then I see a colleague of Ferjenčík. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made a few comments here, at least on the factual part of the debate that has been raised here. I must admit that - and I will now leave aside a comment on the way in which the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers is being negotiated, I would return to that when it comes to the conclusion - but I listened to the Minister of Finance, Madam Vice Prime Minister, and I must say that I strongly disagree with her arguments. Of course, the fact that this government has begun to raise and raise teacher's salaries is very good. The graphs, the slopes of the curves and so on, that's a thing that can be very well adjusted in the form of such a graph. Of course, we all know that raising teacher's salaries is just catching up on debts that have been caused, yes, by previous governments. If we really want our children to be educated only by the best, then we must provide them with adequate funding and thus ensure that they do not leave school just because they earn more elsewhere. Yes, teachers' salaries, as has fallen here, have been rising at a rather high rate, but let's say they have grown from a very low base. So this seemingly rapid increase was necessary by balancing the competitiveness of the teacher's salaries. The starting salary of the teacher today is CZK 30,000 plus, CZK 32,000, and it is about the average salary of the university graduate. There's already been a number 44 or 45,000...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u49	Senator, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for peace. Please, the word has been given to Senator Jiří Drahoš, who is the rapporteur of the Senate for this press returned to the Chamber of Deputies. Then let him speak in a dignified environment, or I'll call a break. Don't make me name an individual colleague, even in front of the speaker's desk. Just a moment, Senator. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u50	Yes, yes. Thank you, Mr President. I started to talk about the number that is often tilted here - 44 or 45,000 gross - as the average salary of a teacher. But I do know from field consultations that even a teacher or often a teacher who has 25 years of practice will not reach this amount. The average salary of a teacher is not only the salary of teachers, directors. This often includes other salaries or salaries of other school officials who have relatively higher salaries. But the average teacher's salary also includes personal bonuses, rewards, and you, believe me, don't all receive by far, and certainly not all in the same amount. [[15.50 hours]] Only what was said here by Professor Rais. I completely agree that teachers' salaries in primary schools and secondary schools are approaching, for example, the salaries of masters and assistants in universities. I'm a college professor, and I'm aware of the problem. But I don't see it as a problem. I say thank God that teachers' salaries in secondary and primary schools are rising, and, of course, let's also do something to make college teachers, especially the younger ones after grad school and third grade, have those salaries. So it's not an argument for me not to consider continuing to raise teachers' salaries. There was also a note that not all teachers are of equal quality. Of course, like everyone else in other professions, they can't be the coolest, so can teachers in regional education, but undoubtedly this also applies to teachers in higher education. I believe that many of you, and I can confirm it for myself, have experienced teachers who have been dissuading us from an object - now I am talking about a university - or rather from his studies. And here I have added or copied a quote from the press release from the already quoted teaching platforms: Yes, the Czech state, Czech schools suffer from a critical shortage of teachers, but we will not bring teachers from Ukraine or Mongolia in this case, they will not help us. So let's not forget that the teaching profession is very, very different from others that can be replaced by somebody else's labor force. Thank you for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u51	I thank Senator Drahoš. Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now appear in the debate. [[There's noise in the room.]] And again, before I give him my word, I'm going to ask the House for peace so I don't have to interrupt him. Please, if you are discussing a subject other than the amendment to the Education Worker Act, it is essential in the foyer. Just a minute. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u52	Thank you, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by expressing some of the untruths that have been made about this press. So, first of all, this proposal states that in an above-the-tarif, that means in those optional rewards, one-sixth of the means to pay. So it's not true that, as a result of this law, the director would become just some observer who sees how much his employees are getting money, and there's nothing he can do about it. On the contrary, one-sixth of the funds will be in the above. So my colleague Rais here hasn't exactly made his point. Furthermore, it is not true that this proposal would lead to an increase of 18 percent in teacher salaries. Today, teachers have some 127 percent of the average wage, at least if the finance secretary's figures are true, so this proposal is not really about increasing the expenditure, but about guaranteeing the growth of these expenditures in the future, which we think is much more important, because it is crucial in terms of the quality of this proposal that the teaching profession will have guaranteed this average salary, at least 130 percent of the average salary in the whole economy, which will lead to better applicants reporting for this job, and at the same time the proposal opens up training to other practitioners. After all, this is one of the reasons why this proposal is also supported by the Chamber of Commerce, which has sent a request to all Members' clubs to support this proposal. So it's definitely not like it's some kind of proposal that opens scissors between the public and the private sectors. It has the support of both the education unions and the Chamber of Commerce. Once again, the fundamental arguments why to support this proposal. This proposal will indeed ensure that our education has a long-term perspective, will cease to be a hit man in the state budget and will have guaranteed money. At the same time, this proposal opens education to university-educated practitioners. We believe that this will be very helpful. I would like to appeal, first and foremost, to the social democracy that has contributed to this, and thanks to its votes, our amendment has passed, which guarantees the teachers 130 percent of the average wage. The proposal is also - this is of course very important, but at the same time there are other good things in the law, and it would be a shame if due to some turnover of social democracy, which I hope will not happen, both parts of the law fell under the table, both the increase and, above all, the guarantee of salaries for the future, as well as other necessary changes, such as for guidance teachers. So I would really like to appeal to social democracy to honor its vote on the amendment, as well as on the bill as a whole, when we voted on it in January. I would like to appeal to the members of the ANO movement to maintain their initially positive position, and given that I consider it extremely unfortunate that it was only yesterday that our parliamentary club learned that there had been a pairing agreement and that some of our Members could not be here for health reasons, so I propose a suspension of this item until Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u53	Am I to see this as a procedural proposal? Okay. So, given that a procedural proposal has been made, I will engage in bringing back those whom I have recommended that they conduct discussions on other topics in the foyer. I'll check you out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And about the motion to interrupt this point by Friday... I don't know what hour, but we'll just leave it for Friday, I think it's a time period that can be taken. I can't make a point of fact. All right. In the vote number 386, after I have checked you out and asked for a new registration, we will decide to suspend this item by Friday, that is 18 June. I've started voting 386 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 386, from the present 164 for 72, against 15. The motion was denied. Let's keep going. If no one reports, I will conclude the debate at the third reading. We will take the vote. I'll ask for the final words. Minister Plaga is not interested. The rapporteur, the senator? Yes, he's interested in the final word. Then with priority rights... I have called for final words, Mr President. Please, Senator. Then I will give you my word, right after the final word of Senator Jiří Drahoš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u54	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use my final word and briefly comment - and allow me - on the way in which this amendment to the law on teaching workers was discussed in the House as a Senate return. Many times there have fallen facts which I do not want to repeat, facts such as how it was voted before this law was passed to the Senate and so on, but in any case I have been coming here for almost three months and I consider this discussion to be very unusual in the so-called Senate vomit, as I see historically, and the way in which the government coalition has taken a stand for the bill which it originally voted for is quite incomprehensible. I've been looking at three months of delays and a search for different procedural loopholes with one purpose: not to approve the law as a Senate vomit, nor as the House's originally passed law. This is how it works again today. I know a rule called pairing. We don't use it in the Senate, even during the pandemic, we weren't in any reduced cast, but today, again, the pairing here with you, from my point of view, has failed. I ask myself a question with a look at the government Members, who are actually worth taking out the amendment of the law in this way. I have appreciated a number of important points with the Members and Members of Social Democracy who brought in the government proposal, the one that finally landed in the Senate. I will not list them here, we know what they are, and now I am surprised that Members and Members of Social Democracy are voting or going to vote against both the Senate's return and the original proposal. I must confess that I do not understand this precisely because I appreciated the inputs - I do not now name whom - in general social democracy, and not only in a government proposal, so I do not understand it there. To some extent, I understand the Minister, who here says something about finances, lack of money and so on. On the other hand, you know, I'm neither the opposition senator nor any coalition senator, I'm a lifelong non-scorer, and I can assure you that I'll remain a non-scorer. And when I look at the situation of arguments in such a case as the amendment of the law on teaching workers and the addition of teachers, they can be used, so I shake my head very much about it. I've already talked about these--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u55	I will interrupt you once more, Senator. I'll ask the House for peace! I think we are before the vote, although I am registering the application of the President of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, but nevertheless, the word has been given to Senator Drahoš for final words. We are just before the vote, and I will ask the House once more for peace! Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u56	Thank you, Mr President. So on the position of the Ministry of Finance: I also have to agree that there are totally unfairly opposed to certain groups of civil servants or public sector employees. There's no way I like it. As a senator - when we were discussing the tax package in the Senate, it went through the way that it costs about CZK 100 billion to the minus. Here we are talking about - I do not want to say - a few billions, but it is still a negligible amount compared to the total debt or deficit of the state budget, and I would really like to conclude by calling at least on Members of Social Democracy to support in this case what they originally came up with, and either a Senate refund - I would like to be - or at least support the original House version. I'd really appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u57	Thank you to Senator Jiří Drahoš. Before I give the floor with priority rights to the chairman of the Pirates club, Jakub Michálek, I note that the apology of the Foreign Minister Jakub Kulhánek's apology has been cancelled. He's here with us. Then we have an apology from Mr Stanislav Grospič for personal reasons. Now, President Jakub Michálek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given the unfortunate situation, that pairing was abolished just before this crucial and very close vote on the proposal already approved by the Chamber of Deputies - and it is a matter that is followed by 180,000 teachers, who are of course interested in whether they will have a long-term guarantee and prospects for wage growth - I would like to ask for an hour's pause at the Pirates' meeting. In order not to be accused of not discussing the law on lobbying, which, on the contrary, is our priority and which Mr Faltýnek has very cleverly placed, I will suggest, once the Chamber of Deputies is remiss, the appropriate priority of the item on lobbying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u59	I hope that's classified. President Válek, then President Faltýnek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u60	Thank you, Mr President. The situation is complex and inconspicuous. On behalf of Club TOP 09, I would like to request a break two hours after the end of the Pirate Club break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u61	Now, Mr. Faltýnek. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall, Members are getting up from their seats.]] I haven't interrupted the meeting yet. I respect the proposals of Members' Club Chairs, I respect the Rules of Procedure, § 54 para. 90, but I have to give the floor to those who have claimed priority rights. President Faltýnek, then Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Only a short response, a reply to the esteemed colleague, President Michálek. Mr President, I have told you at least 20 times today through Mr President. We've never paired at senate gates, never. And for announcing it yesterday morning through Mrs Pastuchová, not today before the vote, and for apologizing to you both at the grémia meeting for announcing it yesterday morning, and to President Farský, I apologized for that at the grémia meeting, so we never really paired up when it comes to Senate vomit. As far as the other days of the hearing are concerned, yes. I'm sorry again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u63	Even President Farský has signed up with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Given the breaks that have been taken, I don't have to take a break for our club anymore because we're gonna use the part of the break that TOP 09 took. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u65	I'm gonna call a recess for the club meeting. Once again, the application by President Jakub Michálek. Before I announce my break, we're not gonna make any decisions about anything anymore, I say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Just to make it right, I actually checked: we got the information about the cancellation of the pairing at 21.10 last night, so really at the last minute. If we have one Member on a foreign trip, two Members ill, it really is not a matter that we can deal with at the last minute. So it wasn't afternoon, it was 9:10 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-15-ps2017-104-07-002-009.u67	I am interrupting the House of Deputies until 9 a.m. tomorrow. We will continue tomorrow, because it is Wednesday morning, third readings, namely point 333, children's groups, 348, law on electronic communications, and 334, supported sources of energy, and other points in third reading. Have a good afternoon and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow.
