ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u1	335. Mr Dolínek's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended (the House Print 374/ - third reading) We launched this item on Wednesday 24 March at the 87th meeting and the item was interrupted in the debate. Mr Petr Dolínek has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the economic committee, is Mr Jan Bauer. Is the rapporteur here? If necessary, I will ask someone else from the Economic Committee to take up the role of rapporteur - 24 to be replaced or represented by Mr Kolovratník, and he is here, very well. I recall that the amendments are in the Houses of Press 374/6, which was delivered on 22 January, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as a press 374/7. I am opening a suspended debate and, according to the record, Mr Martínek is registered at this moment. Just a second, Mrs Langšádlová spoke at that moment, so, of course, I will oblige you, Mrs Langshadl. Please come, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for your helpfulness, I have really been interrupted in discussing this point, and I would like to add a few more words to the amendments tabled. Certainly the biggest discussion between the members of both the Economic Committee and here at the Chamber of Deputies raised the question of whether a distance of 1.5 metres should be observed when overtaking a cyclist. Colleagues, my previous speakers here have spoken and read the legislation that is adopted in other countries, particularly the European Union, and we have seen that although there are quite a number of reservations against this regulation in our country, especially in terms of operators and public transport operators, in some situations this legislation may indeed seem problematic and difficult to enforce, and I, too, at the outset, have been reluctant to this legislation, so after long discussions with many cyclists and groups representing these candidates, we have decided to support this proposal together with our fellow Members. I know it is very difficult to enforce this, but I still think that this legislation will lead motorists to behave more responsibly, to simply be more cautious in overtaking cyclists and to be aware that there really must be sufficient distance, so that cyclists who are the more vulnerable in the situation, who are sometimes vulnerable to a greater sense of security. We know that in some states it is not only covered by distance, but by speed adjustment. This may also be one of the solutions, but I think that for this situation in which we are, it is probably better to choose the distance distance, and hopefully it will lead to a greater sense of security, more responsible behaviour by motorists, and hence a smaller number of collisions and accidents, although I am also aware that the enforcement is very limited. And as I said before, there are many situations in our lives that we wouldn't have to adjust to any legal norm at all. There are many situations, and there are many things that we can actually adjust only by simple mutual consideration and non-conflict behavior. Here, the legislation is one of them, but with regret - the experience of cyclists, the experience of those who move, those who feel vulnerable - given the amount of collisions, I think it is only appropriate to adopt such legislation. I'm sure there are a number of other proposals that should be adapted. I regret to say that we will not support all of Mr Jurečka's proposals, although I know that they have been put forward in good faith, and we will also abstain from voting on Mr Kohoutek's proposal, when it proposes provisions for the competent authority to increase the maximum speed in motorway tunnels up to 110 kilometres per hour as part of local traffic regulation. It is also a very controversial reduction in the penalty rate for the absence of medical examinations in the elderly, although I know that this issue is also very sensitive, but I think that we should set the system in such a way as to achieve that goal, and that is the highest possible level of security on our communications. As far as the speed increase in motorway tunnels is concerned, we know that highway tunnels are among the risky places in terms of traffic accidents, in terms of accidents in these sections, and therefore we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u3	Thank you. I have some factual points here. Before I give my colleagues the floor, under Rule 19 of the Rules of Procedure, I am giving order measures to remind Mr Volný and Mr Bojka, who are once again violating the measures by not having their mouths and noses covered. First Mrs Válková, factual point, then Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u4	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am satisfied with the two minutes. I would just like to add, perhaps, to Mrs Langšádlová's previous speaker. She's not that small of an enforcer. Mr Dolínek also spoke of this. So I am clearly one of the supporters of those who are going to be here today - and we are also divided here in our club I would say half-and-half, maybe I'm being optimistic or pessimistic, but they're handling it all abroad, so there's no need for any special technical equipment. First of all. Secondly, I don't think we should underestimate the element educational at all. [[9.30 hours]] Third, even I am angry, I use this folk expression deliberately when I visit a cyclist in Prague, yesterday it just happened to me in the evening. I have to say, it's been pretty hard. It happens to me on weekends. So I just slow down and wait a minute, there's nothing I can do. But I think that the cyclist, even though he may be acting at times not exactly as we drivers would need, deserves us to be considerate. And I think that every step of the way, including the one that we have discussed here, and we will still be discussing when we approve the back of the Senate 624, such as therapeutic programs, are all the right steps for aggressive drivers in the direction that the Czech Republic also belongs to the West rather than to the East. So the appeal to our drivers without having it anchored in the legal order, I think it's in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u5	Thank you. Now a point of fact, Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually one of those opponents when it comes to overtaking cyclists. Please, let's keep it legal. If something is already enshrined in legislation, let us not put it there again. This situation is already being resolved. The aggressive driver is not only the driver of the motor vehicle, but also the driver of the bicycle. When I was a little kid, I was hit, but not by a car, but by a cyclist who was aggressive and drove into a playground. Please, it's not balanced. For me, these obligations need to be set in a balanced manner. We still have walkers here. I think they are significantly more vulnerable road users than cyclists. It's mostly something that can be dealt with. Yes, I, as my colleague, Válková, tried to overtake the cyclists just this weekend. I had a problem. They drove next to each other and took the whole way. I basically couldn't get past them because they wouldn't let me. So who was aggressive at the time? Me or those bikers who didn't follow the road rules and were supposed to follow? Please, if anyone's stupid, it doesn't matter what they drive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u7	A real point, Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u8	Thank you for the floor. I have already said here that I really consider our colleague Mrs Ožanová to be one of the greatest transport experts sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies, and he has this respect among us and on the Economic Committee. But when she said that it is possible to deal with it today, if that were the case, the legislation today, we are not standing here today with this proposal. If our cyclists felt safe, if, as much as my colleague did in her practice, the existing legislation was correctly applied, we are not standing here today. And when it was said that next to an aggressive driver, the bike driver or the bike driver might be aggressive, the pedestrian might be aggressive, that's true. But we have to look at what this man controls appropriately at the time. Of course, when we have an aggressive driver with a car, he can do much more damage than an aggressive driver on a bicycle or pedestrian on the road. So I guess we all know he could be an aggressive walker, a cyclist, and a car driver. But I'm sure we all also see that the one who drives the car, or even some stronger car or truck, so if he acts aggressively, he can do a lot more damage. We all know there's some legislation here, but once again, if the legislation was applied enough, it was respected, no one is standing here today with this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u9	A point of fact, Mr. Čižinský. Mrs Ožanová is then reporting from the point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to intercede so that we do not always take a particular example and illustrate something general about it. I think what's going on in this particular case is a distance of 1.5 meters, so it really gets to every driver's head that he has to pass the cyclist with a safe distance. And that's what it is. It's nothing more than that when a driver overtakes a cyclist to have in his head: Attention, 1.5 meters, I have to turn out so that the cyclist can handle it and not be threatened, even if he might avoid some hole in the road.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u11	Thank you. A real point, Mrs. Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u12	Thank you for the floor. Basically, I agree. However, I believe that road rules should not only be known to drivers of motor vehicles who have to demonstrate them during tests, but that cyclists should also know them. So I would recommend that cyclists no longer implement the things that are in the law, do not pass on bicycles, for example, over transitions and so on. Please, it's really unbalanced. You keep saying five feet away from a bike driver and a motor vehicle driver. But what about the pedestrian? What about the bike driver who's gonna drive by the pedestrians? Doesn't he have a duty? Can he drive right past that little kid? Remember, it's a measure of disproportion. There is mutual consideration in the law. We need to be considerate and disciplined so that we do not endanger our own lives, health, property, and others. Please, that's enough. It is already in practice if someone commits such a thing. This is solvable under this legislation. Why give more legislation? Really for me, colleagues and colleagues, no. And as for the rules, I'd like the cyclists to read them. It would be in their favor. When someone enters the crossing quite quickly, even the driver of a personal car does not have a chance to stop, because the crossing for pedestrians is not intended to cross for cyclists. Do you know how many cyclists call me names when I show them why they sit on that bike when they cross the crossing? They think they can do anything. It's not true. The rules apply to all road users, not just some of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u13	I have some factual points here. First, Mrs Válková, Mr Nacher will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u14	Of course, I have to respond to my colleague. I think we're already running into a certain populism here, that we always take a certain group that we're protecting. They're pedestrians, they're motorcyclists. I don't think that's the point, if we prefer the protection of cyclists, motorcyclists, pedestrians. Of course, all these groups are equal and deserve our attention, legal regulation and so on. Now we're dealing with cyclists, now this step is in favour of cyclists, in favour of their health, in favour of their safety. Let's not bring other groups into this. First of all. Let us focus, my dear colleague, Mrs Ožanová, on your way, Mr President, next time, in the next legislation or in the proposal for further legislation, on cyclists. We did it once, and we failed. That doesn't mean we should resign to what's on our desk right now. It really seems to me like the discussions when the Chamber of Deputies then elects on purpose, or those who perform here, other topics. Let's talk about the safety of cyclists. They're hundreds of thousands of people asking for this. So if we want to blow them off, please. I'm sure we'll show this in the vote. It's definitely not a pedestrian right now, it's not a car driver. They must adapt to the new rules in the proposed regulation, but it is not a draconian measure. Each of us can do it. I've been driving since I was 18 years old, and I haven't had a single major car accident, so I can handle it. And so I am clearly saying, let's raise our voice and say yes to the greater safety of cyclists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u15	Mr Nacher, then Mr Profant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I already thought we'd be getting close to the vote because the last speaking Member was a colleague of Langšádlová, and now there are five of her applications again. I don't think we're gonna be able to see it from the left, two feet to the right. Please, let's vote on this as soon as possible, because everything has been said to cyclists here. We've got a pretty important thing going on with the execution, which is going to be quite dense and long. Maybe one comment about it, and then I'll try not to report it at all. This isn't about somebody defending cyclists who are violating something. Of course, when someone breaks something, they're supposed to look at him the same way, if he's a cyclist, a car driver, or a pedestrian, the same way. This is simply - if I were to use the words of my honored colleague Zuzana Ožanová - that the obligation is already enshrined, I would make it clear that we are actually just specifying the obligation. We specify it, define something that can be visualized, even if I understand that it can't be accurately measured, but it can be visualized. I've been giving other examples here the last time there's something here, we define something in meters, and you can't count it exactly inches, and the rules work. That means, I think it's also some kind of signal to society that we're aware of. Whoever rides a bike with us drives for example in Austria, Germany, so he knows it's a little safer there, that cars treat you differently. Let's start with this with more consideration for each other, and let's put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u17	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr Profant, then Mr Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u18	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mrs Ožanová, through Mr President. The big difference is, if a cyclist breaks the rules, he gets a ticket. I will admit that I, too, have been given a fine for driving after the crossing, and in Prague I see that this is being fined. But I've never seen a ticket for dangerous overtaking a cyclist. I don't know what's going on with you in the region, you may be doing worse in traffic, but this is really where cyclists are given fines. So this thing, cyclists are being punished, while a motorist who threatens a cyclist is not normally prosecuted. And that's the problem, that's what the petitioner was dealing with, and that's why he put forward this more accurate definition, because the police are repeatedly making excuses that this hasn't been dangerous yet, and so on. Even sometimes it doesn't feel like using very bad arguments based on unsubstantiated data and so on. That is why it is necessary to clarify this obligation of drivers so that the police cannot make excuses and that, as he punishes cyclists, he punishes motorists. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u19	Mr. Výborný, factual point. Then Mr Mašek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable Minister, colleagues, colleagues, through you, to Mrs Ožanová. I would ask and have to stand up for the cyclists here: There is no way to pause, it is not possible to throw them all in one bag. Unfortunately, it is the custom of many of us politicians to take two groups best and put them against each other. Soon we'll be discussing the amendment to the order of execution, and it's very similar there. We tend to say very often: here are the debtors, here are the creditors and they are against each other and they are still throw in the bailiffs. And if you say very emotionally here: Cyclists do not follow and do not know the rules of road traffic - that is not true! You can't say that anywhere. And I think it's the cyclists, and that's what this whole debate is about, they should be the ones that we can protect with this little thing, like 1.5 meters. I think it's pointless to have another debate now, we have some really key issues here about executions, I'd like us to get to them. But please, let's not interrupt, let's not throw bikers in the same bag! Just as I know the driver of a personal car, who then drives under the influence of alcohol and does not follow the rules of road traffic, that is the case with cyclists, but that is not the point. What we are debating here is whether or not cyclists deserve adequate protection in relation to the distance of cars passing by. I'm convinced, and I've said it over and over again, I'm sure I have. That's why we'll support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u21	Mr Mašek, then Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u22	Mr President, colleagues, I will respond to several previous speakers here, but especially to Mrs Ožanová, whose expertise I appreciate, which, unlike us, has dealt with these accidents and dealt with them very often, and if she tells me that it is about the fact that this support is in the safety of cyclists and it is possible to solve it, then for me one and a half metres when it is out of context, that one and a half metres does not solve everything. If you're overtaken by a 90-mile truck at a distance of one-and-a-half meters, it'll work out with you, and it's dangerous. For me, if I pass a cyclist on a narrow road, I'll keep an eye on it, drive at a speed of plus five kilometers, unlike him, and miss him slowly, I think I'll do nothing wrong, and I'll stay safe. So the 1.5 meter parameter is the parameter that we're dealing with here, if we're fighting for the safety of the cyclists. If we were to fight aggressive drivers comprehensively, and considerateness is not in my view in that 1.5 meter, but it is up to each of us how we behave on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u23	Thank you. Mr Plzák, a point of fact. Mr Dolínek then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going to respond to a colleague of the Výborný. He said he was convinced that all cyclists knew the traffic regulations well. Mr colleague, through Mr President, since when are children allowed on the road? And you're convinced that all the kids who can already ride the road since they were 13 years old are, I'm not quite sure they know traffic regulations? I don't think so. And then I'll just tell you one personal experience that I'm curious if it's strictly consistent with what happens. I was driving on the former Lenin, now I mean evropský or whatever the name of the road to the airport, and there the original two lanes, which were so, narrowed down by a lane of cyclists. There are two lanes left where two trucks can barely fit together. So I have this feeling that if a cyclist goes there, he's gonna make it impossible to overtake the whole time if cars ride in both lanes. I don't think it's gonna work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u25	Thank you. Mr Dolínek's point of fact, then Mrs Válková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u26	Thank you. I was precisely afraid that it would slip into this discussion, because now we're going to start blaming that there are some bi-fascists and anti-cyclists and the like, and it's actually going to go away from the substance. I would like to respond to Mr, not to the speaker, but to one previous speaker, through the President: it is a bit misleading. I understand Mrs. Ožanová, but what she says is not entirely true. Not that what he's saying isn't true, but how it's interpreted. I understand what he's saying, but the interpretation, the generalization, is not appropriate. I'm just putting in an adjustment - and I'm going to repeat what I said last time - which is true in states like Spain, France, Germany and others. That's not the news we'd make up on our knees here. It is a classic legislation operating in other European Union countries plus in some states - in the United States, but I wouldn't compare it there, they have a slightly different transport system and how it works there. But it's a classic thing. As I was saying here, the police in these states do not have specific technical means, it follows from the reports they gave me Police presidium through the director of the transport police, and yet they are able to enforce this. And on one thing about the stripes mentioned by the European Class in Prague and so on, but there is also ignorance among drivers. The stripe isn't the wall, it's not the orange stripe. It's just a marked lane for a cyclist, where a motorist can normally drive in a car. It's not something that's specifically for cyclists. This is indicated because when a cyclist goes there, he takes precedence in his lane at the moment. But a normal motorist can normally drive there if a cyclist doesn't exist. That's the first thing. The second thing, and it is already, Mrs. Ožanová, from experience from Ostrava and elsewhere, the traffic police will not allow any marks for cyclists on roads where this does not comply with the standards. [[unintelligible]] He can't deliberately paint a stripe because he wants it. Everything here is subject to relatively difficult approval. But let's get out of here. It's just really a gesture to make everyone feel safe. And as I said before, the number of cyclists is increasing in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u27	Your time. Thank you. Mrs Válková, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u28	Fortunately, I can be shorter because my colleague, Mr Dolínek, here, has said the essential thing through you, Mr President. Legislation elsewhere, mostly west of our borders or south, works. You certainly don't hear arguments like that. I think it's a mosaic that if we add to it in the Czech Republic, there'll be more legal certainty. And what Mrs Ožanová is talking about is what I know as an expert in law, criminal law and justice and partly administrative law. Of course, when we compose and interpret and come across an excellent policeman, a very good possible prosecutor, and if everything succeeds, if there was an injury to the cyclist just in overtaking, even a judge, then it can be proven better and such a person can end up where he should end up. That's what I'm saying. I hope there won't be that many. But it's the same as anywhere else. Example one for all. When we did not have dangerous persecution and had three other facts, it also gave us more work. Now the policeman sees it. If we approve this amendment, it will also be clear. I'm in favour of clear, understandable, transparent, safe rules, and we don't have that kind of legislation right now. Now it requires, as I say, very erudized and trained all participants involved in road traffic, even those who then investigate a possible accident. That should be eliminated by the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u29	Thank you. I'll read some of the excuses that came. Minister Petr Arenberger apologizes for today's meeting for work reasons, Minister Maláčová for the morning meeting for work reasons, Minister Lubomír Metnar for work reasons and Minister Robert Plaga for work reasons too. This dealt with the factual points and the priority right was signed by President Válek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u30	I'll try to be brief. Thank you, Mr President. I totally understand the discussion that has different opinions. I believe that any participant in traffic may be aggressive. After all, we have aggressive Members here, and basically we have not been able to deal with this, even if the entire Chamber of Deputies was looking for solutions - we have failed as a whole. And it turns out that we lack a rule on how to solve this situation systemically, and I think it's a similar situation in the case of cyclists. We're proposing now, or we have a new rule here. That rule also seems reasonable to me as a driver, although, of course, when I drive a car, I sincerely resent all cyclists. It also seems reasonable to me as a cyclist, although, of course, when I ride a bike, I sincerely resent all drivers of cars and trucks and all means of transport. And it seems reasonable to me, after all, as pedestrians, even as pedestrians, both cyclists and others both annoy me. It simply clearly defines that a cyclist should be circled at a sufficient distance, if possible. Of course at the first moment I had the same feelings and the same objections as: who will measure it, how will measure it, will I put a stick out of the car window? Then I realized how I always get a ticket for not meeting a safe distance when I bumped into someone from behind, and no one asked me how far away I was from that car. When I get a skid on a frozen road, I never adjusted the speed of driving the road, even if the car was worth it, I didn't adjust the speed of driving. So for that reason, I don't think a distance of 1.5 meters, and the debate, if that's enough, isn't enough, is a good debate, because this parameter is common in a number of countries in the law. And then I realized the last thing. By the time I wasn't overweight and I was riding a bike, every time someone was passing me at a speed that was just a little bit higher than 10 kilometers per hour, that air vortex was a problem for me. That's why I find the 5 feet very pleasant. I've never been scared as a driver when I was driving by a cyclist. I was always more worried as a cyclist when the driver was driving by. And the goal should be to protect those who are at risk, not those who threaten them. This is fulfilled in this case by this proposal. And the last point I'd ever take. Let's remember how long we've been here debating what to do with the trucks on the highways, how we've been making up different rules. What have we achieved? Nothing! In the end, the debate didn't go anywhere, and we didn't do anything meaningful. Now let's try something meaningful to do. And for our club, I can say that we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u31	Thank you. Mr Martínek is signed up for the debate, Mr Profant will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, very briefly. I am a cyclist and driver of a motor vehicle, so I think I can look at it a little bit more objectively from the point of view that I have a personal experience when I was 18 years old in Zandov, Českolipsko, hit by a truck just as I was riding a bike. I understand it's a sensitive thing. Just contact with the handlebars is not a problem at some short distance. On the other hand, I'm a little concerned that we should not accept some technocratism here in the sense that we all certainly want all traffic participants to act safely, which also requires existing legislation, as it actually falls within the framework of the debate. If a cyclist drives by the middle line, it will be very difficult to pass him legally on some roads, even on some wide roads when we take the size of a car and the width of some roads. There are many narrow roads in the Liberec Region, often in climbing hills, where this amendment will indirectly threaten the driver of motor vehicles by having to hit the opposite direction significantly, thus increasing the risk of a frontal collision with an anti-driving car, even in the view that they will not be able to accurately estimate that 1.5 metres, and even at low speed and very narrow roads, as it falls here, could actually occur some fatal frontal collision. In such sections, it may occur that people cannot mentally withstand, for example, the fact that they would have to follow a cyclist for five kilometers while climbing, when the cyclist would drive up to 10 km/h, because legally it would not be possible to overtake a cyclist so that the driver would not be threatened by a frontal collision with an anti-driving vehicle. I fear that adoption will create a law that will be broken by most, and often in logical situations that cannot be controlled, which can lead to more tragic confrontations and that forgets other important groups to protect, such as parents with strollers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Profant is enrolled in the debate, Mr Vymazal will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u34	Thank you for the floor. I think that about the G1 and G2 amendments, that's the overtaking, it's been said a lot, and I don't want to go back to that either. I think we all said what needed to be said here. And as I was saying, it's a simple, predictable way, proven Western practice. So, please, let's accept this, let's help the cyclists, let's straighten out the road traffic environment. However, I would like to draw attention to two other amendments that have not been heard so much last time. Both relate primarily to cyclists, but their acceptance will help to clarify and increase the flow of traffic at crossroads for all traffic participants, because in real life the problem of urban cycling, commuting, when you are not going sports in the Giant Mountains to go through, but when you try to go to work every day in the city, there is not a problem up to those straight roads, but the problem is the intersections. This is indeed a place where unpleasant situations occur, because the cyclist has different dimensions, different visibility than the car. Cars often enough at uglier intersections, where there may be bad angles, more traffic, so often the car doesn't even count on a cyclist being there. It's just a really unpleasant experience, a crossroads like this. After all, when we look at Denmark, we can see how almost all the intersections are treated constructionally precisely to meet as little as possible as a cyclist and a motorist, as well as a separate pedestrian. [[10.00 hours]] Amendment E1 extends the possibilities for using specific directional signals for cyclists and complements some of the impossible combinations of signals today. This is particularly useful in urban intersections, where taking into account the different speed or character of cycling transport can make its transport solution significantly more effective and help the smooth operation of motor vehicles and safety and the comfort of cyclists. After all, in many places such a solution has proved successful. The proposed proposal thus unifies and purifies the legislative text and brings it into line with the requirements of practice. In fact, we know the simplest case from carmakers in the United States, where it is possible to turn right even to red, and this can be a very similar case. I'm driving in a protected bike lane, I want to turn right into another protected bike lane, the cars have nowhere to meet me. It's a light-marked intersection. If there's a permanent green light for the cyclist to turn right, I can legally do it and it will help smoothness while I have to wait with the cars and so on. So this is a very simple thing that only takes account of and equalizes other traffic participants, because we can do it for those other participants. There are intersections where this is exactly the way the lights are separated, where the cars can, but for those bikers, the legislation doesn't allow us to. That's wrong. The second proposal I will be talking about is Amendment E11. This concerns indirect left turn of cyclists. Indirect left turn is a way that allows cyclists to turn left and in stronger traffic. A cyclist who wants to go further left instead of crossing the road to the left turns right first (?) where it is usually built directly in the direction of travel. There he waits until he has in his own, now a direct direction of leisure. In this way it avoids demanding and dangerous crossing up to several lanes on busy roads and the entire manoeuvre is safer for both cyclist and faster for motor vehicles that pass the cyclist by faster lanes on the left, it does not always have to wait. When the cyclist goes in the direction of the cars, it's not usually a problem situation, and we get to the fact that the car can more easily pass, that the car simply understands what's going to happen, while the cyclist, who still points his hand, turns, drives into a big crossroads, and that's really complicated for both the cyclist and the car drivers. I assume no motorist wants to hit a cyclist. The indirect left turn is widely used in cycling-developed countries, for example in Copenhagen it does not even turn at most intersections and it has its own tradition in the Czech Republic. For example, this is marked Vršovická Street in Prague. [[It shows clearly in the relevant material.]] There's just this indirect left turn where the wheels come from two directions to then line up and drive in one direction. Legally, however, this indirect left turn can only be used at unsignaled intersections. The law still forgets about the light, and it does not allow a traffic light to be properly built with signals for such a turning. This changes Amendment E11. When designing intersections, there are also still discussions on the legality of indirect left turning, including doubt as to whether it is not an illegal turning at a crossroads. Clear definition in the law thus brings legal certainty, which is the term we have been returning to for several times. It is indeed a measure in which all traffic participants in cities benefit. A good example is the intersection here in Prague at the waterfront near the National Theatre. At this intersection, a direct turn to the left in the direction of the Legion Bridge was banned about a year ago, which ultimately increased the flow of traffic for all involved, including car drivers, cyclists and public transport passengers. At such a busy crossroads, every turning left is a complication and an obstacle to the flow of traffic. The amendment would allow, in such cases, to establish a signal for cycling indirect left turn, thereby significantly increasing the safety of cyclists when passing through this intersection, ensuring that they can be passed in all directions and creating conditions for a more transparent situation as well as for passing motorists. At the same time, this is without prejudice to the capacity or transitability of the intersection for other road users. Yes, so this intersection must have been limited by now as far as the total left turn is concerned, because it couldn't handle it. There was just no capacity. It goes there in four directions of a tram, it's really not a very simple crossroads, and right here it's exactly an example where an indirect left turn is really beneficial. Both of these amendments contain an opportunity, not an obligation, to set up crossroads with these elements. Therefore, their establishment will always take place only where transport and safety are possible and advantageous and where all the organisations concerned agree with the knowledge of the local situation. The adoption of these proposals will not result in new responsibilities, only will the designers free their hands for safe use, in the experience of other countries very functional solutions of complex and busy crossroads. I've got pictures here, of course. [[It shows the relevant material.]] I understand that this indirect left turn is confusing for a person who has never encountered it, but it is really the easiest solution to ensure the cycling good transit through the intersection without building modifications, and safe. It really can be very helpful to cars, which otherwise will meet in the middle of the crossroads with cyclists. Of course, a standing car waiting for a cyclist blocks other cars, which, of course, at the intersection leads to overload, while the indirect left turn always lets the cyclist drive only straight, the cyclist waits in the area directly marked for him and then goes straight again, so for all traffic participants it is significantly clearer. So E11 is really the easiest solution without very expensive construction modifications. If you want to build... really the biggest intersections in Copenhagen, there are separate roundabouts for cyclists and so on, but that's very expensive, but this really can only be rebranded and you can go. And with these light signals, it's really just a lack of our legislation, that while pedestrians can regulate motorists separately, they can't control cyclists. So I'm gonna ask you one more time, except for the G1 and the G2 support the E1 and the E11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u35	I will ask Mr Vymazal, who is enrolled in the debate, to prepare Mr Čižinský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u36	Mr President, Madam Secretary, honourable colleagues, good afternoon from me. I want to comment on the G1 and G2 amendments. As Mr Nacher has already said, everything has fallen here, but the debate has been open and I would also like to support it. If it weren't vague, we wouldn't be talking about it, but practice has shown that the legal provision is very vague. If there is no precise distance as suggested here, 1.5 meters, and by the way, we don't invent anything here, it is invented, and not only invented, but it is in practice very well tested abroad and has a very positive effect, so the 1.5 meters are in many cases easy to control and enforceable. [[10.10 hours]] When you take the width of the road on which the cyclist moves, this cyclist is overtaken by a car and a car rides into the counter, you clearly determine from the width of the road and the width of the car whether the distance is observed or not. Of course, we're not talking about centimeters or anything. It's easy to check, and by that I think we can significantly increase security. Such an analogy is with speed. If you have a village, we have 50 kilometers. You know, it used to be 60, it went down to 50. Some drivers feel it's safe to drive 80, and they say, "Well, I think it's safe. So we need to set boundaries. And that is why I would very much intercede to accommodate this ever larger mass of people who are engaged not only in their free time, but are starting to ride as we build bike paths. Unfortunately, there are very few. We have a significant deficit, although the situation has improved over the last few years, and therefore we also have a large number of cyclists on normal roads. Basically, it's nothing more than to increase consideration and tolerance, and it's nothing less than the lives of those cyclists. So I thank everyone in advance for the support of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Čižinský is enrolled in the debate, Mr Polanský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u38	Thank you, I've only been very brief. Maybe I'll surprise everyone that I'm pushing for a proposal that's a certain whip for cyclists. It is an E5 design and allows for the removal of scooters and wheels by people who leave these means of transport on the sidewalk. I'd like to lobby for this proposal here, because the situation where an arrogant vehicle user leaves his means of transport on the sidewalk is happening and the possibility, not the obligation, but the possibility of letting the means of transport be towed is important to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u39	Thank you. Mr Polanský and then Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u40	Good noon, colleagues, let me briefly summarize the opinion of the pirát on this House press. The original proposal contained in the original House press is supported by colleagues Dolínek pirát. Just to remind you - it's about placing an unauthorized ride in a reserved lane between offences fined by the municipal police. Together with him, we will support or recommend to the club to support some other amendments. Among the more significant, it is a proposal by Mrs Pastuchová, marked with letter B, which allows the IZS to drive at the same speed as other vehicles above 3.5 tonnes in the case of driving with the lighthouses off, also by Mrs Ožanová's C1 and C2 proposals, some proposals by Mr Čižinský's colleague, in particular - my colleague Profant has already talked about this - directional signals for cyclists, indirect left turning or ban stopping and standing vehicles on the pavement. We also support my colleague's proposal. Specialized under letter F, which suggests that tractors can also be driven with a category C driving licence. In the case of Mr Dolínek's amendments identified as G, these are the cyclists, the Pirates Club will be free to vote, but with the recommendation of the department team to support the proposals. We will also support Jurečka's proposal designated as H3 which increases fines on the spot for disobeying the call for weighing an overloaded vehicle. Thank you, colleagues, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u41	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And I have Mr Dolínek's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u42	Thank you. In order to do the legislation, I just have one amendment to make in the debate, and that is to shift the effectiveness of the law to 1 July 2021 so that everything can go well through the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u43	Thank you and Mr Jurečka is entered into the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u44	Thank you. Good morning. I greet you, Mr President, colleagues. I will try to be brief, because the debate is very long, we also have a very important third reading here, which concerns the solution of the very important topic of execution and so on. I have three amendments. I was defending them at second reading, but I would like to remind my colleagues and colleagues here, in particular, that one which concerns the restriction of driving vehicles over 12 tonnes. This proposal aims at limiting the movement of these vehicles on the roads of the second and third classes. Let's say there are two basic reasons why I'm making this proposal. The first one is security, and the second one is the state of communication of second and third classes, which are extremely overloaded in many parts of our country, because it has become a toll route for toll sections within the toll system. I noticed that the proposal was such a short reaction that it would make transport for domestic carriers terribly difficult, that it would simply mean huge problems for our carriers, our companies, businessmen. Who you read the proposal, you could have found out that it wasn't, and I will briefly remind you why - because the proposal envisages a list of specific meaningful exceptions. I will state some of them: for example, a carrier with a vehicle above 12 tonnes may take the road of the second or third class for loading, unloading, to the place of the company, to his service and so on. For example, the region can enter this at a time when, in agreement with the ŘSD, a first-class reconstruction is carried out, for example, so logically it will allow the travel route to lead on the roads of the second and third classes and there is no ban. When I translate it into a complete folk simplification, this ban applies to carriers and wagons over 12 tonnes, who are transiting, who really do not go to any specific place in the locality, for example, international carriers that are only passing through the Czech Republic, and some roads, especially the second classes, serve them as an excellent tour route. So that's why we're going the way of not complicated driving, applying for ban tags, but the way it is in some other countries, on a flat-rate basis on these types of roads, these vehicles with this tonnage are not going to drive except logical exceptions for those who have reason, really justified, to go - they are loading, unloading goods, etc. - and the list of exceptions is here. So I would very much like you to consider possibly supporting this amendment, because in the past, representatives of cities, municipalities and regions have also supported similar efforts, because it is their property, which is significantly overloaded and worn out. That's the first suggestion. The second proposal I propose concerns a matter once again related to security and the state of our communications. The proposal aims to improve enforcement and compliance with the overall weight of the sets, that is, not to overload the vehicles. Today, unfortunately, the driver of the vehicle is quite often under pressure from the employer or the forwarding company, which assumes that the vehicle is simply being overloaded, and just put up a sum of up to CZK 30,000 as payment for the committed offence and it does not have to happen at all, because the weighing could theoretically threaten a fine, which could easily be considered on the basis of the overload, which will be measured, for example in the amount of up to CZK 100,000, so some are dealing with it in this form. I propose to increase the penalty to CZK 100,000 in the event of refusal of weighing and, if necessary, in the second option, a proposal which would mean that the penalty will not only be paid by the driver, but by the operator of the vehicle, if it permanently creates pressure on its driver. It has to do with us really increasing the motivation for operators to respect the maximum permissible weight of the set. So that's the second suggestion. [[10.20 hours]] The third proposal is very brief, extending the possibilities of municipal police to measure in selected places - after prior consultation and decision of the state police - to measure speed in cities and municipalities. So these are my three amendments, please, nicely. At least on the first one, really consider the issue of support. It is not a proposal that would in some way adversely affect our carriers, who have their registered offices in the regions, who drive there on specific loading, specific unloading, which will not really touch this negatively. It is a proposal that will prevent transit traffic, especially for foreign drivers, from heading towards these communications, which are overloaded, often due to this in poor condition, at the costs of the regions that have to pay for these repairs, they do not have the money to do so and the safety of traffic is getting worse especially for urban and municipal residents, where these routes lead. Allow me to make one final comment on the subject that has been discussed so much here, and that is the question of distance between overtaking cars from cyclists. Not that I'm such an active cyclist, but I'm also one of those who ride a bike, but I'm also the one who regularly drives one of the broadest vehicles on our roads for years. I regularly ride with harvesters, which have a width of somewhere three and a half to four meters, I deal with how to overtake the cyclist safely, but I certainly believe that it makes sense to support the proposal that clearly says: we increase the protection of the cyclist by this particular arrangement. As a driver, I am aware of the distance I have to maintain, and I think there is a point in really supporting this proposal. So this is what my colleague Marek Výborný said, we support it for us, whether as a driver - and I also have the authority of Group C - I am able to give this advice here because I have respect for people who ride bicycles. [[si]] People who have been riding bicycles in recent years are also growing thanks to electromobility, many seniors today are increasing their mobility thanks to electric wheels. Let's support it, increase their security, and let's be considerate about this. I think it's worth supporting. If we were to say in general: let's not break the law, as my colleague Ožanová said, to whom I have great respect in terms of expertise, then I say a simple thing: then let's give one law, let's put it ten times and say: If everyone were to follow it, it could be enough in all the rules of our social, but also in other ways, even within the business sector. This life is not that simple, so in many ways we describe things in great detail in law so that it clearly describes who we are protecting and what we define responsibilities and obligations and rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u45	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say that I have announced a vote here, our position on the amendments by Mr Jurečka, however, after consulting and explaining the details, as has also been said here at the moment by the petitioner, I must say that he has convinced me and that I think that Amendment H1 and H2 will be supported by these two amendments, because if there is - and we have also addressed the detail - enough to say that this does not apply to the transport that needs to reach the place, there would not be a restriction in this sense, but, in principle, it would concern transit traffic in order not to travel on the roads of a lower category - and we all know that these transit services are extremely heavy and, indeed, often at the expense of the quality of life and burden in the individual, especially smaller municipalities, which do not have the parameters of roads that would bear this burden - but also in the case of an amendment which addresses the rate of the fine, where it should lead to greater enforcement of the law and would be dragged down by the operator, so I think it is reasonable proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u47	Thank you. A point of fact, Mr. Mr. Brázdil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u48	Thank you for the floor. It's really technical. I would like to, because all of us here feel that we want to help road safety, cyclists, but those walkers are missing, if the translator, Mr Dolínek, through Mr President, is not the one who would withdraw this amendment and complete it not only for cyclists, but also for pedestrians, for horseback riding and so on, maybe also work on a horn that could help in the event of overtaking, that a cyclist, a pedestrian or anyone realizes that someone will overtake it. I think it's simple and every vehicle is equipped with a horn. I just wanted to ask him, he doesn't have a lot of time for it now, if he wasn't willing to take it back, so we'd solve this debate of ours, if he didn't support, and only when he's prepared for the good, but also for the pedestrians, for the cyclists, and for - I don't know - the carriages, then we'll approve it again sometime in the next opening of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u49	Thank you. That is all for now, and I am asking if anyone else wants to speak in the debate. With priority rights, President Válek takes back his application, so I look around in the hall, I see no one, so I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. Mr. Speaker?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u50	Thank you, I appreciate the proposal from my colleague. He told me in advance, I thought about it and, however, at this point, I was already discussing it during the previous discussion that, as far as pedestrians are concerned, things of the type were dealt with, that the pedestrian should be marked visibly in the case of darkness, darkness and so on, that is, part of the pedestrian's position on the road has been dealt with already in the previous amendments. As far as overtaking is concerned, when I have a wagon and others, there are basically classic things like when cars pass, so in the end I will allow myself to leave it for the vote today, because even if I try to do it any better, I will run into other aspects of the laws and regulations in force. I would just like to say - and that is actually the final appeal: when I was an alderman in Prague, I tried to explain all the time in transport that I have three partners here - they are pedestrians, cyclists and motorists, and they all have the same rights, they have to treat each other equally, the only difference is - and as has been said several times - in the range of vulnerability in operation. No one will question that the pedestrian is at his worst, and he must certainly be protected absolutely. Subsequently, a cyclist, who can improve his protection with a little helmet and other things, and I hope that most of us - and not only of us - but of all the participants, cyclists in operation - do so, and then is a motorist. However, they're all partners, and I'd like to say, the look on the road that the driver of the car is king, I think it's outdated. When one driver rides in a car and one cyclist rides a bike, he's still one person. When a family rides a bike in four, a family rides a car, it's four, four again. Please, we're paying the tax roads for all of us, and let's all use them safely as we want to use them, depending on how we like it, to the law itself, but at the same time, sorry, considerately to the others, logically. And on the proposal itself, it was originally preferential stripes, I hope there is no problem. As for the amendments made by my colleagues, I have already spoken to them in the past on the committee, I will almost support everyone, even if some of the Čižinský's proposals fail, so I will be happy to participate in the negotiation with the Ministry of Transport in the future, where appropriate, in order to prepare these matters well, because the many technical things proposed by Mr Čižinský are really causing problems in the transport planning in practice in the municipalities. And if it was clearly used and clarified in the law, it would certainly be easier to propose not only crossroads but also various transport arrangements. But I say, if it doesn't work out today, we're not gonna give up. Thank you and thank you for your vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u51	Thank you. I ask if the rapporteur is interested in the final word. This is not the case, so we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. [[Gong.]] And I'll hand over the meeting proceedings and ask the rapporteur to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u52	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur will introduce us to the voting procedure and then we will agree. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u53	Thank you for the floor, so now the draft procedure as discussed and proposed by the Economic Committee at its meeting on 3 February. [[Gong.]] We propose first to vote on legislative technical amendments, that is the one proposal by Mr Dolínek to change efficiency, then under A, the amendments by the Economic Committee, letter B by Mrs Pastuchová, C1 and C2 by Mrs Ožanová. Then there is an amendment under the letter D by my colleague Ferance, who withdrew it, but we must vote on that withdrawal if we agree with him. Furthermore, a series of amendments by my colleague Čižinský - E1, E2, E3, E4, E5 and E6. In the event of a vote or not, the E6 number shall be unvoting E8 because it shall be identical. Then again from my colleague Čižinský E7, E9, E10 and E11. [[10.30 hours]] Monika Oborná - letter F. Then today so many discussed cyclists of the Member and Mr Dolínek - G2. If G2 is voted, it's in two options, so don't vote G1. If G2 doesn't pass, vote G1. Next, G3. Then three proposals by Marian Jurečka H1, H2, which is in two variants - first H2, variant 1, in case of not voting variant 2, then voting H3. And the last individual is Mr Kohoutek's amendment, but the vote is only the first point of his proposal under letter I; the other one is unvoteable because it has passed the deadline of effectiveness. Finally, the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u54	I thank the rapporteur for the draft procedure. I'm asking if there's a reservation, a change of procedure. I'm looking in the O.R., nobody's checking in. We will vote on the procedure, as presented by the rapporteur, in vote number 60. I'm gonna reengage, and since there's enough people here, I'm gonna put you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And since the number of applicants has stabilized, we can begin voting number 60. I said, who's the designated rapporteur for the procedure? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 60, 103 present, 103 pros, against no one. The procedure has been approved. So we can follow this procedure. rapporteur - first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u55	So now, please vote on legislative technical adjustments. Petr Dolínek, the promoter, applied for this - a shift in efficiency to 1 July 2021. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee - Recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u56	I started voting number 61. I'm asking, who's in favor of changing efficiency? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 61, 103 present, 102 pros, no one against. It's been accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u57	Now, under A, the amendment to the Guarantee Economic Committee. It is relatively brief, merely proposing to extend the deadline for payment of the specified amount from 15 to 30 days. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u58	Okay. I started voting number 62. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 62, 104 for 104. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion? And I will always ask the plaintiffs to speak out, to hear whether they accept proposals or not. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u59	Now, the amendment under letter B to my colleague Jana Pastuchová, who fights for vehicles of integrated rescue units in a sense so that they can, even if they do not go under the lighthouse, drive at a higher speed than 80 kilometres per hour. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u60	Designer? [[Opinion recommending.]] Yes, we will vote in number 63. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 63, out of 104 for 90, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u61	Now, the proposal under the letter C1 by my colleague Zuzana Ožanová, which regulates the exclusivity of all types of offences and administrative offences that previously had different deadlines. A colleague unifies her. Opinion of the Economic Committee: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u62	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 64. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 64, out of 104 in favour of 88, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u63	Once again, Zuzana Ožanová - C2 changes the definition of driving licences for groups AM and B1. It brings them into line with the relevant Union legislation. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u64	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 65. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 65, 104 present, for 89, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u65	The next proposal is the letter D - a colleague of Feranec, who wanted to enter into the issue of removing obstacles in accidents, tows off motorways. A colleague has withdrawn this proposal and please vote that the House agrees to withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u66	Yes, we will vote on the withdrawal of the amendment because the proposal is for third reading. Opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u67	Opinion? The committee does not comment on the withdrawal, but on the content of the proposal itself, it was negative, so I, as rapporteur, can say positive - it is for the withdrawal of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u68	Okay. The plaintiff?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u69	I welcome this step and thank you for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u70	I've started voting 66. Who is in favour of withdrawing this amendment? Who doesn't agree with that? Thank you. Voting number 66, 104 present, 103 pros, 1 pros. The motion has been withdrawn. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u71	There will now be a series of amendments under the letter E by Jan Čižinský. First, we vote on the E1 proposal, where the colleague regulates the use of directional signals for cyclists. The guarantee committee is here without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u72	Designer? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 67. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 67, 104 present, 25 in favour, 46 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u73	Thank you. Now the proposal by Jan Čižinský E2 which addresses the so-called objective responsibility, i.e. the merger of offences committed by vehicle fleet operators or one fleet of vehicles. Guarantee Committee: again without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u74	The plaintiff? [[No opinion.]] I've started voting 68. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 68, 104, for 12, against 28. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u75	Jan Čižinský - E3 which thus eliminates the contradiction between two different paragraphs in situations where the bus driver or trolleybus leaves the bus stop to the reserved lane. Guarantee Committee: again without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u76	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant position.]] I've started voting 69. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting 69, 103 present, for 24, against 19. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u77	Now the design of E4 by Jan Čižinský - allows a wider use of equipment for operational information. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee: once again without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u78	The plaintiff? [[No opinion.]] I've started voting number 70. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 70, 103 present, 12 pros, 20 cons. It was also rejected. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u79	Now, proposal E5. There's been a bigger discussion about him here. It is the issue of towing vehicles or transport equipment, such as scooters, shared bikes and the like, from pavements. E5, Jan Čižinský. A guarantee committee without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u80	And the plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 71. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 71, out of 103 of 68 in favor, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u81	So I can congratulate my colleague on behalf of some municipalities and cities. Now, Amendment E6, which is identical to proposal E8. E6 introduces a two-point penalty for unauthorised parking in a parking lot reserved for disabled persons into the point system. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u82	And the plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 72. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 72, out of 103 in favour, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u83	So that's an unvoting E8. Now the proposal E7 - the issue of tandems and so-called beer bikes. Opinion of the Guarantee Committee positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u84	The plaintiff? [[Opinion recommending.]] I've started voting number 73 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 73, 103 present, 74 in favour, 10 against. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u85	Proposal E9, still Jan Čižinský. In this step, a colleague introduces the definition of the term cyclist into the law. The guarantee committee does not recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u86	The plaintiff? [[No opinion.]] I started voting number 74. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 74, out of 103 in favour, 46 against. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u87	Now the proposal of E10 colleague of Čižinský. It regulates the reasons which exclude the liability of the vehicle operator under so-called objective liability. The guarantee committee does not recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u88	And the plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 75. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 75, 103 present, 15 pros, 41 cons. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u89	And it is the last proposal of a colleague of Čižinský, allowing the so-called indirect turning of cyclists on the left at traffic wide and wide intersections. The guarantee committee in this case is without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u90	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant position.]] I've started voting number 76 and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 76, 103 present, 24 pros, 29 cons. The motion was denied. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u91	Now the proposal under letter F to my colleague Monika Oborná, which proposes that it be possible to drive tractors with a driving licence other than T Group. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u92	klid, please. [[Suggestor: Recommendant opinion.]] Well, thank you. Voting number 77. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 77, 103 in favour of 97, against no one. The motion was accepted. I ask the House for peace so that it is understood by the rapporteur on which proposal we are voting. We're at the third reading, and please don't underestimate it. Mr rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u93	Thank you, we've solved the tractors. And now the cyclists, and they are the most discussed proposals, in two variants, Mr. Petr Dolínek, since the entry of the cyclists. At first, I propose to vote on the G2 option, which is a compromise and says it's not just 1.5 meters, but in places where the so-called zones are 30 kilometers per hour, so it's just 1 meter, so it's more moderate, let's say. The guarantee committee is here without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u94	The plaintiff? [[Opinion recommending.]] I've started voting number 78. I said, who's in?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u95	Step away from cyclists, milder variant, 1.5 meters, and 1 meter in zones. If this passes, the G1 won't be voted out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u96	Well, in that case, vote number 78, I declare it confusing, because on... on a question from the diaper... [[I'm sorry. Well, maybe I'll explain it one more time.]] Calm down, please. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] One more time. I declare vote 78 misguided and ask the rapporteur to explain exactly the proposal we are about to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u97	A colleague of the cyclists solves in two variants - G1 and G2. In variant G1, it proposes a distance of 1,5 meters in all cases. In variant G2, we can consider it milder or more compromiseable, suggesting a distance of 1.5 meters everywhere, and only a meter where there are so-called residential zones, or where it is 30 kilometers in an hour, so it is milder. Imagine in urban development, in intravilane, where there are lower speeds, only meters. We have approved the procedure, so first we decide on G2, which is the milder option. If approved, the G1 is logically unvoting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u98	Okay. So now we're voting G2, a milder option. I have begun voting number 79 and I ask who is in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 79, out of 102 votes 67 in favour, against 6. The motion was accepted. So G1 is unvoted, we can move on to point 20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u99	Thank you. So I'm saying that we've approved the distance from the cyclists in the milder or more compromiseable version, and therefore the G1 is unvoting. We will now proceed to the proposal - we are still at Petr Dolínek - G3, which proposes to remove some of the partial shortcomings and errors contained in the original parliamentary proposal, in a way a little legislative technical correction of our own proposal. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u100	[[Suggestor: Recommendant opinion.]] I've started voting number 80, I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. No. 80 votes, 103 votes 100 votes against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u101	Now a series of proposals by Marian Jurečka under the designation H1. Its first proposal, which wants to limit transit by truck on the roads of the second and third classes for vehicles above 12 tonnes. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u102	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I've started voting number 81. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 81, out of 103 present 44 pros, 8 pros. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u103	Now design H2, which Marian Jurečka prepared in two variants. In both variants it proposes that the driver cannot refuse to consider the possible overloaded vehicle. According to the procedure, first we will vote option 1 if it were voted, so is unvoting option 2. So now please vote H2 in option 1. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u104	The plaintiff? [[Recommendant.]] I started voting number 82. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 82, out of 103 in favour of 53, 7 against. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u105	The proposal was adopted, so it is already an unvoting option 2 of this proposal and we have dealt with it. We now approach the design of H3 Marian Jurečka, which allows more access to the possibility of measuring speed to municipalities, and also simplifies the choice of sanctions. So it's a speed measurement for municipalities using radars. H3 - the opinion of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u106	The plaintiff? [[Unadvisable.]] I started voting number 83. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 83, 103 present, for 6, versus 38. The motion was denied. Another proposal, possibly the last one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u107	It is the last individual proposal under the letter I of Mr Jiří Kohoutek. He's got two parts. We cannot vote on the other one because the time limits have expired, but we can vote on the first one. The Member here proposes that, in the tunnels on motorways, it is possible to set the maximum allowed speed of up to 110 km per hour by the competent authority in the context of local arrangements. The guarantee committee is without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u108	The plaintiff? [[Unadvisable.]] I started voting number 84. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 84, out of 103 of 45 in favour, against 13. The motion was not accepted. Was that the last proposal, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u109	Yes. I confirm that we have dealt with all individual proposals, and if there is no objection, we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-14-ps2017-098-02-007-335.u110	Yes. If none of the proposers of the amendments feel hurt that his proposal has not been voted on, I think we have really exhausted it all. I can bring forward the motion for a resolution and we will vote on the proposal as a whole: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Mr Petr Dolínek to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Traffic on the Road and amending certain laws, as amended, according to the House of Press 374 as approved by the Chamber of Deputies'. [[Road Traffic Act]] I've started voting number 85, and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 85, out of 103 in favour of 73, against 2. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you, rapporteur, thank you, rapporteur, and I conclude item number 335 of our meeting. According to the approved agenda, we will proceed with item 336. I will ask the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová to take her place at the rapporteur's table. At the same time, I will ask my colleague Výborný, who will replace the rapporteur, Mr Chvojka, from the Constitutional and Legal Committee. We don't have to vote on this. Once the situation has calmed down, I will begin discussing this point. I will ask colleagues who are still discussing the road law to transfer their discussion to the lobby, first from left to right, then from right to left. Please, really, discussion... Well, I think it's quiet enough here. Initiating point
