ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u1	1. Proposal for the election of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies On this point, you have received the resolution of the Election Commission number 14 of 22 November 2021, and I am asking that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, inform us about the candidates proposed and inform us of the next procedure. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good afternoon and I present you on behalf of the Election Commission, which has prepared another election for this afternoon by the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Following the decision of the Chamber of Deputies from the week before last, we have announced a deadline for the submission of proposals. The deadline expired yesterday, on Monday, 22 November, and the electoral commission discussed the proposals submitted at its 4th meeting on the same day. It is therefore a choice for the post of one remaining unelected Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. We adopted resolution number 14 on the electoral committee, which we sent to all the presidents of the MPs by default, and you also have it on your desks. Let me remind you that the Chamber of Deputies, on 10 November, by its resolution number 8, set the number of Vice-Presidents to six, five have already been elected that day, and thus one place has not yet been elected. Members' clubs were designed by these candidates for the sixth place of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I read them in alphabetical order: first, Tomio Okamura, designed by the SPD, second, by Radek Vondráček, proposed by the ANO movement. In this way, alphabetically and with a serial number before the name, the candidates will also be listed on the ballot you use for the selection. According to Law No. 90/1995, on the Rules of Procedure, the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies shall be elected in a majority manner and in a secret vote pursuant to Section 75 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and the selection takes place in no more than two rounds. It is similar, virtually the same as the President's choice. In this choice, you can now select only one of the two names by ringing the number before the name you choose. On the contrary, you must mark the middle name with a cross, otherwise your ticket will be invalid. The provisions for the secret election are otherwise the same; in the first round, the Vice-President shall be elected one who shall receive an absolute majority of the votes of Members present. If the first round isn't successful, it's repeated in the second round. It will be followed by two proposed candidates. Now, Madam President, I ask you to open the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am opening a debate in which I have several entries with the fact that I am also registering Mr Bartoš's actual application, but that is obviously a mistake, so I will delete, don't worry, all right. All right, that was a mistake. Madam Secretary and Chairman of the ANO Club Alena Schillerová is now reporting for the debate. Another with priority rights for the SPD club is the Vice-President of the Club Rozvoral due to the apology of the President. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to introduce you to the nomination of the ANO club, which once again proposed the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. And since it was mostly the election of the President that was discussed at the inaugural meeting, allow me a few words to justify our nomination. We are aware that in the first round Radek Vondráček did not receive the necessary number of votes, yet he has the clear support of our club. In my opinion, he was clearly a good chairman who served conscientiously. Over the four years, I have not noticed a single complaint about the style of meeting management, decision making and, in general, his work, on the contrary, positive opinions are often heard by colleagues from both coalitions. I would like to thank, for example, Vice-President Kovářová, who was not afraid to say this opinion in public on one of the TV discussion programmes: "Vondráček drove the House well, I can say very well. The last speech about the president was very damaging to him in the eyes of the coalition. Club YES is a club sovereign, it can insist on its candidates. I am not inclined to illustrate the candidates of other parties, but the majority opinion is this and most decisions are made." Thanks were received from President Pekarová Adamová at the setting meeting, and he thanked Radek Vondráček with a standing ovation. All the reasons I have heard so far seem to me in any case to be a proxy, and it affects me rather as if there were coalitions - and I hope it is not - of Radek Vondráček's concern. The fear that a man who has tremendous experience in managing the House will be put into charge is well aware of the rules of procedure and procedures, and who is, moreover, a lawyer - the only person who would be in charge of the House if elected. If that is the case, there is no need for concern here, because Radek Vondráček and those last four years led the House sideways and fairly. I find it quite essential that there is a lack of a lawyer in the House's leadership at the moment, as I said a moment ago, and I am stressing that again. I must also say that I do not find it happy for the coalitions to dictate to us what candidates we will choose for the places that, according to the relative representation, belong to us. I therefore ask that you consider all these arguments and support our candidate, whom we consider to be of extreme quality. And if you think otherwise, please say so on the microphone so that Radek Vondráček can defend himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u5	Thank you. Subsequently, the Vice-President of the SPD with the opinion of the SPD, namely Mr Radek Rozvoral, is registered with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, dear government, today we will vote for the remaining post of Vice-President of the House, for which the SPD MP has proposed the chairman of the Tomio Okamura movement. To date, the election of the House's leadership is a denial of proportional representation in its leadership and shows elements of arrogance of power. In the parliamentary elections held at the beginning of October of this year, the SPD received 514 000 votes from voters, which cannot be ignored under democratic principles. The SPD Members' Club has 20 Members in its new composition, and according to its proportional representation, we should have one seat in the House's leadership, even if only five Vice-Presidents were elected. Here I will mention that our movement does not cling to functions, but we just want democratic values not to be trampled down, with which representatives of future government five-wheelers are very often shielded. The newly elected President of the House, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová, from the SPOLU coalition, for example, proposed in the last election as Vice-President of the House of Tomio Okamura, among other things in an interview for Deník, said that the SPD movement is not interested in developing democracy in the Czech Republic, but rather crashing it. According to her, Democrats can't vote for someone who doesn't think well of democracy. So I ask: what can be more democratic than the direct democracy that the SPD has advocated since its establishment by trying for several years to adopt a functional law on a broad and binding national referendum in the Czech Republic? I will answer for myself: there is nothing more democratic than a direct democracy, so idle talk about democracy in a demo block is in this case merely a beating of empty straw. In the SPD movement, we consider direct democracy to be a fundamental tool for defending the freedom and rights of citizens of the Czech Republic, and therefore we are promoting an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic in order to strengthen the elements of direct democracy in our political system. We are also in favour of the equality of rights and obligations of all citizens of the state. The same conditions, the same rules, the same access to public services for all citizens, including seniors and disabled. There must be no discrimination. In this context, I will mention the concept of political culture, which is used across different areas. Experts talk about it, it is often used by politicians, journalists, and sometimes we can hear about it from ordinary citizens. Most often, this concept appears in the context of negative political events, when citizens express their dissatisfaction with politics, especially with major political actors or institutions. It has been confirmed that some indicators on the basis of which we can assess the state of the country's political culture show consistently low values in the Czech environment. Specifically, it is about trust in political institutions, evaluation of satisfaction with political situation and policy in general. Ladies and gentlemen, in the SPD movement, we respect the universally respected ethical principles that we apply both in our deliberations in the Chamber of Deputies and in the context of the conduct of our movement towards the public. Here it is appropriate to recall again the words of Markéta Pekarová Adamová after the results of the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies in which she was elected have been announced. In her first speech as President of the Chamber of Deputies, she said that the House should, first and foremost, look at it to represent the whole - here I dare repeat the whole - public. It is said that it is the duty of Members to act together and defend the interests of all citizens, particularly in key matters - here again I will allow myself to repeat: all citizens. In this important sentence, she added: "And I think we will be able to do that. " So we're going to be surprised how it's really going to be. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement is a patriotic movement that promotes systemic changes that would create a real democracy in our country without attributes. We will always promote civil and national freedom, direct democracy, spiritual and cultural European traditions and national pride. We will fight to maintain the legacy of our ancestors who have won our national rights in the past. Masters in the Czech Republic must be citizens, not self-appointed elites, whoever they represent. In the Chamber of Deputies, we will be a constructive opposition to the bills and their changes leading to the benefit of our decent and working citizens, all in order to improve the quality of their lives. In the context of the negotiation and approval of laws and their amendments, we will always support those which we will believe are necessary for the Czech Republic and our citizens, and we will not take into account the political party's presentation of the law. And the main thing I'm doing here. For us, it is totally unacceptable for the pirát with 4 Members or TOP 09 with 14 Members to have representation in the leadership of the House, and the SPD with 20 Members does not have that representation. In the elections a month ago, we received more than half a million electoral votes, which cannot be ignored and thrown into the trash, which is why we continue to insist on proportional representation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u7	The next one for the debate is - and so far the last one registered - Mrs Helena Válková... Then I see another application. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u8	I promise not to hold back the peace, but still, although I would not want to slide down to some laudatio on Radek Vondráček, I will not forgive myself from the choice that is secret, and I do not know if I will affect anyone when I see our numbers in the Chamber, but those who remain here will try to remember a number of situations where he, when he led the House in the last parliamentary term, and it was sometimes a very turbulent and dramatic situation, and it was not just a pandemic situation, but also political heated debate, has always remained impartial, independent. I must say that at some point it seemed to some of us that he should remember a little bit that he was a member of the YES movement, but he always strictly heeded that he was chiefly the President of the Chamber of Deputies and did not slip into that political plane. And that in my eyes, at least, Radek Vondráček, ejects him to a place that we should consider whether we should also judge him by a secret choice in the 9th term, or the position of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. No, Prime Minister, we respect the results of the elections here, but the Vice-President. Of course, all of us know that the next consideration - considering the coming, secret elections are secret elections and we never know how they will turn out - is the chairman of the constitutional-legal committee. Very prestigious among lawyers - how I would like to be chairman of the constitutional-legal committee, but the lot did not fall on me this time and I am the chair of the mandate and the immune, as you know. So a very prestigious position or position between lawyers and I would certainly like it from the bottom of my heart, but I think that he is the continuity and also the representative of good manners. And I think that one dance, as I said today at the House of Deputies - and Members laughed at me - although it was not the best proof that I respect the dignity of the Chamber of Deputies, but one dance and perhaps one dance in the fact that he was not in the guise where he was supposed to be, and he was supposed to be a role model for other fellow citizens, is really a question of whether these errors are sufficient to assess whether we should not consider whether, for the sake of continuity, impartiality, independence, decent manners and good representation, we are not going to throw the card that we are going to fill out in a moment, or by circling the appropriate name, so whether or not we are going to do this, in order not to get involved. In any case, he'll get my vote, otherwise I wouldn't even get out here, and I think he would represent us well as the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that even the ANO movement would represent us well in this regard, but we are all, as the Chamber of Deputies, undoubtedly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u9	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Brázdil is reporting in de facto? [[No.]] No? So if you can wait, because Minister Brabec volunteered. Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the lead in the meeting and looking forward to smooth cooperation. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll be brief. I'll follow up on what my dear colleague Válková said. I have experienced Radek Vondráček as many of you have not only been here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I am convinced that there can be no fundamental reservation to his leadership of the meeting, and on the contrary, we have all seen many times that he drove it very professionally, managed it with insight and drove it without any partyism. But I've seen it in situations that maybe not all of you have. I experienced him as a representative of the Czech Republic abroad and I can assure you that we were definitely not at Machu Picchu together, even though we were in a relatively exotic foreign country, but we were together at dozens of meetings where he represented the Czech Republic very dignifiedly, very dignifiedly represented the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic and did so in a way that makes us friends and makes friends around the world. He did it with his famous nobleness, with a sense of humor and I think, and I am convinced that even in countries that are culturally and religiously far away, they remember that the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic had arrived there. And I'm really serious about that. So, while I'm sure I can't convince, I'm not gonna open up a hardened heart, after all, there aren't a lot of people I wanted to reach out to, at this point in the room. I will not convince them to change their mind about Radek Vondráček's choice as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, so I still wanted to do it and I want to do it, because with a very clean, good conscience, I will once again cast a vote for Radek Vondráček, and it would be great if you did at least some of you who didn't do it in that first choice, and I am convinced that Radek deserved it for everything he did here. He's a very skilled man, but he's a man with charisma, and it's just not completely automatic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u11	Thank you, Minister. Mr Brázdil has added another to the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, all of you who may have been briefed on your clubs, so I want to teach you all - I'm sorry to do this: it's a secret choice, and what you throw there is entirely up to you. And if Radek hurt someone -- it must be the ones who were here, it can't be the new ones -- come here and say it, don't be ashamed. And if you have such a reservation, say and maybe you'll have fun, have fun, and stand up and say that Radek is bad. No, it's not! It's not. He's a Moravák. And I would also like to draw attention to the important thing that the Vice-Presidents should represent not only the partiality - and please do not refer to any candidate - but they should also represent the country. There won't be anyone from Moravia if you don't give him a vote. I'm begging you very much. He's a friend of mine, too. He's a Moravák, he's a good man. And if you danced here, he didn't dance, they played guitar... Between us girls, the House didn't work, it was a construction site, and I'm sorry if that's bullshit, forgive me, it can affect whether you circle his name or not. I hope that doesn't happen. Radek, I'm rooting for you. Please, if you think a little bit with me as a Moravák, I beg you too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'm just reminding you that we address colleagues and colleagues through me. Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? Therefore, if no one is reporting, I will conclude the debate and ask the President for clarification. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u14	Thank you for the floor. All I'm saying is that the choice is not to be voted on because it's a secret choice by law. The election room is ready. Now, Madam President, I ask you to interrupt this point for the election. We will issue ballots from this moment on 12 or 11.5 minutes, so please come to the elections by 15.40. [[Objection from the diaper.]] I'm sorry, 15.50. I have to do my math again. So by 15.50, we'll be issuing ballots. Then to sum up and evaluate please prefer with a small margin of 15 minutes, which means at 16.05 I can publish the results and we can continue the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u15	Yes, therefore, the issue of ballots will begin immediately after the suspension of our negotiations and it will take 11 minutes, then we will leave the electoral committee for another 15 minutes to process the results of the secret ballot. We'll meet at the meeting room at 16 o'clock. I am interrupting the meeting for the secret election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll see you in the meeting room at 16.05. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u16	Dear fellow Member, honourable Members, I am opening an adjourned meeting on the Election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And before I give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, I will read the following apologies. President Rakušan apologizes today between 15.00 and 16.30 for working reasons, Mr Petr Gazdík apologizes today from 15 to 16.00 for working reasons, also the Foreign Minister Jakub Kulhánek apologizes today from 16.05 for working reasons. And now I give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to inform us of the outcome of the secret election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u17	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. Here is the result of the second election for the vacancy of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. 185 Members and Members came to the elections. So 185 ballots were issued. The quorum required for the election was 93. The number of tickets submitted was 88. The number of unsubmitted tickets was 97. So 97 Members and Members have decided not to take part in the election, not to hand over their ticket. This simply allows me to say that when only 88 were submitted, less than the quorum, the choice could not have been successful. And this is the following result: Tomio Okamura received 18 votes and Radek Vondráček received 65 votes. I therefore note that in the first round of this election, no one has been elected, and in accordance with the electoral order, both proposed candidates are moving forward. And I'll add more information: technically, to prepare the possible second round of the electoral commission needs about five, six minutes at the moment, so the second round can be prepared in a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-11-23-ps2021-002-01-002-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In this case, I would propose that the electoral commission be able to prepare tickets so that we interrupt this point and I would propose to open another point, and that is the proposal for a sitting order of Members in the Chamber of Commons. So let me vote on interrupting this point until the ballots are ready so that we can discuss the next item. I hereby initiate the vote and ask who is in favour of interrupting this point? Who's against it? Voting number seven, 181 Members voted in favour of 161, against no one. The motion to interrupt has been accepted. And now let me open another point, and that's
