ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 458/2000 Coll., on business conditions and on the performance of state administration in energy sectors and on the amendment of certain laws (energy law), as amended, Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Living Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 799/ - second reading I'll just read the apologies, Mr. Secretary, just a moment. Jan Jakob apologizes between 5:00 and midnight, and Mr Špičák apologizes from the meeting today from 13:00 to 14:00 for reasons of work. So, under the authority of the government, the draft bill will be presented by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Industry and Trade and the Minister of Transport Karel Havlíček. So, Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not, with permission, delay because we are at second reading. We have discussed the energy law here many times, so I am merely stating that a draft law is being put forward which changes the energy law and which pursues a number of objectives that are being discussed continuously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u3	Okay. In general, okay? We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 799/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Patrik Nacher, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and of any possible amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, Mr President, Minister. Let me briefly inform you how the negotiations on this very useful law or amendment took place, which addresses in particular - and you all know it under the abbreviation - the energy industry. We discussed it on the Economic Committee. Allow me to introduce you to what economic amendments have been approved. I will not burden you with that which has not been approved and where my honourable colleagues have withdrawn their proposals, which I am glad, because the proposal will at least be very, very simple. My amendment to the resolution of... because the comprehensive, 24 points, we will talk about this at about the third reading, and the two amendments by Jurečka concerning the safety zones that do not apply to gas, and the customer's obligations will shift to owners in the future. Similarly, my colleague Luzar's amendment to international aid for the cross-border use of gas containers was adopted. Three amendments by my colleague Pavel Pustějovskýějovský were then adopted with regard to the implementation of the EU - gauges, emergency gas supply, electronic billing. In the same way, an important amendment by my colleague Rakušan was adopted - the possibility for municipalities to ban door-to-door sales, which underscores this whole thing. Finally, two amendments on timing were adopted. One is a colleague of Rakušan - a transitional provision to shorten from 18 months to half a year, a colleague of Pustějovský - efficiency to shift to 1. 1. 2022. Then, following the interpretation of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade René Neděla, my intelligence report and the general and detailed debate, the Economic Committee recommended that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve this House press 799 as amended by the amendments I read at this moment. It empowers me, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. And he instructs the rapporteur to present a report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee, which I have now carried out briefly. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. That's what happened. We're taking this very briefly. I think we're going to have a substantive debate at third reading, but for myself, I think press 799 is in this conflict, and I think people are going to stop at that time, when someone is ringing the door and offering us this cheaper energy, and they're pushing us some kind of power, so this proposal will put a stop to it, it's going to end. And I'd be happy to approve this at the June meeting as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u5	I am now opening a general debate and with priority rights President STAN Vít Rakušan and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u6	Hello. Thank you, Mr President, Minister, colleagues. I would only apply very quickly to my amendments. The genesis was that we had prepared our own bill, however, in agreement with both the Minister and the rapporteur, we withdrew from the amendment - it is unnecessary to create a competitive one. However, I would recapitulate seven amendments introduced into the system. We will, of course, have a more detailed discussion of them at the third reading. Really, there's only one short paragraph to each. House printing 7384: The proposed provision allows the consumer at any time to request the holder of the licence as a Contracting Party to provide a copy of the contract concluded or to amend it, including a communication of the exact date of termination of the contract. The consumer may request the sending of the contract in both paper and electronic form. House printing 7385: the proposed provision protects consumers in particular in situations where there is a change in the supplier of electricity or gas and the relevant legal conduct for consumers is negotiated by the intermediary. In such a case, if the consumer should be injured by making such a change, the intermediary shall require the prior written consent of the consumer to agree to the change. Furthermore, very briefly, 7386: amendments to the provisions of Section 11 of the Act aim to provide the same level of legal protection, both by means of distance contracts and by means of agreements concluded by the intermediary on behalf of the consumer. House printing 7387: the change is inserted into the amendment for the purpose of increasing customer protection, consumer protection. In accordance with the proposed provision, the consumer, in exercising his right to withdraw from the contract or in a legally determined manner, cannot be sanctioned by the holder of the licence in any way which may impede the termination of the contractual relationship. [[15.10 hours]] House document 7388: the proposed legislation responds to the current situation, where, in the light of recent caselaw, it is not possible for municipalities to effectively regulate door-to-door energy sales within the meaning of the Energy Act. The principle of the proposed legislation is to establish directly into the Energy Act the legal authority of the municipality to issue regulations which may provide that certain forms of sale of goods or services carried out outside the commercial premises, by the holder of a licence in the course of a licensed activity or intermediary in the course of the intermediary activity in the energy sectors, are prohibited in the municipality or in part thereof. Here I thank the committee for its support, I consider this to be the most important thing for mayors and mayors throughout the Republic. Just as we see in the municipalities at the beginning that there is a ban on door-to-door sales, it will also be possible to ban door-to-door sales of electricity and other energy. The last two prints very quickly. House document 7389: the obligation to demonstrate financial assumptions to ensure the performance of the intermediary's activities is necessary for the performance of the intermediary's activities. It is desirable for the intermediary to provide security not only on the quality of the applicants themselves but also on other qualities relating to the assurance of the performance of the activity itself. And the last House document 7390: the proposed amendment aims to shorten the period when intermediaries could also carry out intermediary activities without authorisation to act as intermediaries, since it is not desirable to extend the period when insufficient regulation leads to certain intermediaries resorting to unfair practices. Thank you for your attention, I was trying to get top speed. I would like to thank you for preparing this legal standard. Whatever form it is approved, it is a step in the right direction to protect citizens and consumers. Of course, I will sign up for my amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u7	Mr Ivan Adamec will now appear and Mr Jiří Kohoutek will be prepared. All right, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I confess that I have encountered a slightly different problem in the context of this draft law than the Gros of the law, as presented and what my colleague Patrik Nacher has said here. But I have to say, the problem - I ran into him by accident, it wasn't even targeted, that I was approached by lobbyists, because we have, I would say, a bit of a problem in the market for the filling of propane-butane bottles, especially those that are larger than 2 kilos, respectively 5, 10, 33 kilos. And it was my surprise to find out how this whole thing worked. I've been trying to find out the truth, texting the minister, answering my question, Deputy Secretary Neděla. I admit that the answers didn't satisfy me very much, because I think we want the market to work without bumps, without litigation, without competition, I would say the means that don't belong to it, and I don't think the situation here is quite good. I have to say, there's actually about a hundred or more gas bottlers on the market in these bottles, and there's a problem that someone has to fix the bottles, someone has to revise them, and of course, the owner of the bottle should always do it. Here's the buried dog who actually owns the bottle. I must say that by the year - now I have it written here somewhere to make no mistake - by 1994, the owner of a comprehensive packaging fund of cylinders in the Czech Republic was only one entity, namely the Czech Gas Enterprise, a state enterprise, but from 1. 1st of this year, the organizing group of the state-owned company was separated from individual split plants: fillings of České Budějovice, Karlovy Vary, Dýšina, Satalice, Opatovice, Horní Suchá, Hustopeče, which were subsequently privatized. Well, here's the problem, 'cause I see it as a match between big fillers and small fillers, and actually how it is with the possibility of filling those bottles at all. Probably each of us or most of us have a grill at home where we use these pressure vessels, mostly ten kilos, some two kilos, but it doesn't concern, there is a market completely free. Here's the problem with the larger containers, because the question is first of all, what are those privatization bottles that aren't described by some registration numbers and prices on the market, and now take them, and there are other bottles that have been bought by individual bottlers, mostly the larger ones, and maybe even the smaller ones, and now how the system can work. I don't know, I bought a pressure bottle years ago, I needed it, I normally paid for it, and I lived in the naive idea that the bottle was mine. Well, that's probably a problem, because when you use gas and you usually come to a gas station or a store that runs a store with these bottles, they change your bottle. They're not gonna put gas in that bottle in the dispensary. It has to go to the bottler, and here's the problem, because you put your bottle in, but your bottle won't come back, you'll get another bottle. I think as a user, as a consumer, I don't care, I need that bottle to be functional, to have as much gas in it as it has to be to buy what I ordered and what I paid for. But the problem is, the bottles are moving on. They're labeled differently today, and they should travel to the individual bottlers where the bottles are written, because they have to care that the bottles are safe, and at the same time they're sure they can fill them. And now take that it happens that the bottles get into other businesses, other bottle shops that they practically don't own, and they're afraid to fill them because they can be inspected, and they find that it's a problem that the bottle doesn't really belong to them and that they can't even fill it. And this is the subject of huge moves, I would say, and I would say a competitive struggle, where those big businesses operating here in the Czech Republic are simply trying to eliminate the small bottlers. Well, that's it, that's reality. There's even stuff going on that makes the bottles redecorate, that these bottles have a collar pulled off, the collar boiled over so that the ownership ends somewhere else. And I think that the situation that is in this market is unsustainable in the long run. I get it when someone buys those bottles, so they're actually his, but now the question is whether I'm gonna buy it as a customer, if I'm actually just buying the right to deposit the bottle, which was definitely not the bottle sold, and that I'm not actually a part of the delivery business. I'm just the one who just takes a bottle from anyone, especially when it's the stuff I ordered, and the gas is in the volume I need. If I were to read to you here - and I don't have it in my habit - a reason message and list all those... [[There's noise in the room.]] I understand you don't care, but you should. I've got time. I'll do it again. I'll read you the reason message if you want, I'm in no hurry. Mr President, could you give me some peace? I am sorry, Mr President, to disturb you, but I would like to have some peace here. I feel like no one wants to barbecue anymore or I don't know, or he doesn't care, some bottle here, a bottle there. But I think it doesn't matter. I got the answer when I was trying to finish, when I made an amendment, which says that the bottle can be filled in any bottler that meets the standards and has the device, so it's made a fuss. And I learned from the D.O.D.'s representatives that the situation is okay, that this is the right way to set it up. Well, I don't think so. I really don't think that's right. The courts are in danger here. I think the companies are telling each other who filled the bottle and everything, and it's not good. [[15.20 hours]] On the other hand, I have to say that when I thought about it and took the arguments of the big filling rooms, even the big players on the market, so clearly that they are right. That bottle, if they put it on the market, they're actually owners. They don't think they're selling the bottle. She's just theirs because they have to worry about the revisions, they have to worry about making this bottle in good technical condition, because there's no one else who should be watching this. That's right, he's the owner. Now take what's going on with you. Are you the owners of the bottle or just the backup or what? And there were all sorts of things. When there was one business, of course, it was very simple, no one argued, filled one business in their bottlers. Of course, privatization took place, which is also fine. However, now those businesses that are here on the market - and there are a lot of them - and I don't think we should regulate the number of these businesses by doing restrictions that they can perform and what they can't do. If they can do it, I think they should do it. And there's a little bit of černý Petr here that nobody really knows how to handle, and the fact that it's happening, that's true. Also, if you've noticed, the bottles suddenly change colors. I was buying a classic blue bottle. Tonight, I don't care if I get a red, yellow or anything like that, as long as it's the gas I ordered so I don't put anything else in it, God forbid, in the barbecue so I don't put out a fire instead of barbecue. And I also want the bottle changed to be technically safe. On the other hand, I must say that I do not think that this can be resolved by a simple amendment that I tabled there to raise the debate on this issue. It's just reality. We can't do this by suddenly letting the bottles go free and the owners are just supposed to take care of it, and they don't have any of it. I understand that. But on the other hand, it is necessary to find such a system and find a regime that allows all those who have filling plants to participate in the market, regardless of the fact that the bottles travel in different circles and then there is a big problem how to deal with each other. And that is not for a simple amendment, it is not. That's why I wanted to say that I'm not going to do it, I'm not going to apply to it today, that amendment, which is under number 7436, I'm not going to do it. But I'm asking the Minister here to put his team on hold and try to resolve the problematic issues of the market for these bottles, because I think if we let it go the way it does without proper adjustments, we're just increasing the legal uncertainty in this state that there's gonna be a whole series of lawsuits and it won't be for the benefit of anyone, let alone the end customer, which is all of us who are using it. So I just wanted to say that maybe it looks like a technical problem, but it's a market problem. When I filed it, it aroused a big discussion, and the big ones came to me and said that how is it possible that we, as the Civil Democratic Party, want to deny private ownership, but that is not the case. We just want the market to work so that it can be fulfilled so that everyone is happy. And as a customer, I don't care which bottle I get. I really don't care, as long as it's doing its purpose and how it's going to run in the internal system of fillings, the players in this market, I don't think I care anymore as a customer. But we should definitely be interested in this from the point of view, I say, the legal certainty of this market. I'm not gonna do it, because it's not gonna work out that easy. I think it's for thought, and I'm asking the minister to really look at it, because I'm definitely not satisfied with the answers, and I don't think it's safe to say that it's okay and that the occasional theft of those bottles - because they're thefts then in this, as I would say, the concept of the fight - so that the police or someone else will solve it, and that as a result it could lead to a narrowing of the market, that actually there would be four big players left and the rest would be gone. And I don't think it's our job or our goal, I don't think it's the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and I think we should do everything we can to make this market clear and transparent. I do not want to increase the legal uncertainty, so I will not submit the amendment. Thank you for listening to me until now, and I believe that we will ever come back to this and that we will solve this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u9	Thank you. I have three factual points here. Mr Petr Pávek will be the first to speak, Mr Pavel Růžička will be prepared and then Mr Milan Brázdil. Ambassador, you have two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I am now a little disappointed by Mr Adamec, because I am quite familiar with this issue and I was hoping that we will therefore incorp the amendment into the law, because, as in other sectors, whether it is energy, whether it be transport, telecommunications, the proposal should have triggered the process of the so-called unbundling, or the separation of the media and the journey, or in this case the gas bottle. I consulted, of course the lobbyists from the small ones and the large ones came to see me, so I listened carefully to their positions. I believe that if the proposal had been filed, it would have forced the big players on the market to deal with this particular department, the unbundling. And they could organize it. They have enough power and enough resources to make sure that gas cylinders have safe media parameters through some third subject, some association or something like that. It's like when you buy a drink, so the carrier, a bottle or a can, doesn't belong to the manufacturer, but it's just a product that's supposed to be recycled, it can be backed up and used again, and we certainly wouldn't be having that kind of debate with a beer bottle. It's interesting that we're running it by the gas bottles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u11	Thank you, too, for keeping the time precise. Mr Pavel Růžička, Mr Milan Brázdil, will be prepared, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u12	Mr President, colleagues. I would just like to clarify what Mr Adamec said. I sell pressure bottles. I sell both propane and technical gases. It doesn't matter to the customer, because the pressure bottle comes to the seller sealed, comes there with a seal and the customer buys a pressure bottle that is completely safe. Based on who the seller has a contract with - whether company A or B - it guarantees that the medium was filled with a cylinder that meets all the safety parameters. The customer doesn't have to deal with that at all. In ten years of practice, when I sell these bottles, it didn't happen to me that someone would bring a bottle of damaged or torn collar, or even spray the bottle. Oh, my bůh, why would he do that? If he brings a standard pressure bottle, two kilos, ten kilos or ten kilos, I'll just replace it normally. He'll pay for the filling. If someone new comes, I'll sell him the bottle with the packaging, which is normally priced, and it doesn't concern the customer at all. It's another thing for companies that want to do the media. Yes, there may be some kind of agreement, but I haven't noticed a single problem in ten years in selling these bottles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u13	Mr Milan Brázdil will now make a point of fact and Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u14	Thank you for the floor. I confess, I'm a passionate diver. I've been through a lot, and they're also pressure bottles. I would never dare give that bottle to someone who would do something to me, and I didn't know what it was. That bottle is mine, and it matters my life at 60 meters. For air, and if it's deeper, maybe nitrox, air enriched with oxygen, and therefore I can't go so deep and so forth. I'm not going to go into details. [[15.30 hours]] I just didn't understand what the point of this discussion was. The air that I'm getting into, and it's my bottle, I'd probably prefer it too, if the bottle that I bought, I'm also buying it to warm up some outdoor space, and I'm sorry I'm always getting worse, better, better, or poppy, but I don't actually know, Mr. Adamč, colleague, through Mr. President, what were you actually gonna say, because if I needed that bottle of air for diving, I'm not gonna hold onto it, but you're probably gonna say that there's some unfair competition, somebody's not watching the bottle, you're gonna get another one, they're not holding the guarantee. Please, I didn't understand, and don't take me - I listened carefully, and if you explain it to me, I'll be glad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u15	Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Marian Jurečka, will now speak on the point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. It's very simple. Unlike that pressure bottle of yours, which is yours, and you're going to fill it up and keep an eye on it, so it's different here. Here you buy a bottle somewhere in the store, you exhaust it, and then you go to a store that offers not the sale of the bottles, but the exchange. And that's the problem, because those bottles belong to someone else, that's not your bottle anymore. These belong to individual companies that are active here on the market, there are still privatization bottles that are unmarked, so actually there is a big problem, they change owners according to me very quickly, and the problem does not arise in the store, it arises then in the fillers, where they simply drag the bottles, because the fillers to which the bottles belong do not want the bottles to be filled with the same gas. And that's the problem, because someone's delivering those bottles to those companies, they need to sort out. It's like a fellow Pávek here said, separate the bottles from the gas. And that's more complicated because unlike the beer bottles that you hand over at the store and they take them somewhere where they clean them up and use them again and most beer bottles are even different in shape, so they know exactly which brewery it belongs to, that's not the problem, so here the bottles are all the same and separate themselves only with brands, colors and the like, and these problems are there. I really didn't want to read the explanatory report here, where there's a whole series of cases and dealt with the ÚOHS, dealt with the inspection, there's problems, there's disputes. I think there's another problem. Unlike a beer bottle, someone has to keep this bottle in working order, which means they have to have revisions, they have to comply with the technical standards on which it is built. So here's the problem, not that it's not. There's a problem. If he wasn't here, we wouldn't be talking about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u17	Mr. Jiří Kohoutek will now appear and Mr. Petr Dolínek will be prepared. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would read and introduce you to my four amendments. 6053: "1. 2: The fee rate in the electronics sector is set to cover the costs of the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities, and amounts to CZK 1.70 per month for each demand point of the electricity collector's customer. 2. in § 17d para. 3 reads: The rate of the fee in the gas sector is set to cover the costs of the Energy Regulatory Authority's activities and amounts to CZK 1,0 per month for each demand point of the gas collector'. 3. In Article 17d (1) of the Treaty on The annual amount of the fee shall be fixed as a multiple of the rate referred to in paragraph 4. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 7 (2) and the total number of demand points for electricity customers for the electricity sector and as a multiple of the rate referred to in paragraph 1. 3 and the total number of gas demand points for the gas industry, as indicated at 31. 12., transmitted to the market operator's system operators in the Czech Republic for the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which the draft budget chapter is established The Energy Regulatory Authority for the following financial year, for which electricity market participants and gas market participants pay the price for the clearing of the market operator in accordance with the price rules. 4. In Article 17d (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 5 reads: Total number of customers' electricity collection points and total number of customers' gas collection points in the Czech Republic according to para. 4 The Energy Regulatory Authority shall publish by 30 June of the calendar year in the form of a communication in the Collection of Laws. Justification: Its main objective is to unify and simplify the calculation and collection of fees for the activities of the Energy Regulatory Authority from electricity and gas users, which would result in a reduction in energy prices for their final consumer.' The complete justification is in the system, and I will not read it any further. Second amendment - 6176: "In Part One, Art. 1 after point 8, the following point 9 is inserted: The third sentence of paragraph 5 is deleted. The following amendment points shall be numbered." It is a similar amendment that my colleague Ivan Adamec withdrew. The reason is in the system because it's a little bit longer. The third amendment - 8179: "The first sentence of paragraph 19 reads: I § 19a para. The following point 54 is inserted after point 53: [[2.]] (x) read: To select from a gas market participant or foreign natural or legal person the price for the service of the cross-border use of the gas storage tank determined in accordance with § 19a para. 3 and pay it to the transmission system operator when a cross-border gas storage service has been provided to a gas storage facility participant or foreign natural or legal person by the gas storage facility operator. 3. The following point 54 is inserted: I the following point 139, is inserted after point 138: Article 4 (1) (a) (i) insert a new point 15 which reads: rules and conditions for the provision of a cross-border gas storage service.'; 4. The following amendment points are numbered. Justification: Point 1 is a legislative technical correction, Section 19 was repealed in the Energy Act. The amendment reached in point 2 of the proposal gives the wording of the proposed section 60 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (x) in accordance with the proposed text of § 19a para. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue entered in Item 6 0 3 of the statement of revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with points (a) and (b) of Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Of which: Non-financial corporations - Non-financial corporations - Non-financial corporations Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 NC TAR shows that if a network user uses a cross-border gas storage service to transfer gas to a neighbouring market zone, he is entitled to a discount from the transmission tariff for gas storage points, currently according to the ERO price decision, it is a discount of 70 per cent from the tariff. The difference between the discounted and non-priced price for gas transport services to be paid by the network user to the transmission system operator is in the proposed version of Section 19a para. 3 defined as the price for the service of the cross-border use of the gas storage tank. Therefore, the amount to be paid by the gas storage device operator to the transmission system operator pursuant to Section 60 (1) (b) must also correspond to this amount. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. x), otherwise the discount compensation would not have been reached. Point 3 following the proposed modification of the cross-border use service of the gas storage tank, regulation on the need to adequately complement the authorisation of the Energy Regulatory Authority for the issuance of the gas market rules decree so that the provision of this service can be fully integrated into the gas market model, adjusted in the necessary detail at the level of the implementing regulation. [[15.40 hours]] And the last amendment under number 8180: "In point 28 after point (x), we add point (i) which reads: In the case of a gas storage tank enabling the service of cross-border use of the gas storage tank to ensure the measurement of gas at and out of this gas storage tank, including the evaluation and addition of these data, together with the aggregated daily states of the gas storage account for each market zone to the market operator and transmission system operator. Point 39 shall read: in the first part of Article 1, point 126 shall read: 126. In Article 91, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 10 (c) the text "u' is replaced by "y'. Reason. The adaptation set out in point 1 of this proposal ensures the practical implementation of Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The adaptation of paragraph 39, paragraph 2 of this proposal is of a legislative technical nature in relation to the addition of points (i) to point 28. Thank you for your attention. Then I will join them in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u19	Mr Marian Jurečka will now appear and Mr Petr Pávek will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u20	Thank you. Good afternoon. Mr President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I am coming to an amendment to the Energy Act, to which not only citizens are looking for solutions to the issue of energy scumbags, but also to this law the eyes of people who are moving in the energy sector, whether they are producers, distributors, providers of various other support services, but also look to it with some hope, too, for those who are in the field of science and research in the Czech Republic, who are innovative companies, and because they see a great opportunity here, they could not only move themselves, but also move the whole Czech Republic a little further. I also come here with my proposals to help this government implement its own programming statement, because when I took over the government's programming statement today, I turned to page 32, opened a chapter that concerns industry and trade, so here I will quote one paragraph about what the government wants to do in this area: "In the field of energy, ensuring energy security, self-sufficiency, environmentally friendly and competitive and socially cost-effective electricity and heat prices and their smooth and secure supply to all customers is a crucial priority for us in terms of energy. The generation of electricity will be ensured by a mix of resources based on the growing share of nuclear energy and renewables and, on the contrary, a gradual decrease in production in coal power plants. We will ensure the preparation of the construction of new nuclear units according to a valid update of the state energy concept, including the definition of the model of financing and construction at the necessary dates, as well as the construction of the deep permanent storage of radioactive waste. We will support reducing the energy performance of public and private buildings by heating, using energy-efficient technologies and appliances, decentral renewables and smart energy projects such as smart regions, smart cities, smart networks and smart households." It continues with one more paragraph, which I will not read whole, but I will read from it the second part and a very important sentence: "For new renewable sources, we will primarily support local production of electricity or heat with as much consumption or accumulation as possible at the site of production, i.e. without further operating subsidies. We will maintain the existing mining limits of brown coal" and so on. So I think there are a lot of reasonable things that are defined here. This means a clear commitment by the government to develop and support renewables in the context of our energy mix and, of course, the part that is logical that if we want to develop renewables in the Czech Republic, this means, above all, the potential of photovoltaic panels and their generation of electricity, it simply cannot be without accumulation. I come to this press, this amendment to the Energy Act, with two amendments. The one amendment, such a larger one, is just about that part of the accumulation. This means that there is an effort to introduce into our energy law what has been missing in it for several years, and that is precisely the question of accumulation so that our legislation does not only know this concept, but it has been able to deal with the conditions under which the accumulation can be realized, who holds the licence, what rights it has, what obligations it has, or what questions arise in the case of payments for supported resources and so on. I have already submitted this proposal on the floor of the Economic Committee, where after discussion with the Ministry of Industry and Trade we have come to the conclusion that there are still some things that need to be discussed on expert platforms. Then we also addressed this, and here I would like to thank the Minister and Deputy Minister Neděl for several on-line round tables, which we led with representatives of the energy sector not only of renewable sources, but also of representatives representing the heat sector, and we were looking for a solution how to adjust the definition and how to finalize the legislative proposal to suit it. I think it went well after the debates. That is why I am loading this proposal for this House press today. Let me give you a few more reasons for why and what situation we're in today. Let me just remind you that in 2015 the government of the Czech Republic clearly stated in its state energy concept that it is necessary to enable the development of the accumulation system in electricity. I was a member of the government then, I supported this concept. I think it is important that it is implemented, even though there are many circumstances that have changed, and there are many things that need to be updated and adapted by the government and the state, as well as strategic documents in this area. There is also a National Action Plan for Smart Networks, which was drawn up in December 2017, which clearly talks about the need to make the rules for accumulation legally anchored, and this should happen in the subsequent amendment to the Energy Act, and this is happening now. Since 2017, they've been here for almost four years, a long time. So what we're trying to do here is to widen the possibility that today it's possible to have that flashlight, or that accumulation, just in a situation where the operator combines it with a photovoltaic power plant or with an existing power plant, and we want to expand the flexibility so that it can be used, the accumulation, even in other cases within the transmission system. We can also see on the pre-applications that have been submitted to the modernisation fund that there is a great taste not only of private private sector, not only of current large energy players, but also of many municipal projects that would like to use the combination of their own buildings that are owned by the community, of buildings that are owned by the business sector, and to look for ways to optimize it, of the production system, of the very flashlight. So all of this would be dealt with in the future by having this legislation here. I would like our legislation not to be a few horse lengths behind here, but when we see how technological innovation progress is here, so that we can allow companies in the legislative environment of the Czech Republic to have such an opportunity that companies that produce batteries and develop in our country have a huge export potential so that they can say: We have it at home, you can come to us, we have tens, hundreds of installed projects that will be examples of good practice. And that doesn't work. So let's move this over, let's change it so that there's really 21st-century energy, which combines a lot of benefits for society, possible reductions and costs, which then count on consumer prices for final households, and so on. So this is the subject of this amendment under House document 8493. Of course, I will join him in a detailed debate, and I would like to support him for the reasons that I have appointed here. I could say a whole bunch of other reasons. I feel that time is also pushing us, so I do not want to extend this debate extremely, but please nicely, let us really look at the fact that we are not looking at energy through the optics of a century of steam, but with the optics of the 21st century and the technological possibilities that we have today. [[15.50 hours]] The second proposal, which I am giving, concerns the addition of what already includes, on the one hand, the government material, the original ministerial draft, which dealt with the solution of energy-smugglers. A colleague Patrik Nacher worked very hard on it. I took the liberty of putting another supplementary amendment here to address the question of the parameters of claims for what the energy intermediary should have, that is, someone who represents consumers, who is responsible for the terms of the contract, so that there is a guarantee that these people will really be qualified, that it will be people who will not have the tendency to screw consumers up, bring them into complex situations. So what I'm trying to define here is that this person has some parameters of some minimum standards of education, that is, medium technical education completed or university, so that there are clearly defining parameters of minimum practice, that is, that we really eliminate people who come into this sector only with the aim of selling at all costs a product that is often disadvantageous to consumers, often significantly disadvantageous, causing for them a lot of complications in personal life, and the way we've dealt with here in the past in other sectors of scumbags, we've been dealing with scumbags who have broken the rules in the area of building sales, consumer credit sales, and so on, to make a shift in the solution to this issue and issues in the field of energy market and energy law. I'll take the last comment on the margo debate on the bottles. I think we really need to have an optics that distinguishes the propane-butane bottle and a bottle of special destination for divers, for the medical and other sectors, but just today, when we look at the fact that the propane-butane bottle sector is quite unstandard and not entirely logically bound by the current legislative regulation that has been put there in the past more or less on the basis of a certain lobbying, so if we want to talk about simplifying the business environment in the Czech Republic, we want to have liberal, open market conditions here, so Adamec's proposal here gives me logic to simply make it possible. As far as the standards of the technical quality of the bottles are concerned today, even if the bottles are rotating, they must be in good condition after a certain period of time. All this legislation can treat, we simply will not create room here for the monopoly of a few companies, but we will give room for small, medium-sized companies to function relatively well in the environment, and of course more competition, a larger market environment also contributes to the price reduction for final customers. So, personally, I am asking for the support of this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u21	I now have one factual point here, Mr Jiří Bláha, and Mr Petr Pávek will prepare himself. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u22	Dear colleagues, I'm glad we're talking about scumbags here. I am glad that the Minister of Industry and the Minister of the Environment is here, because both of them are involved, and I would like to ask that when we come up with subsidization projects to support energy, such as solar now, that means that solar power plants are being built on rooftops, I would only need us to realize that those companies that are trading in the Czech Republic are taking incredibly advantage of it. Today's kilowatt-peak installed on the roof is more expensive than nine years ago when I bought my solar power plant for my own. So just to let you know how not only electric scumbags behave, but large multinational companies that are not ashamed to sell to us, Czech citizens, installation on the roof at a far more expensive price than they were nine years ago. It would be good for us to deal with this, really move it forward, and not allow these things to happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u23	Mr Petr Pávek will now appear and Mr Petr Dolínek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u24	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. I have resolved my dilemma with the withdrawal of Ivan Adamec's amendment by simply adopting it and simply loading it here, I have it here, thank you. So I'm just applying to him. I expressed my reasons in a factual point, so as not to delay, this is House document 7436 and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u25	Mr Petr Dolínek, Mr. Petr Dolínek, will now make his final application to the general debate. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u26	Thank you. I have two amendments. The first concerns gas storage tanks. This is about making part of the first Article. I added a new point 92 after paragraph 91, which reads: "In Section 60 (1) (h), to buy gas to cover its own losses in the gas storage tank or for its own consumption or to create and maintain the basic filling of the gas storage tank, to sell gas to the extent of the obligations imposed by this law and to purchase and sell gas for the purpose of providing the gas storage service in the quantity provided for by the implementing legislation, this is not considered to be a gas trade'. Paragraph 98a (2) (i) is also newly inserted, paragraph 15, which reads: "The quantity of gas that the storage facility operator is entitled to buy or sell for the purpose of providing gas storage services'. The points are getting out of hand. The reason is as follows: The proposed amendment will allow the offer of gas storage services that will be available to customers in the Czech Republic. The current wording of the Energy Act does not, by its narrow definition, allow the provision of services which are used, inter alia, in Germany or Slovakia. This is, for example, the possibility of offering storage capacity at the beginning of the winter period, transported including gas, if the customer did not have the opportunity to store gas in the reservoir during the summer. There is no justification for such a restriction on the supply of services. The proposed text is in accordance with European legislation, in particular the EC 73/2009 Directive on common rules for the internal market and for natural gas and Regulation 715/2009 EC on conditions for access to gas transmission systems. Gas storage is provided in the Czech Republic on a market principle and sufficient storage capacity in the territory of our Republic is important for ensuring security of gas supply. The State does not own any strategic gas reserves and the availability of storage capacity in the Czech Republic is not guaranteed by the State. The proposed adjustment is therefore intended to support the functioning of the market for storage services, which is fully exposed to market pressures and increasing foreign competition. Then I have a second proposal, which was discussed on the Economic Committee. After discussing the committee, I reworked it with colleagues and experts and it concerns something rather different. It relates to the following thing being added there, which is called: "The intermediary activity in the energy sectors is no longer..." There is deliberately a negative definition, because, as you know, both in this law and in the Electronic Communications Act and elsewhere, we are trying to protect consumers as much as possible against the energy industry and all similar unfair phenomena. But on the other hand, these things are often so written in good faith that unfortunately some things that belong to the normal business environment are falling out or are being prevented at the moment. Therefore, I say here what is not an intermediary activity: " (a) the occasional provision of information on electricity or gas supply contracts or contracts for combined electricity or gas supply services, within another professional activity, and (b) the mere provision of general information on electricity or gas supply contracts or contracts for combined electricity or gas supply services or similar information on licence holders or intermediaries, provided that the purpose of such an activity is not to assist the conclusion or performance of an electricity or gas supply contract or contract for combined electricity or gas supply services.' I dare to justify it, because, as I say, on the Economic Committee, it was not completely understood. Even Deputy Director Neděla originally expressed his views on this, I believe that this text was also slightly communicated with the Ministry and makes sense because the amendment aims to ensure compliance with the already effective legal regulation of mediation in other areas. We must realise that this regulation is indeed already in place in other areas and is mentioned in the law. This means that if we want to regulate something here, but not forbid it, it's right, because we're making a similar adjustment as in other cases. The amendment unites the regulation of intermediary activities with already established regulation of this activity in other areas, in particular in the field of consumer credit and insurance and reinsurance. Regulation in these areas contains where it is practically necessary. An exception to certain activities whose purpose is not directly to facilitate the negotiation, amendment or termination of a contract is therefore not justified in order to be subject to a prohibition or very strict regulation of mediation. The exemption therefore aims at the occasional provision of information in the performance of another professional activity and for so-called tips, which consists merely of the provision of general information on products, or in the general investigation of the potential interest of the customer in the possible negotiation of a contract and the subsequent transmission of contact to the customer by the intermediary or consumer credit or insurance or reinsurance provider. [[16.00 hours]] I'd like to say that, for example, it's about the person who's a real estate agent, and he's gonna sell you a cottage, he probably knows the location better than you do, so he knows very well who provides gas, electricity and other things, and he could actually tell you who's the provider there. You then give him your consent, that yes, that you want to contact this provider when you choose it, and it could have happened. That means he can even mention it. If it wasn't there, maybe the real estate service isn't complete, because he's actually gonna sell you the real estate and he can't even advise you or tell you how to negotiate an energy contract there. The wording of the amendment is based on a similar exception to the regulation of brokering activities enshrined in Act 257/2016 Coll., on Consumer Credit, and in Act 170/2018 Coll., on the distribution of insurance and reinsurance. These areas have in common with energy distribution that the consumer is threatened by the possible use of unfair commercial practices when submitting offers or concluding contracts with intermediaries or service suppliers. The purpose of regulating this activity is the same in these areas: to protect consumers, but at the same time to enable them to draw on services. The draft amendment therefore also provides for a similar exemption from the authorisation of this activity in the energy sectors from the ERU for certain types of entities that inform consumers only in general of the offers to conclude a contract and thus increase their awareness, where appropriate, of products that only tip the interested party whether he should or would not be interested in concluding or discussing similar contracts with the provider. The aim is therefore to clarify the definition of mediation so that regulation does not unduly affect an activity for which it is undesirable. I shall conclude, Mr rapporteur, the last sentence. The change is in line with the aim of the amendment to suppress the practices of energy scumbags as far as possible, but not limit the possible business of other entities. Thank you for your patience, but I think that this is where the border is rather thin in the law, which is why I tried to explain that it is not about protecting unfair practices, but about allowing service from some entrepreneurs or entities working in this area to offer full service to their clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u27	Thank you. Good afternoon. Let's keep going. First, I'm going to introduce the House to a note. Mr Výborný apologies to us today from 15 to 17.30 due to negotiations in the Senate. At this point, I do not see and have no further applications for the general debate, so if no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in the final words after the general debate? It's not. In that case, there has not been a proposal which we should now vote on, and I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that all the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must be justified. Mr Pustějovskýějovský is the first to be logged in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u28	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to sign up for the amendment that is being held as a House document under number 7674. This is a shift in the effectiveness of the provisions that regulate mediation by six months compared to the effectiveness of the entire law. It's in agreement with the Energy Regulatory Authority. I would also like to sign up for the amendment, which is conducted as House document under number 8323, and this is a technical specification in line with the broader definition of redispensation. In the Directive, the amendment to Section 26 will not apply exclusively to renewable energy sources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u29	Thank you and now Mr Kohoutek, Mr Jurečka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for my four amendments. The first is under number 6053, second 6176, third 8179 and fourth 8180. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Jurečka, Mr Rakušan will be prepared. I do not see Mr Jurečka in the hall at the moment, so I will push forward in the end, as I do not see Mr Rakušan. Mr. Jurečka has arrived, he must wait his turn. So Mr. Pávek now, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u32	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, Minister, I would like to sign up for the adopted amendment, which is being conducted in the system under number 7436. The main reason is consistent unbundling policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Dolínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u34	I therefore submit to the amendment under press number 7996. This concerns the already mentioned possibilities of extending the supply of gas storage services. And then I report to the proposal under number 7677, which concerns, as I have already mentioned, the occasional provision of information in another professional activity in which consumers are solely dependent on the intermediary or directly on the licence holder, if these consumers themselves show an interest in the conclusion of the contract, and a general determination of the customer's interest in the negotiation, intention or termination of the contract and subsequent transmission of contact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u35	Thank you, Mr Jurečka, and Mr Rakušan is ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u36	Thank you. As I said in the general debate, I am now reporting in detail to two amendments. The first one that concerns the issue of accumulation, and this is House number 8493, and then the second amendment, which also concerns the adjustment of the requirements of the intermediary, is the amendment under number 8497. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u37	Thank you, and now, Mr Rakušan, at this moment, as the last to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u38	Thank you, Mr President. In contrast to the general debate, I will only apply to five amendments, because two of them are accepted by the committee and are included in the committee's proposal, namely the House prints Nos 7384, 7385, 7386, 7387 and 7389. I gave reasons in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-26-ps2017-104-02-004-010.u39	Yes, thank you. These were all written applications for a detailed debate, and if no one else is reporting from the point of view, and I really do not see anyone, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words by the appellant or the rapporteur after a detailed debate? It's not like that. There have been no proposals that we should vote on at this time, or at least I don't know about them, so I am ending the second reading of this press and this item. And let's move on to point number
