ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u1	3. Proposal for a Law on the Collection of Laws of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and Certain Administrative Offices /House print 575/5/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to us as House press 575/6. I welcome Senator Petr Holeček among us and I ask that the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek, instead of Vice-President Jan Hamáček Government of the Interior, speak for the plaintiff of the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u2	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to apologize to Minister Jan Hamáček, who cannot attend and present this proposal here today due to medical indisposition. Well, I'm sorry again, and let me at least say the opening word that should be heard here. Last year, the Chamber of Deputies discussed and approved the draft Act on the Collection of Laws of Territorial Self-governance and Certain Administrations, but now returns rejected by the Senate. Let me just briefly remind you of the content and maybe comment on the objections raised on the Senate's soil. I will therefore remind you that the aim of the proposal is to create an information system in which official and legally binding texts of legislation issued by municipalities and regions, as well as administrative authorities with limited territorial scope, whose legislation is not published in the Collection of Laws, will be available to everyone. I will remind you that the information system will be operated by the Ministry of the Interior -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. It's no longer hearing what the Minister's telling us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u4	Yes, I'll make this as brief as possible. This proposal was prepared by the Ministry because the current system is not functional, it does not meet the requirements of the 21st century, and the Constitutional Court has also repeatedly pointed it out. Unfortunately, the texts of the regulations to be published by municipalities on their website under the law cannot play the role of the official full source, neither completeness nor topicality is guaranteed. So that's why this initiative. I would like to stress that the new method of publication of legislation will not be associated with any increase in administrative complexity for its originator, nor will it require any higher computer literacy than the performance of others, for the municipalities of common agendas. It is only proposed to replace the obligation to send the published legislation to the supervisory authority to declare this regulation in the Collection of Laws. From a technical point of view, the obligation will be fulfilled in the same way as before, which means through a data box. The Ministry of the Interior also expects a methodology to be developed to provide a simple guide to the municipality before starting the collection with an information campaign. The collection of legislation offers, without increasing claims on self-government, considerable added value for citizens as well as for municipalities and regions themselves. They will be able to rely on the fact that they will find all the relevant legislation of municipalities and regions on the Internet at any time and anywhere on the Internet in the current authentic version, so that it will not be possible for them to find, for example, the text of the decree, whose compliance with them could then be enforced. I would therefore like to ask for a vote in favour of the proposed legislation, as the House has already approved it once. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u5	Thank you, Minister. And please let Senator Petr Holeček take the floor. You have your word, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank the honourable Member, my lords, the honourable Government, for the opportunity to speak in the Grand Chamber for the senators and senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The bill was delivered to the Senate on 24 November and was assigned to two committees - the Committee on Public Administration and the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee and Constitutional Law Committee. The guarantee committee recommended the Senate to reject the bill, the constitutional law committee recommended the Senate to adopt the proposal as amended by the amendments. The Senate discussed the bill at its 3rd meeting on 16 December and the result of this discussion was the rejection of that law. In order to reject this proposal, by the way, there were 47 of the 69 Senators and Senators present, only 6 opposed the rejection. The senators rejected the bill for the following two reasons. First, from the point of view of need. We have nothing against the information system, but the current system, when municipalities register decrees, is very functional. That means we talked about whether the law is necessary or unnecessary, and we agreed that the law is unnecessary. This means that if the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic wishes to issue a national overview of generally binding decrees, there is nothing to prevent it. All decrees are available by law in the current version and municipalities generally have binding decrees on their website. When we asked the Minister, who argued that the decrees were not on the community's website, we asked him which municipalities might not have on the website of the decree, he could not answer us. Secondly, we rejected the law in terms of constitutionality, and I would say that was the main reason why we voted in favour of it. It is quite clear that the non-constitutional expiry of existing legislation, in particular the generally binding decrees, is an atp opinion. The obligation that legislation issued before the date of entry into force of this Act should be published in the Collection of Laws no later than three years and that any failure to comply with this obligation is accompanied by a statutory penalty consisting of the expiry of the legislation by the expiry of the period of three years. [[17.10 hours]] The proposer therefore essentially presents a general and automatic, albeit conditional, derogation mechanism. In doing so, the Constitution provides for the guarantee of the self-governing of administrative units, the characteristic of which is, inter alia, the power to issue generally binding decrees within the limits of its competence. This means that we consider this to be unconstitutional and Senate legislation has confirmed this to us. However, due to the constitutional guarantee of the right to self-government, honourable Members, it is not possible to make the laws of the local authorities subject to any additional ingence of the state authority following their approval. Such a conclusion is also supported by the fact that, from the point of view of constitutional order, the validity of the decree is not even conditional upon its publication, which can be deduced from the Constitution of our country. The proposed legislation also gives enormous scope to possible abuse, where the Ministry of the Interior can in extreme cases absolutely outside the legal mechanism of administrative supervision actually decide whether or not the legislation of the local authorities will be valid. For these two reasons, Madam Members, the Senate has proposed the rejection of this law, and I am presenting this rejection to you here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, Senator, and I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee - that was the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development - Mr Jaroslav Kytýr, if he wishes to comment. She doesn't want to comment, so I am opening up a debate. Anyone reporting for the debate? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. There is no interest in the final words either the Minister or the Senator, so we will proceed to the vote. We shall vote in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, that is to say, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the resolution. We have the necessary number already set. I will wait a while, in accordance with the agreements, for all Members to have the opportunity to come to the Chamber, and in the meantime, I will make a motion for a resolution. The resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on the Collection of Laws of Territorial Self-governing Bodies and certain Administrations pursuant to House Press 575/5." We are ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 23, 172 Members voted in favour of 146, against 12. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you, Mr. Senator, thank you to the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. There's a point number in front of us.
