ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u1	530. Government information on events in Vrbětice in 2014 That's the point we just put in. This is government information, the Prime Minister should be the first to speak... So the Prime Minister is at a press conference at the moment, I'm having a brief recess, but I'm asking the chairman of the club, Faltýnek, to put everything on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have information from the Prime Minister and Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček that they're on their way, they're downstairs. I'll ask for a break of a maximum duration of 10 minutes. I'm sorry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u3	So 10 minutes and we'll continue with 14.54.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u4	The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, is 14.54, with priority rights the President of Chvojka is reporting. He has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u5	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I am so sorry, but I would like another 10 minutes break for the ČSSD MP club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u6	I'll grant the request. We'll continue at 15.05 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u7	The honourable Member, honourable Members, is 15.05, and we will continue with the adjourned negotiations. I have already opened paragraph 530, Information of the Government on events in Vrbetice in 2014, and I will ask Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies of all the steps our government has taken in the case of the Vrbětice case, which we are discussing here today. On 6 April 2021, early in the morning, I was asked by the Director of the Security Information Service to convene the Intelligence Committee, which I immediately did, and the Committee meeting on 7 April 2021 at 7 a.m. We have received oral information on this committee for the first time and we have been shown presentations relating to the present case. We didn't receive any written documents. I received a written comprehensive final report informing us of a reasonable suspicion of the involvement of the Russian secret service GRU in the terrorist attack in Vrbetice, personally from the Security Information Service on Friday 16 April 2021 in 16.54, which I also marked on the document, and immediately after receiving and reading the material I called together all responsible members of the government, heads of intelligence services, representatives of the Police and the State Attorney's Office, and we discussed this matter immediately. At the same time, I immediately contacted the President's area and asked for a meeting, which he also met us immediately. On Saturday at 4:00 p.m., I informed Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček of the situation and of the steps we wanted or wanted to take. The President has expressed his full support. He fully supported the proposed procedure. Immediately on Saturday, after negotiations with the President of the Republic, we immediately approached - first the Deputy Prime Minister invited the Russian Ambassador - and we proceeded to expel 18 Russian embassy employees who were proven to be GRU or SVR agents by the intelligence services. It must be realized that this is an unprecedented step on our part, recently Poland has expelled four diplomats, Italy two, Germany and Sweden one by one and the United States ten. We expelled these agents the most. On Sunday, we made it clear that Rosatom would not participate in the construction of Dukovan, and yesterday, the government unanimously approved it. Since the explosion in Vrbětice was in 2014 and now we're in 2021, I asked Mr. Koudelka's Director of Security Information Services to uncover the information we received. The Security Service and the law enforcement authorities have stated that it is currently impossible to disclose information, and therefore the Supreme Attorney Pavel Zeman and the director of NCOZ Mr Mazánek publicly disclosed all the information that can now be published, following our request for a meeting with the Government yesterday. So this was the result of our negotiations, and the maximum possible disclosure was made by the authorities in criminal proceedings. At the same meeting of the Government, the Attorney General Pavel Zeman stated that, legally speaking, it was not an act of state terrorism against the Czech Republic, and it is a statement of the highest-ranking body active in criminal proceedings. That is why I quoted him at the press conference, even though, of course, we politicians are talking - and I was also talking - about a terrorist attack. Mostly I did it because I'm being written by citizens and scared. We really do not want any war, and we wanted to reassure Czech citizens who were afraid of where this incident could lead us and our country. So I'm just repeating that the target of the attack, and I repeated what the Attorney General said, that it was material intended for transport to Bulgaria. The same was confirmed by the National Headquarters against organized crime and BIS, and both NCOZ and BIS are, of course, professionals who are recognized worldwide. [[15.10 hours]] Yesterday at the press conference, I used the statement that it was an attack on the goods. I am, of course, very sorry, and a moment ago I apologized at a press conference that it sounded awful. I'm sorry. And it was, of course, a statement that the media immediately ripped out, and immediately it was the main message. Of course, I'm sorry because I didn't mean it. Sorry about that. Of course it was about lives, especially lives. And it was, of course, a disgusting and totally unacceptable terrorist act in which two of our people died, so it is clear that this act is unacceptable. We responded, I'm sure the Deputy Prime Minister will inform you of the next meeting with the Russian ambassador tomorrow afternoon. And it is clear that the statements made by the Russian media that are distorting the situation do not speak of the attack at all. It's like an assassination in Salisbury, where they spent a novice, but then they invited the same agents on Russian television and they pretended to be tourists and went to see the cathedral. So two Czech citizens died, I am deeply sorry. There's been a great deal of damage. Of course, we, the Treasury Department, are preparing a lawsuit to recover this damage. So, of course, thank you to all those who understand, who support the Czech Republic. We have now discussed with the Vice Prime Minister on further action towards the Russian Federation, because the expulsion of 20 of our diplomats is unacceptable. The Czech Republic has done nothing, on the contrary, agents, Russian agents have operated on our territory. Absolutely unacceptable, unprecedented, which is why we responded. An unprecedented attack that took place on the territory of our sovereign state. So, of course, we inform our allies, we move forward, and we need the whole world to realize that we will not allow anyone to violate our sovereignty in this way and threaten the safety and life of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u9	Thank you. I will ask Vice-President Petr Fiala to take the floor. Since this was a point that suggested the inclusion of the grémium, I ask you whether you would also take up the position of rapporteur. [[No.]] I see. So, please, you have the floor. In any case, we will have to find a suitable rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, we have proposed since Sunday that this information and this serious subject become the first item of today's House of Deputies' meeting. I am pleased, and I would like to thank you for taking this up by all the political parties, for finding a consensus on this, and that this is a proposal from the Gremium that we are actually dealing with this fundamental issue today. It's a fundamental thing, it's a completely unusual thing, and it's a thing that deserves our utmost attention. There was a terrorist attack on the territory of the Czech Republic by members of the security forces of another state, i.e. the Russian Federation. This attack resulted in two human lives and damage for billions of crowns. Something like this has not happened in the modern history of the Czech Republic. Something like this hasn't happened in decades, and we would hardly be looking for a similar case in Europe. It is a time when, or when, I would like all of us to proceed together, to defend together security, sovereignty and the international position of the Czech Republic regardless of internal policy positions. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's all that matters, that's all that's being played these days and hours. I'm just not sure when I see the government's first reaction, I see what's been happening here since Saturday, whether this consistent common position is really possible. We were here in the first hours and days that we all had this information, what it was published, witnessing such a strange farce, when the Prime Minister and Prime Minister first called a press conference in the middle of the weekend, so that they couldn't agree on what they were going to say to the public in the next few hours, since they had the information, when they first heard the information, whether it was Friday or last month, as it's coming out. I'm glad the Prime Minister said one date here, if I listened well, he said he had the information from April 6th, I'll get back to that. Our country is dealing with the shocking information we've known since Saturday, and I'd like to make three comments on that. Firstly, it is necessary, and I really beg the government, to call on the government to stop any downside, downgrade, or search for various alternate concepts of what has happened here. I thought it was completely inappropriate and unacceptable for Prime Minister Babiš to say that it was an attack on goods or anything like that, and I'm glad I heard that, and I'm glad the Prime Minister here took those words back and apologized for them. We need to be clear, and I think we should all say that this was an act of state terrorism. That's an absolute possibility, and that's what we need to name this thing. That's not a legal term, ladies and gentlemen. That's a political term, and it's a possible term. A foreign country has carried out an armed, violent act on the territory of another state. A terrorist act according to all the definitions of terrorism, which we have available not only in professional literature, but also on the website of the Ministry of the Interior. Anyone can look it up. [[15.20 hours]] And why state terrorism? Not because it was done against the state or any society, every terrorist act is aimed primarily at the state and its weakening, but because it was done by the state, and that is something unique, that is unacceptable, that is something in today's Europe until recently even hard to imagine. And we need to name it that way to realize that when a state is ready to do this kind of violent action in another state, whatever those targets are, it's an extreme danger. It is an extreme danger to the Czech Republic, it is an extreme danger to the whole of Europe, and it is necessary for the Czech Republic to act accordingly, and I do not think that this is happening fully. That brings me to my second point. There is a need to clarify the circumstances that are still hazy, but this is the government's fault, information on how the members of the government have learned this information. We've been hearing data here, we've learned it on Friday, we've known it since April 7th, now the Prime Minister has made it clear that he learned it on April 6th, but so far everyone has said something different. It doesn't matter, it's not trivial information, because it has something to do with what happened in the meantime. Let us remember how Russia or Russia's companies were invited to advance the Dukovany tender. Yes, that happened at the end of March, but Vice Prime Minister Havlíček was vehemently defending this place at the time, when at least Prime Minister Babiš, as he told us, had information about what was happening and what is the role of Rusko in the explosions in Vrbětice. Let us remember the sudden appeal of Minister Petříček, who, in all my reservations to him, openly and publicly opposed Russian influence in the Czech Republic, whether Russia's admission to the completion of Dukovan or the use of uncertified Russian vaccines. Just to remind you that Minister Petříček was dismissed on 12 April, six days after the key government officials had information about the serious fact that Russia had committed a violent act - state terrorism - and that it had to be clear to the members of the government that this would have international political consequences and that foreign policy would have to address this. And yet the Foreign Minister has been called off, and the resort is actually only occupied on a provisional basis. Is that a responsible policy? Did you know that? I don't know. And remember also the ridiculous interpretation of the planned journey of the Minister of the Interior and the provisional Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček to Moscow. That also needs to be explained, the explanations in quotation marks that sound in public space are completely untrustworthy, and we simply cannot afford that in this serious security situation. Minister Hamáček is a top politician, Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, Minister of the Interior, Minister of Foreign Affairs, so I don't suppose he's playing any intelligence games here as an agent from some Cold War novel. Those are the questions that come up here. These are serious questions, it would be good for the government to clarify them and stop shooting into public space various dates and interpretations of how it was. In connection with the events that have taken place here in the last three weeks and which I have described here, it really sheds a strange light on government policy. Thirdly, a consistent information and diplomatic offensive must be triggered by the solidarity action of the allies. A responsible government would do everything in its power to ensure that the actions of our allies from the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance come as quickly as possible and are consistent, and that requires a diplomatic offensive to begin, more consistently and intensively, asking our allies to stand up for us. Minister Hamáček said that he asked representatives of European Union countries to take steps diplomatically, i.e. the termination of diplomats, solidarity action, actions that would actually correspond to how the European Union responded to the request of Great Britain in the event of an attack on Mr Skripal. Our current foreign minister Jan Hamáček said he did it, they didn't understand it or they didn't understand it. Of course, it could be a smile on your lips, but it's too serious. This cannot be our diplomacy, this cannot be our foreign policy. These steps must be clear, understandable, the Czech Government must do everything possible to show international solidarity not only in some statements, but also in concrete actions. We have every right to ask. It is common, but we must do so accordingly by all channels available to us as a country, diplomatic and other, and request solidarity action, including such actions as a request for an extraordinary European Council summit, which is also not uncommon. All we need to do is act, act competently, act intelligiblely and act so that our allies have a chance and have the opportunity to implement this solidarity action. As I was saying, there are a number of questions that our citizens should be given an answer to. One of them, which I had prepared here, the Prime Minister answered, and for that I am glad, and that is the question of when he actually learned this information. The next question is why the information wasn't published before, because in the meantime, the actions I described were taking place. Or was there any other reason? Or were there any other interests involved? This really requires an explanation. This is an extremely serious matter which concerns the security interests of the Czech Republic and the security of our citizens. I would also like to say that the warning that Russia is acting here in a way that is not normal and not acceptable has been here for a long time. Russian activities on our territory are not news to anyone who follows the public information provided by our intelligence services, not to mention the information that the government undoubtedly has at its disposal. That is the most incomprehensible of some things, such as the very invitation of Russian companies to the preliminary tender for Dukovany, the whole disinformation game around the unapproved Russian vaccine Sputnik and all the similar things that we have witnessed recently. That we have been warned and that we know for a long time that Russia is acting in a way that is unacceptable in our territory, the annual reports of the Security Information Service and those parts that we have publicly available. I will only quote two here: 2015, and I quote: "The distinctive part of Russian intelligence officers was under diplomatic cover of the Russian diplomatic mission, which remained in number very disproportionary to other diplomatic representations, including powers such as the US or the People's Republic of China." End of quote. Quote from the 2017 BIS report: "The size of the Russian diplomatic mission and its high sea level by persons afiled by Russian intelligence services has long led to an increase in the risks associated with the reckless approach of Czech citizens, especially politicians and civil servants, to undisclosed but internal non-public information. Russian activity has continuously focused on influence operations and conscious and unconscious exploitation of Czech resources." End of quote. This is public information and warnings provided by our intelligence services in recent years. The information escalated, the intensity of the warning escalated, and it was clear that Russia was carrying out an activity that was inconsistent with good and friendly relations between two countries. That is why we have repeatedly warned about the strengthening of Russian influence and the actions of the Babišův government that have served to bring Russia to our strategic security infrastructures and could influence the security of the Czech Republic even more significantly than it has done so far. [[15.30 hours]] But, ladies and gentlemen, and this is my last remark, cyber attacks, influence, information war, hybrid war, all that we're experiencing here, and I'm not afraid to say that we're on the front line of a war like this, it's still something other than state terrorism, violent action, the involvement of armed forces of another state in our territory, the action that led to billions of damage, the loss of human lives, the threat to many of our people. This is an unparalleled thing. That is why I also disagree with the Prime Minister's statement, which was said here in his speech, that we have acted very forcefully and that other states have expelled ten, two, five diplomats and we are eighteen. But, Prime Minister, Bulgaria expelled two Russian diplomats in March because of espionage, Italy expelled two Russian diplomats with suspicion of espionage, and Russian diplomats from Washington were expelled in response to the US government's interference with Russia in the presidential elections and cyber attacks against government agencies. This is something completely different from the violent terrorist act the victim of which was the Czech Republic, and this must be in line with our response. And it can't end with us saying it. We have expelled 18 agents - agents with diplomatic passports, you have now expelled 20 Czech diplomats and done, over. It just can't end that way, it's not possible and acceptable. There is a need to take decisive action, in addition to the intensive offensive and diplomatic and allied solidarity, in order for the Czech Republic to act decisively, to compare the number of diplomats in both countries and to proceed decisively and clearly on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sovereign countries. We must protect our security, we must protect our freedom, but we must also protect our international position and we must also protect our self-respect. That's important, and we have to act accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u11	Afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. Mrs Pekarová Adamová will now speak with priority right and Mrs Černochová will prepare herself. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking all those involved in this investigation, whether they are security services, BIS or NCOZ, whoever else. They have a great thank you for bringing convincing evidence, because without them, I don't expect the government to take any action. Therefore, thanks are appropriate and we should be proud to have such services. On the other hand, it is not possible to fully commend the way in which the government is facing the situation today. At that first moment on Saturday evening, the Prime Minister announced in a very shaken voice what had happened, and the Minister of the Interior, the Vice Prime Minister and the Temporary Minister of Foreign Affairs, announced the expulsion of 18 agents and said that this was a very strong move. But when we look at how the Russian party reacted, which we could expect - we all suspect that only reciprocity could come from their side, that they would always exaggerate, the experience of all European states that had ever gotten into any similar, mostly a minor conflict with the Russian side - then I see it as a sort of crossover on the spot and that Saturday's raids had vanished quite a bit. I would like to address exactly how we are supposed to react in my opinion, in the opinion of the TOP 09, and at the same time I would like to not forget the other line, namely the long delay between when the members of the government learned about the attack, the terrorist act, the speech of state terrorism in Vrbetice and when they finally announced the public steps. I think that the government's response, and we all agree that the Russian embassy has been oversized for decades in the Czech Republic, so it should continue and it should continue precisely by evicting other diplomats so that we can finally get an equal representation at the embassy of our countries. It's the only way we can function in a really fair, fair way. It is a great opportunity to take this step, if it has not yet been brave, even on the basis of all the essential information that we had before, whether from our secret services or others, because our partner countries, our allies, have long seen the growing Russian influence that we can observe in the Czech Republic. Now is the right moment to approach these steps and slim the Russian embassy in the Czech Republic. The Czech Embassy in Moscow has already been slimmed and de facto paralyzed. Let's not take it, and let's continue. Furthermore, it is absolutely necessary, and I am sorry that the Minister of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs is not here at this time, because this is the role of the Minister of Foreign Affairs to make more effective use of cooperation within the European Union and NATO. Yesterday, the Council of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the European Union has already discussed this matter. Minister Hamáček claims that he asked for support clearly enough, but clearly failed. It is his failure and should continue to be quite clear in order for a joint response to take place. Let us recall the so often mentioned other attack, which the same two GRU agents carried out in Salisbury, where an attempted murder, which was not completed, was not successful, as in the case of Vrbetic it was finally the account of the human victims of two particular people, but then the British government, British Prime Minister Theresa May, clearly asked for a common position and it happened. There have been concrete steps to expulsion, including from the Czech Republic, then three employees or embassy workers, and this is exactly what we are supposed to achieve. We're supposed to have a reaction like this that should happen in a coordinated way together. And when I compare the act that was here in Vrbetice seven years ago and that was in Salisbury, I think it may be quite obvious that in the case of state terrorism, the act that was responsible for two human lives and the threat of thousands of others here, because otherwise these people would not have been evacuated from their homes repeatedly, it is very clearly in quotes to the detriment of what happened to us in the Zlín Region, as well as material damage. And let's just imagine, and let's say quite frankly - even if the Prime Minister said yesterday, this was a messed-up operation, they're not exactly capable of agents, as it sounds - so let's see what else might have happened. It could really have been about the fact that the moment the ammo, when the explosion wouldn't have happened in Vrbětice in the warehouse, but if the ammo, which was intended for other countries, would have traveled further, and it would have traveled by land, by rail, so if the explosion had occurred, perhaps in the transport. I think it's very scary tonight to imagine that the impact could have been even worse, with all due respect for the two lives that fell on the victim. [[15.40 hours]] Millions, hundreds of millions, even to a billion consequences in terms of damage and also compensation for the victims who have fallen and their families, should also be approached. Let us ask the Russian side, although it may be a futile attempt, so it is absolutely necessary this attempt to make clear compensation for both the survivors and those who have material damage, including the Czech state. At European Union level, we should also open negotiations on further strengthening sanctions against the Russian Federation, because the current ones are obviously not enough. Russia is capable of further aggressive action. We are not only witnesses of this in the Czech Republic. There are witnesses and other allies within the European Union. Therefore, let us approach these sanctions quite clearly. Parity in our diplomatic relations, which can be achieved through this, is clearly a weakening of the influence that the Russian Federation has here. Apparently, it's just the tip of the iceberg, the tip of the iceberg, which, because we now have this information, we could reveal. But what else are Russian agents doing here? That is certainly what one Czech citizen is asking now, because he realizes that Vrbětice could, respectively, have been near his home. It could be a threat to his family, his particular life. We might not even have to name the end of calling Rosatom with a safety questionnaire and other tricks. Our party, like many other opposition parties, has long listened to our security forces, unlike government officials, and we did not take them lightly, and therefore we clearly wanted the government to exclude Rosatom long ago. If this happens, let it happen completely proven and indisputably, because only then can we be sure that we will not get through various back-door tricks, whether as a member of the consortium, by handing over licenses or similar options. In my opinion, we should also end the debate on Sputnik V. Let's see how it goes there. This is another way in which Russia is marking its influence, and I do not think it is appropriate for us to help it in this respect, and we have enough options for other, verified, safe, approved, non-harmful vaccines that we can use. So let's not play this geopolitical game that Russia is playing. Let us not take lightly the misinformation war Russia is waging here. You know that there are experts in the TOP 09 who have been doing this for a long time, and it's a growing problem, and we're going to this very powerful weapon with a water gun like a kid somewhere on the playground. Let's just not see it as a thing that's bogus. What's swarming now, everything for the different bills, the troll farms that are on standby, they're going at full speed 24/7, so that's part of the hybrid war. We've been warned about this for a long time, and now we're reaping fruit again, when the work of our security services is being questioned here, when there are a number of different wannabe-believable factors that aren't supposed to be playing cards. So all of this is just a long-term, old-fashioned goal here, destabilizing us, destabilizing not only the state, but also our allies, alliances within the European Union, NATO. These are weapons that are obviously being used, and we need to be able to respond to that, not passively to that. And I think that the experiments that have been done at the Ministry of the Interior have been completely inadequate and should be made clear, but definitely progress. So, if I sum up a more forceful reaction from the government, stop bagging - and I think that one can fly away from time to time, especially under stress at a press conference or in some kind of conversation, but so that the Prime Minister, when OLAF's report came, is clear that there is an attack on the Czech Republic, but the moment we are witnessing state terrorism, we have confirmed it, this is not how he has done it, so it should happen to a truly responsible politician. Only after the debate that came to pass, after the wave of ill-advisedness that provoked it, he took his words back. It's a good thing at least, but I think you could have forgiven yourself at the very beginning. And now we have the second line of the matter, and that is the wonderful consensus of the various events that have happened since April 7th, when the Prime Minister and the other ministers should have come to know this fact. That there was then a socialist convention, where we know what his result was, where Tomáš Petříček failed, and that he was removed from his post as Minister of Foreign Affairs, so that Mr Hamáček would have a great deal of room for him to be the representative, and thus, which he will be completely, can be said to be crediblely able to say: As Minister of Foreign Affairs, I will go to Moscow to negotiate something. I think we still have not heard a credible explanation here about why this whole fact had to be announced on Saturday night and why, until then, all preparations of Mr Hamáček's journey, accompanied by Mr Dank from Slovakia, to Moscow, and also under cover of the fact that he was going to deal with Sputnik. I consider it a very long time, the 11 days. I'm sure it's understandable that there's a need to prepare to move some key people from the embassy back to us, but to take this long before it's possible to tell the public what's been going on here? This really seems very strange to me, and I wonder if the speculations that appear to have occurred are true because both gentlemen were aware that they could soon come out through the media, that there were already editors who had the information and which would have let them out about the weekend in question. I think that here in this case it is difficult to excuse at a time when we have clear warnings from security forces, long-term that Russia sees us as its enemy, there are a number of hostile actions, including cyber attacks, perhaps even for our hospitals, which is definitely not easy, it is a gamble with human lives, and when it learns that Russia is able to do such an act in which people die, the lives of others are at risk, and when we are indeed attacked completely unprecedentedly, so at such a time to plan something like the way to Moscow... That seems absolutely, but absolutely necessary to say clearly, and also from the Prime Minister, how it is possible that in light of all the things he knew, he did not stop the journey in quotation marks at the very beginning, much earlier, and not after it was quite a big media mess. These things, unless they are clearly, crediblely, undisputedly explained, thus give rise to much more doubt than some certainty and answers. [[15.50 hours]] If, indeed, the Minister of Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs is not able to explain this, I think he should draw clear consequences from this, and by the clear consequences I am referring to his resignation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u13	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Mrs Jana Černochová will now appear, Mr Vít Rakušan will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to take a short retroocene into the entire case of the explosion of ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice. The explosions of two ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice occurred in October and December 2014. 16. 10. 2014 was the first explosion. Warehouse number 16 was destroyed, with 58 tons of ammo in it. After that, 355 uncontrolled explosions followed. Two employees of Imex Group, who rented the warehouse from the state enterprise Military Forests or Military Technical Institute, died. That's where some data overlaps a little bit. 100 people were evacuated from the ammunition warehouse. Evacuated were also residents of the adjacent village of Vlachovice, as well as pupils from primary schools and apprentices from the Secondary vocational school in Slavicín. 23. 10. The evacuation has started in 2014. 375 inhabitants from the municipalities of Lipová, Vlachovice and the industrial complex near the town of Slavičín were evacuated. Evacuation lasting two days has been announced for preventive reasons, pyrotechnics launched a survey of part of the area closer to the municipalities. 3. 12. 2014 followed the second explosion. Warehouse 12, which contained 13 tons, but somewhere mentions up to 98 tons of explosives. It was 1,200 meters from the epicenter of the first explosion. According to Imex Group's attorney, artillery ammo and machine guns were stored in the building. In his opinion, the warehouse could not spontaneously explode. Neighbors had to be evacuated in the short term, 430 inhabitants from surrounding municipalities were evacuated. On 22 December 2014, the bomb squad returned to Vrbětice. The site was guarded, guarded, followed by several years of removal of the consequences and investigation of the causes of the explosion. 13. 10. 2020 was the end of the intervention of the security forces in Vrbětice. The area of former ammunition storage has returned to normal legal condition. In the future, all the land and buildings on the premises were to be acquired into their property Military forests and estates of the Czech Republic, which plan to farm on them. At the same time, even after years of closed investigation by the National Headquarters against organised crime, which solves the case as a criminal offence of deliberate general threat. Costs and compensation, ladies and gentlemen: the cost of eliminating the consequences of the disaster was close to CZK 350 million by the end of 2015. The amount needed for subsequent cleaning of the premises from unexploded ammunition was estimated to be up to CZK 1 billion. The government decided on the total compensation of Vrbětic residents with a lump sum of CZK 3 000. Furthermore, residents could apply in a standard manner for compensation for property damage or loss of profit. Of the 136 applications, however, only two applications were accepted by the Regional Authority or the Ministry of the Interior as of August 2017. The Armored Company Imex Group requested from the state compensation for the statements of the then Deputy Prime Minister, the current Prime Minister, Mr Babiš, who made a statement shortly after the second explosion in December 2014 that the company was very controversial, that it faced problems like in Vrbetice in Bulgaria and that it exported weapons to the embargoed Congo. The District Court for Prague 2 and later the Prague Municipal Court made a request for compensation. The compensation was to be in favour of the Imex Group at CZK 15 million. The Court rejected this and, in December 2018, Imex appealed to the Supreme Court, which returned the case to the Prague court in July 2020. So much for a little window in history to retune the atmosphere. Even in this Chamber of Deputies, mayors, representatives of those incriminate municipalities - you can find it in the tapestry. Indeed, our country was full of this incident, this tragedy and no wonder. When I was thinking about where we moved as the Czech Republic in a few years, I realized one thing. I realized that many of our leaders, however much they blur their rhetoric and really lighten what happened, then in the finals, when there is such a tragedy, they can stand up to those cameras and assure some form of the people of the Czech Republic that these things are under control, they have them firmly in their hands. But what is missing from you, I, the Prime Minister, the citizens of the Czech Republic, is the expression of the Chief Armed Forces Commander, the President. As part of my terminology window - and I don't want to go into any terminology debates here - but there have been several references to the terms of state terrorism. I think that is exactly the term we should use, because in international relations, this term is used as a political term when there is an incident against the state and the state. Now it doesn't matter if these two gentlemen, even if we can think it and label it like that, they were terrorists or bad guys. But these two gentlemen have been pretty active agents of Russian military intelligence who are part of the Russian armed forces and are directly subject to President Putin. So it was an action by the Russian Federation, the state, not one here - not even those terrorist organizations I want to mention everyone we know from international relations - it was an action by the Russian Federation, the state, against the Czech Republic. [[16.00 hours]] If you can still pay attention to the thought of why our country is actually entering some epicenter of Russian intelligence attacks, or as my previous speakers, various activists, pro-Russian trolls, have also said. If they sense that they have fertile soil in that country for such steps, they will always commit those steps, always fill the space. I'm sure many of us also realize that if Russia understands anything, it's -- it understands power. Therefore, any manifestations of our weakness and concessions must be forgiven, we must not afford them, nor must our top officials afford them. It is even more obvious after a hard retribution by Russia, which has effectively paralyzed our diplomatic representation and consular activity. I would like to make a clear request here that we reduce the number of employees of the Russian Embassy to the same number as our new representation in Moscow. Today I participated as a member and chair of two committees of the Chamber of Deputies, in a similar vein the resolution was adopted by both the Committee on Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. You know, I don't believe that all GRU agents from the Czech Republic flew off yesterday's Ilyushin and that their operations on our territory are over. On the contrary, it is appropriate to worry about intensifying their activities, retaliation actions, hybrid attacks and cyber operations. We need to prepare for this, and cutting numbers is the best and most effective preventive step. Ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you of one thing that is not from such a long time ago. On December 25, 2020, we could read that President Zeman demanded the names of Russian spies and details of live operations. Specifically, it was at the end of December 2020, when President Zeman requested the Director of the Security Information Service to list these agents and information and details from live operations. These tasks of the President have not only raised us here in this Chamber of Deputies, but also the Security Information Service has been defended by the Prime Minister and other government officials, for which I thank them, as well as the relevant parliamentary committee. This information was therefore given to the President to some extent necessary, limited. But let me ask you a question here. Don't you think that's a strange coincidence? Finally, we need to start working systematically and in cooperation with our partners so that we, as the Czech Republic, are becoming more and more energy independent and are not blackmailable in any way in this area. It's not just about the Dukovans, but it's about other sources and elements of critical infrastructure. I would also ask the government to turn more strongly to our partners and allies. I am convinced that, just as we have expressed our solidarity in connection with the Skripal case, it should now reach us. I therefore ask the government to be active in this regard. It is not that we want to wage war, but it is by peaceful and diplomatic means that we need to show the Russian Federation that Western countries are not intimidated and that any provocation, diversionary activities and attacks on one another do not belong. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u15	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Now, Mr. Vít Rakušan, and then I'm in. I'm gonna ask the Vice President to allow me to step forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, co-workers, colleagues, Mr. Secretary. I think there must be a clear thanks to the Czech security community at the beginning. The performance that she demonstrated, excellent cooperation between services and authorities of the Police of the Czech Republic, was completely exemplary. I think we have been able to convince ourselves on various platforms in the Chamber of Deputies, on committees and committees that our representatives of the security forces have demonstrated the utmost professional and excellent performance, and I think they deserve us to trust them to trust their information and their work, because trust in the individual institutions of the state is a fundamental attribute of a healthy and confident state. In this context, however, I must mention why members of the Czech Government - the Prime Minister, Vice Prime Minister Havlíček and others - did not trust our services those months before when our entire security community, with one voice, said that Rosatoma was a strategic danger to the Czech Republic that Russia should not be questioned within the framework of a tender for the construction of a new nuclear power plant block in Dukovany. The voices of the security community were talking to nothing. I also attended meetings where representatives of the security community and members of the government were, and I did not feel that they heard the warning enough. Even Mr. Vice Prime Minister Havlíček's words from this weekend that Rosatom's participation is almost out of the question seemed a little comical to me. After this weekend, perhaps the word "almost" is completely but completely redundant. In the future, I would like to call on our government not to question the work of our security community in order to trust the organisations that it itself establishes, which it finances, whose organisational and personnel structure affects largely. The security community deserves a thank-you. And I fully hope that even the current government, although I don't think it will be here much longer, will change its mind about whether or not the security community in the Czech Republic deserves their trust. At the same time, I must clearly reject Prime Minister Babiš's words that it was an attack on goods. I'll say two names: Vratislav Havránek and Luděk Petřík. Two gentlemen with families, with children who were killed in a terrorist attack organized by the Russian party. At this point, in this context, when thinking about lost lives, about ruined family lives, about huge material, financial, psychological losses that people in this region have experienced, talk about attacking goods, so at that moment it is cynicism or absolute misunderstand and underappreciation of the seriousness of the whole situation that is happening around us. And the situation is serious, the situation is unprecedentedly serious. Not only at the level of the Czech Republic, but at the level of the whole EU. At the level of all the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance. This is an attack on one of the Member States through the actions of agents of another power. The reaction of the government at the first stage was certainly adequate. The expulsion of 18 defined Russian service agents from the Czech Republic is certainly a serious response, but the reaction must not be final. [[16.10 hours]] The moment the Russian Federation literally and to the letter paralyzes its counter-reactions to the functioning of the Czech Embassy in Moscow, when the Ambassador, his assistant, maybe the consular department that the Rus themselves need for issuing visas, we simply have to respond the same way in that situation. We must move to such strong steps that the number of Czech diplomats in Moscow corresponds to the number of Russian diplomats in Prague. There is no other way if we want to show that we are a confident state, that we are a state that has confidence even in difficult moments and is not afraid of critical and crisis moments and strong solutions, because we know from the knowledge of history that Russia can hear nothing but strong answers. We cannot become the Czech Republic's gateway to the countries of Europe for Russian agents. This has been the case for a long time, we have only corrected the situation for a long time, we have been satisfied with the situation, and perhaps our reactions have not been very strong so far. At this point, we have the opportunity to establish relations with the Russian Federation, including relations at diplomatic level, as they should be, which means at the same level, i.e. reciprocally, with the same number of diplomatic representations in Moscow and Prague. I'm sure our allies deserve a great thank you. Their response was pleasant, kind, it was good and nice to read that we belong somewhere and that our allies were willing to express solidarity with the Czech Republic at the first moment when the public learned about the crisis situation. What a contradiction it is with silence from Prague Castle! What a contradiction it is that the head of our state won't express itself at such a difficult time! Not that he will address us, politicians, political representation, but that the head of state is at this point not directing any message to the citizens who elected the president to his office. This is a thing that is incomprehensible, unprecedented and as unprecedented as the attack itself in Vrbětice. At the same time, however, I think that the expression of primary solidarity is nice, but our government should strive with all diplomatic means not to put an end to it. The Czech Republic also responded to the Skripal case by diplomatic action, also by expulsion of diplomats from Prague, and our response was literally allied and solidarity. That is why we in our resolution call on the Government to coordinate the action of the states of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance so that the response is not only Czech, but truly international, so that it is clearly underlined and demonstrated where the Czech Republic belongs, that it is a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, that it is a member of the European Union. Next, you need to realize the local dimension of the whole case. You may have noticed that Mr. Mayor Hověžák and the local mayors had already come up with something that they defined as a willow challenge, where they clearly point out that so far no compensation has been made for all the types of damage caused by the explosion in Vrbětice. The argument was simple by this time, it was an argument of a legal nature that until now the culprit of the tragedy is not known. If we have moved further, if we can identify and identify the culprit, then it is appropriate that our government be very consistent and help the natural and legal persons in the region to finally receive compensation for the property and property damage they have experienced here. By the way, according to information, which is not secret, Minister Metnar, at this time, the Czech Republic has already cost more than CZK 250 million, not to mention all other expenditures which municipalities and cities in this region had to provide through their own resources. I would very much like the government to be able to see this aspect of the entire case and to enter into negotiations very quickly with the Zlín Region and with the municipalities in Vrbetic territory and to formulate a clear position on the responsibility of the Russian Federation and the readiness or pressure on the Russian Federation to bear the consequences of any property damage caused here. Please allow me to finally read the motion for a resolution, which I will, of course, sign up to in the detailed debate that the mayors have formulated along with the pirát: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ask for solidarity and coordinated action by the states of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance to call for a summit of the European Union to reduce the number of Russian diplomats to the level of diplomats of the Czech Republic in Russia. At the same time, the Chamber of Deputies notes that the compensation granted to the survivors, the owners of the municipalities concerned and their citizens, whether compensation for the actual, loss of profit or satisfaction for the explosions, was still quite insufficient due mainly to the unidentified culprit. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide synergies in the recovery of adequate compensation against the responsible persons and, where appropriate, the responsible state. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure full pyrotechnic survey and security of the affected territory. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to proceed in accordance with Article 33 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms in view of the death of two citizens of the Czech Republic, following an examination of the case, to notify the European Court of Human Rights of the facts of possible violation of the Convention by the High Contracting Party, the Russian Federation. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to explain in writing how it is possible that dangerous ammunition has been stored in warehouses in close proximity to several municipalities, which has put the lives of the citizens of adjacent communities at risk." I thank you in advance for the support of this resolution in our vote and, at the same time, I would ask all of us not to be afraid to show that we, as the Chamber of Deputies, are a self-confident body and that we are capable of proving an unprecedented attack on the Czech Republic, to make clear and declare our political will, our political opinion, and that we are not a fearsome state in the middle of Europe, but a full-fledged member of the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union with its own strong foreign and defence policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Those were applications written with priority rights. Now with priority right, Vice-President Filip, then next in line, as the first Mr Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u18	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will try to be brief. In a way, I will follow up on my previous speaker, because for me, as I said before, when they first asked me this question, more questions than answers. The first question is why, six and a half years later, the law enforcement authorities have not come to an end, and why have some responsible persons working in this ammunition warehouse been acquitted, and how is it that we still do not know the cause of the explosions? That's very considerate. And what is important to me is that I think it concerns precisely what the Prime Minister and Vice-President of the Government have declared on Saturday. Their announcement was that they had established facts which sufficiently justify the conclusion that a criminal offence had been committed. Well, we here - or my previous speakers - talked about the evidence being here, but no evidence was presented. No evidence has been provided because, as a lawyer, the difference between reasonable suspicion - and the Prime Minister's statement - and the evidence - is essential to me. The evidence is being evaluated by the court, and no trial has yet said anything about any evidence that would lead to the punishment of the guilty. So that's what's most important to me. [[16.20 hours]] Well, we here - or my previous speakers - talked about the evidence being here, but no evidence was presented. No evidence has been provided because, as a lawyer, the difference between reasonable suspicion - and the Prime Minister's statement - and the evidence - is essential to me. The evidence is being evaluated by the court, and no trial has yet said anything about any evidence that would lead to the punishment of the guilty. So that's what's most important to me. Then there was talk about how all our allies are united in what we do. Well, I don't see it that way. I must say that I have returned to what took place on 15 and 16 April this year in Paris, and this was the meeting of Ukrainian President Zelenský with French President Macron and German Chancellor Angela Mergelová. The conclusion of this meeting was clear: France, Germany, informed the Ukrainian President to comply with the Minsk agreements and that further negotiations would continue 19. 4. Logical, because France, Germany are pursuing the interests of their countries, by extension the interest of Europe, and the dispute over Ukraine, the dispute about how this will develop in Ukraine, is not in the interests of the further economic functioning of Europe. And I think that this is a very important issue, because President Macron said in his annual statement last year that Europe needs to be emancipated so that Europe can formulate its own European interest. Also, you can't say there's any applause for our so-called forceful steps that we've taken. And that leads me to other questions: how much is our solution, which means on the basis of reasonable suspicion, at all supported by the so-called forceful steps we take? In fact, by excluding 18 diplomats, we destroyed our embassy because, according to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, where the principle of reciprocity applies, we had to assume that the same number of our workers would be expelled from the Russian Federation. So this government's reasoning seems at least inappropriate to me. Note that much larger countries with much larger embassies in Moscow have responded much more sparingly than we have. I must say, then, that it is important for us to address this issue so that it is part of a possible resolution by the Chamber of Deputies that we insist on investigating the explosion in Vrbetice. I do not want to mention the remarks made by former Interior Minister Chovanec in 2014, 2015 at many meetings of the Chamber of Deputies dealing with this issue, both in October and December 2014, and subsequently at the meetings of committees or commissions of the Chamber of Deputies. I think those who were here in the last term remember the importance of what questions were being asked here and what the Home Secretary was telling us back then. I'm forced to say that I'm grossly dissatisfied with the fact that all the investigations that have been conducted here so far have not come to any conclusion, even in a situation where evidence has been provided for the investigation, whether it's the contradiction between the firefighters being called first, and then there's been explosions... That has not yet been answered, although we were already demanding that this discrepancy be explained here at all in 2014. So for me, the reasonable suspicion is not evidence, and don't be mad at me that as a lawyer, but also as a politician, I want this investigation to continue so that we do not end up with some political forceful gesture that will lead to the abolition of relations not only between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation, but between Europe and the Russian Federation. Because, of course, we can in some way extend our steps, as has been called upon here several times in the performances, but in that case the 100 billion crowns, the trade exchange, will be replaced by trade between either the Russian Federation and the United States of America, or the Russian Federation and other European states that will gladly replace our products on the Russian market. So I would rather call for moderation, for us to give way to justice, to ask the law enforcement authorities to proceed systematically to return to the investigation, and for what the court held against them when he liberated individual participants, for those who were accused to be able to investigate. So I have to conclude - I said I would be very economical in my performance - rather than repeating what I said in 2014. The real objective culprit is the privatisation process, which enabled military material not only to be stored but also managed by a private company, which in a way was not able to control the area until the deployment of the Police and the Army of the Czech Republic, or to operate there so that no explosion occurred. And this is important from the point of view that we have here before us to discuss whether we can even continue to allow the state enterprise, which is set up by the Army of the Czech Republic, to rent the premises of this type, material of this type to a private company and it is managed and supervised. I think that's the biggest lesson we have here. She ends the liberalization somewhere, and the state power, whether it's too legislative, executive, judicial, has its limits, obligations, and I would say my most important statement is that it's applied where it's supposed to be applied. And don't be mad at me, the police and the army don't deserve privatization, which deserves really the care of the state, which I am very deeply convinced of. So I say again, please answer those questions that have not been answered since 2014 and the reasonable suspicion is not evidence. [[16.30 hours]] And please, in my speeches, I would ask the Prime Minister and the Deputy Prime Minister to speak at least as the Prime Minister today says in a public speech that they had heard about this on Friday or just before Saturday's speech, and it was evident that as of 6 April, as the Prime Minister said today, they knew this at least from the oral hearing before the Committee on Intelligence. That disrespects any expression of any of you, and I don't know if you'd say it here if it weren't for the failure of Ex-minister Petříček who basically betrayed it. I am sorry because it undermines the position of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u19	Thank you. There is now, with a factual remark, Mr Čižinský, then I have an extended list of priority rights and I see that the Prime Minister is also reporting to me, however, as the first Mr Čižinský. [[The President shall speak to Vice-President Philip outside the microphone.]] There is not yet a debate, Mr Member, so in that case we will continue with the priority rights, and Mr Jurečka is now next. I'll put the Prime Minister in order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u20	I will now do... if the President agrees, I will release the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u21	I'm happy to oblige, I'm just gonna have to ask the others who are with priority rights at the moment, if no one objects. I don't see anyone wishing to object, so the Prime Minister has the floor, and then we'll go back to the original order. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u22	I'm sorry. I'll explain it one more time. 6. 4:30 a.m., the head of the BIS asked me to call the intelligence committee. So I called him at 7. 4:00 a.m. at 7:00 a.m. There we got oral information, there was a presentation, we didn't get any paper. And 16. 4. that was Friday, at 15.54 hours I first received a BIS report in written form. I've never had paper before. So I'm just explaining what happened. Well, I hope that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u23	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with priority rights, President Jurečka. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u24	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, two Ministers of the Government, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for returning to this debate, because I will try to be brief and I have some appeals to you and your government directly. Maybe I'll go back to 2014 and pick up a little bit on what my previous speaker, President Filip, said. I was, like some of the current members of the government, a member of the government, then Minister of Defence was Minister Stropnický, Minister of the Interior was Minister Chovanec, and when that event happened in Vrbetice when the first attack occurred, we remember that the information on the government and then on the Security Council of the State was repeatedly discussed for several months. The basic operation, evacuation of persons in Vrbětice, Vlachovice and other municipalities in the area, including the industrial zone, was solved. There was a lot of stuff going on, there was a lot of cost to secure the compound, transporting the ammunition, and other things that were related to cleaning up the area. And here I want to respond to Mr. Vojtěch Filip. Mr President, it needs to be realised here that even then after the first explosion, the police were still saving it as negligence, but after the second explosion, it was re-qualified for a deliberate crime, and then even publicly, I can say that here, the Minister of the Interior, Chovanec, turned to the police with alarming information regarding the explosions in Vrbetice, that it was not the negligence of those people. That's what happened back then. It was then discussed publicly, of course, internally, so there was already a very strong suspicion that two experienced armorists would not make such a mistake to make this matter. So I - because nicely, don't launch that classic communist doctrine of questioning those things, relativizing those things, because at that moment you're questioning the whole system - the state's attorney, the work of the police, the work of the security forces in this republic. I'd like to ask your party representative to attend the Security Committee meeting because he wasn't there yesterday. If he had been there, he would have heard the information firsthand, had the opportunity to ask, but unfortunately your colleague didn't show up. So much for this thing to begin with. However, to those events that we are watching right now, I would very much appreciate it if you, Prime Minister, ideally with the Minister of the Interior, Vice Prime Minister Jan Hamáček, were you to make a summary of the information that you have said here and which, I suppose, maybe you can do a little bit more after consulting with the representatives of investigators and services, if you could perform in some really prime time and with an extraordinary speech, because it is really very unfortunate, when the information is biting so differently, you here, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček will say something in the Event, commentary and so on, but if it were to be heard from your mouth in one session, it would be very useful to define the space for disinformation, because it is very big today. To make it clear how, on the basis of what basic things it was done, why it took that long period of time, because that is what many people refer to. It would be very good if you could name this. Of course, it would be perfectly ideal if our President could name this, who, if he had stepped up and acted as a representative of our armed forces, would have been the most ideal thing to do, but I'm afraid we can't. I'm going to go back to how you perceive the gravity of this situation. It was an act committed by representatives of other services of another state, who until then looked like a state that wanted to have friendly relations with us. It was in the territory of the Czech Republic, it was in the space belonging to the Army of the Czech Republic, two citizens died in it, it is a great miracle that the victims were not tens, if not hundreds. In the perimeter of several hundred meters, people found fragments of the ammunition in their gardens, on their roofs. And I don't know how we would explain to our partners in Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria, if the ammunition exploded somewhere, how it is possible that such a shipment originating in the Czech Republic did such a thing. I would like to thank everyone here, not only the representatives of the security forces, but also the police, the prosecutor's office and all the cooperating authorities abroad, for the work they've done. I've got to get out of here before-- not counting the last two weeks-- but actually, the whole time the investigation's been going on, the information hasn't gone public. This shows really very good, coordinated work of our files. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, for a much greater intervention in terms of international cooperation and communication with our allies, so that the raid is equal to what then British Prime Minister Theresa May, who has clearly, quite clearly addressed her allies through diplomatic contacts, passed on the seriousness of the information and asked not only to support rhetorical but also to provide concrete support for the expulsion of so-called diplomats from Russian embassies in allied countries. Let me just remind you, the numbers were very large. The United States of America expelled 60 of them, Ukraine 13 of them, and the Czech Republic, here is a thank you to your government for taking that step back then. So please, be more active in this. I confess that I do not understand at all when you had this information as a government, and you as Prime Minister, why you changed the Minister of Foreign Affairs in this situation. In such a situation! [[raised voice]] A responsible government, if it knows what might happen, what it will need in that diplomatic maze, I would expect a qualified minister to do the full work, a foreign minister who has already made contacts, and thanks to his contacts, we will be able to have the full diplomatic support of our allies. It's obvious that the government knew it, the gravity of the situation, yet you did the move, the appeal. I don't understand. I would like to explain how you, as Prime Minister, could have agreed to this. I would understand if you said to the chairman of the coalition partner: I respect this, but we have a difficult situation ahead of us, let us wait a month and then let us do - if necessary. And this step is to the detriment of the Czech Republic, now it shows absolutely in full nudity. I would have expected that yesterday, when Jan Hamáček is a foreign minister at this moment, he would have been on the plane tonight and would have visited at least his partners in Berlin, Paris and London. I think the Minister of Foreign Affairs should do this so that he can say these things in private to the most key partners here in Europe and ask them for full support. That's what I'm missing in a huge way right now. I would like to ask, Prime Minister, and say here that you have clear support - I suppose, even representatives of opposition democratic parties: compare the conditions of force in our embassies, this is an exceptional opportunity now, even though we are not pleased with it, and clean up the Russian embassy in Prague. [[16.40 hours]] It really is necessary after all these years, when unfortunately, even though we were brought to the attention of all the security forces here, it didn't happen. Now's a good chance to do it. These relationships are freezing today, but we have a chance today to say: Yes, it will hurt, it will hurt both sides, but there is a chance to restructure it, set it up new in the future. Here you have the support, do really with full pride, with force and speed, to make it evident that you are defending Czech interests. Nobody wants to cause a war here, we're far away. But it is not possible to tolerate persons who are conducting a diverse intelligence activity here in our territory, they are supported by the personnel background of the embassy. It's just not possible. I would also like the government to be able to stand up fully for the head of the Security Information Service, because it has proved by this operation that our Security Information Service and the other services work very well. I dare say that the Chamber of Deputies should also take that step and suggest in my eyes a general, even though the President has not yet named him, to state honours. I think this guy deserves it. Of course, the people who work under it deserve this. I would also like to see a clear request from the Government with the support of the President of the Republic for an explanation, an apology, compensation, compensation for survivors, and compensation for material damages that have taken place. They have happened to the state, they have become to the municipalities, they have become to the citizens and their possessions, which some of them cannot make full use of to date. This should also clearly follow and ask for compensation for this damage. And lastly, and I will conclude: Mr Prime Minister, I would like you to introduce yourself, or your colleagues - I miss the Minister of Defence here today, Mr Metnar, to also comment on the steps he is taking on NATO - so if you would please say nicely what the next steps will be to ensure our security, the Czech Republic not only in this area, but also in the area of, for example, energy security and self-sufficiency, cyber threats, hybrid threats, and so on, because it also concerns practical things such as the risks of cyber attacks in our hospitals. This may endanger the particular lives of ordinary citizens in operating rooms and so on. Here I would very much like it to be presented - it may not sound today - but clear visions, concepts, how we can learn from what happened in 2014 and what we are going through here in these last weeks. So many of my comments on these matters, and I would be very happy, Prime Minister, if you will continue to respond to that at the end of the discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u25	I thank Mr Jurečka. Before Mr Válek comes forward with the right of priority, I state Mr Martin Kupka's apology from today's meeting date to 6:00 p.m. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read a brief passage that I have found: "At the same time, he declared all states working with the US as enemies. He also accused the United States of manipulation in France, Belgium and Italy, where the Communists lost many votes. He argued that this plan must be liquidated, prevented by any means whatsoever, and that the French and Italian Communist parties should make every effort to sabotage the implementation of the plan. In addition, the Western Embassy in Moscow has been isolated and prevented from contacting them with the surrounding area." I quote this in 1948, the Secretary of State of the Soviet Union Molotov and criticism of Marshallův's plan. Marshall got the Nobelův Prize. As Molotov and Stalin turned out, we all know. It hasn't changed that much. Today is the name of the Foreign Minister I suspect Lavrov, it is no longer the Soviet Union, it is Russia, the Kreml remains the Kreml and again the same are called upon to support the country's plans. This country's plans are terrorist attacks on other countries' territories. We, for God's sake, have gotten out of the Warsaw Treaty and out of the influence of building socialism with bright tomorrows and following the country, where yesterday means tomorrow, so we have made it to Western Europe, to the European Union, and thus we can develop democracy. However, we are still exposed to these attacks. I am appalled that the Prime Minister knows that this attack has been made by less experienced agents, the term "matlal" or something like that - that is probably, if those experienced agents came here, and I believe it, and I'm sure those experienced agents are operating outside Russia, the situation would be far more tragic. I'm also interested in what other events have been going on in recent years. I will remember one of them: almost destroying the information system of the University Hospital Brno, assault and attack on this faculty hospital, which is still being investigated. And if it turns out that the same forces were responsible, it'll be another step towards describing the whole situation. To sum it up, I don't like a world where whites and blacks are in. I have a lot of friends in Russia. When I was singing in the congregations, I had a lot of colleagues, and I have to say, much more colleagues in Russia among the singers in the congregations. I have a lot of friends there with doctors, and I have them in a number of other countries. I've got them in China, too. And that doesn't mean that I will allow and admit - if I can interfere in any way - that any country behaves splendidly, so that any country towards my nation, towards my country, acts so that it kills here, that it makes terrorist attacks here, that it destroys the property of our fellow citizens and sends its agents here with this purpose trained to carry out the most disgusting and disgusting diversional events I've read only about in books! And now I'm learning about them, and now I'm experiencing them, and now I'm hearing about them from the first good just because I'm an MP. Of course, it is wrong and certainly not well when the government knew this. I understand that it happens that the people who were supposed to come aren't going to come here, and there aren't going to be letters that were supposed to come here, but even so, the government knew about it well enough in time, and yet almost four times in a week, the Foreign Minister changed - or fourteen days. The Minister of Culture probably knew why he didn't do it, if I understand correctly. I don't blame him. And now we're gonna have a new minister tomorrow, so I hope he goes to the House and tells us how he's planning his next move. So far, he doesn't seem to talk, but I'm sure he'll talk himself out of it. However, the situation is very serious. It really isn't just any action that may have happened, maybe it hasn't happened, and we have to wait for some legal analysis. We have the excellent security services here, we have the excellent work of the security services, which revealed what happened, informed the government, and I ask now this government: Let's forget the disputes! Let us forget politics and think that we are Čech! Let's think about protecting our fellow citizens, thinking about protecting our country! Let's act confident, let's act like some Čech have done in the history of our nation. Let's follow these traditions and let's show that we're not afraid that we can stand up when evil comes along. And now there's evil here. The evil came from the Kremlin, killing, killing, and exploding. Let's face the evil. We're not alone in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u27	Now with priority rights Vice-President Pikal, President Bartošek will prepare himself. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think that, in a matter of fact, the hostile act on our territory, the sabotage and the attack on our sovereignty has been brought forward by others and will yet perform. However, I have applied for the procedure because there is still a free table of the rapporteur, and I think we should take this position. After all, some suggestions have already been made here, including proposals for state honors, and I may be applying to this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u29	Thank you. I think we will be happy to do this by making Mr Vice-President Pikal the rapporteur for this item according to an unwritten part of the Rules of Procedure. Does anyone have a reservation? Because it doesn't vote, that's the first one in the discussion. The debate has not yet been opened, while priority rights are still in place, but if Vice-President Pikal has applied for it, we can do so. If no one has a reservation, thank you, Mr Vice-President, you are the rapporteur on this point. Now, colleague Bartošek, Vice-President of the Government of Hamáček will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in the Czech Republic is a fundamental intervention in the security of our country. Any excuse that a possible explosion was to take place in the territory of another state is an odd argument. And it must always be viewed so that anyone who treats us or our loved ones in this way must have a clear and hard answer. The security of all of us, our families, our children and also our seniors, the whole country is absolutely crucial. She's not party, she doesn't belong to anyone. The security of our country belongs to all of us and we are responsible for it together. You know me, I, when it comes to criticism, have been quite often critical of the government. In this case, I would also like to commend the government for some of its actions at the same time. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] Colleagues, we can talk about this outside. Don't shout at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u31	Calm down, please. It's the one who's given the word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u32	What I would like to appreciate is that after many calls, after many years, when the BIS pointed out that Russia and China are actually developing hostile activities and increasing their influence in the Czech Republic, the BIS has been heard. The insults to her address ended. And all of a sudden, after the explosion and the death of two people in the Czech Republic, we were all alert. Suddenly, the BIS annual report is no longer just a piece of paper that is read and placed in a corner. Suddenly the warning got a clear dimension and outline in billions of damage and in the death of two citizens of the Czech Republic. I know it was not a completely free choice for the Minister of Industry and Trade, but in the end this appeal to the security of the Czech Republic resulted in Russia being eliminated from the construction of the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant. Minister, I am pleased and firmly believe that this position will apply not only before the elections, but at the same time after the autumn elections and we will continue to do so, because the risk of the Russian Federation is not changing by the autumn elections. Autumn elections don't change that. And it is important that this position is permanent and that the Dukovan tender should be written without any involvement of the Russian Federation, including sub-contractors. I have considered whether to put this in the resolution, and finally I have decided to ask you, Minister, to do so orally. What is absolutely essential, in addition to the resolution that I will read, is that you act forcefully, hard and uncompromisingly towards everyone, not only against the Russian Federation, who will treat our country in this way, threaten us or in any way push us into a corner. The answer to what happened by the Russian Federation must be clear and understandable on the part of these people. That is why I want you to consider and impose economic sanctions on the people and organisations behind this attack to impose economic sanctions on people and organisations that are targeted against the Czech Republic, including misinformation, because many of today's fights take place in the context of social media misinformation, and you need to be active as a government in this area. I would like to thank colleagues and colleagues here from both the Committee on Security and the Committee on Defence, Jana Černochová and others, for the substantive and very good discussion of this matter on both committees. Thank you, colleagues, for acting in a matter of fact together, for our country's security, and for the absolute majority, we were able to adopt a resolution that really supports our country. I have created and prepared with colleagues within the coalition of SPOLU, i.e. ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, an intersection resolution and I added it, I gave it to you, so you had the opportunity to get acquainted with it. I will now read it and ask you for his support. The motion for a resolution is predictable, not surprising in any way, and those on the Defence and Security Committee have had the opportunity to get acquainted with the text. I will now read the resolution to which I will then sign up in the detailed debate: "The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 98th meeting of 20 April 2021. On the issue of relations between the Czech Republic and the Russian Federation in connection with the attacks in Vrbětice and in connection with the Government's decision to expel 18 diplomats of the Russian Federation Chamber of Deputies I. 1. Condemns the terrorist attacks of special forces of the Russian military intelligence service, organised in the Czech Republic, leading to the violent death of Czech citizens, to the widespread destruction of private property and public values, including the devastation of the surrounding ammunition warehouses, which it considers unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, international law and act of hostility and aggression; 2. Thanks to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Information Service, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Police of the Czech Republic and the Supreme Attorney General and all those involved in identifying the activities of GRU members in the Czech Republic; 3. agrees with the expulsion of 18 diplomats from the Russian Federation. II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to 1. fundamentally rejected this unacceptable interference of the Russian Federation with the sovereignty of the Czech Republic by expressing this protest to the competent Russian government and taking all measures to reduce risk to carry out further operations of Russian special forces and ensuring the protection of the national security of our country; 2. Calls on the Government to respond adequately to the actions of the Russian Federation, to re-establish relations with the Russian Federation and to fundamentally limit the number of representatives at the Russian Federation's embassy according to the principle of reciprocity; 3. Calls on the Government not to allow any actors from the Russian Federation, including any consortium or structural trading allies, into the planned construction of a nuclear power plant or other critical infrastructure elements of the Czech Republic; 4. In cooperation with allies in the European Union and NATO, it has imposed coordinated economic sanctions against the Russian Federation and other non-state actors acting against the interests and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. This is a clear signal that the Czech Republic will actively act against hostile efforts to destabilize or undermine the democratic values on which our Republic stands. These sanctions will be imposed against all legal and natural persons supporting the activities of Russian intelligence services in our territory, including cyberspace. [[17,00 hours]] 5. We call on the Government to demand the Russian Federation to assume responsibility for the attack on the warehouse in Vrbetice and, at the same time, to require financial compensation and compensation for the victims, material damage and liquidation after the attack. 6. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to request, without undue delay, a joint public statement of support from the Czech Republic at the meeting of the North Atlantic Council and to call for coordinated action in response to the discovery that the Russian Federation is responsible for the explosions in Vrbětice. [[7.]] In particular, the Czech Republic should call on the allies to testify in a coordinated manner to Russian diplomats and rapporteurs, as was the case in 2018 after the attempted murder of Sergej Skripal. 8. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to create an initiative within NATO to actively address the reduction of the influence of the Russian Federation within NATO and the European Union, and to intensify the fight against misinformation." Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to ask you to support the motion for this resolution. I believe the security of our country is at our heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u33	Thank you. Now with priority rights Vice-President of the Government, Minister of the Interior and Minister of Foreign Affairs Jan Hamáček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u34	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, I'm gonna pick up on my colleague Bartošek, and I'm gonna thank you for a moment. Maybe I'll surprise you that I'll thank you all first for this very sophisticated debate. When I watched some performances in those last days and weeks, more like days, I was terrified of what I'm gonna hear here today and what it's gonna look like. I've been in the House a long time, but that's probably the first time I'm pleasantly surprised by the way we're having this debate. I hope it will last even after we open the debate. This thing is so serious that it really deserves a cool-headed approach and at least an attempt at national unity. And since I thank you, I thank you, of course, for the debate on the committees, because I originally thought it would be a risk to play it in plenary, but I hope I was wrong. But the debate on the committees where it belongs, those committees of expertise, it was very factual, it was detailed, and I think it enabled everyone on those committees to explain, using all the arguments available, because, with all due respect, those committees have a different regime than the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, so to explain to those who are supposed to control the government that no one has invented it, that if they are now going to go on full-time the disinformation sites and tell how there were no Vrbětice in fact, and if something happened to explode there and so on, I will now not invent the conspiracy theories for them - it has already started with the Russian response when we were accused of doing something in the United States's mercies. The first time I saw it, I admit I looked at it like I was crazy. And I think I've been through quite a lot, and as Home Secretary, I've been through a lot, too, but when I saw it, I said, "This is probably the hardest thing in office." And I'm saying again, we've been through covid, we've been through all kinds of things, but I'm just surprised by my complexity and complexity. And, of course, the concerns came about how to proceed and what to do. I must say that I also have to thank you and join in thanking all those who have worked it out, who have made it this far. And then I have to thank those who have ensured that this turned out well for the Czech Republic, and I will explain to you what I mean. When I read some of the reactions - and it does not concern this debate, it concerns the reactions we heard in the week - I felt that we were going again with the old Czech tradition: everything is wrong, let's look for culprits and I don't know what everything is and after the battle every general is. We should tell each other what happened here. We have had the most successful security operation of our files in modern history and thanks to the fact that the government has also followed up on the top work of our files, police and others, and don't be angry, it is not some bragging because no one else could have done it, and by its decision - or decision of the Foreign Minister, but, of course, in coordination with the President of the Republic - it has broken two complete residencys of SWR and GRU in the Czech Republic, so it is phenomenal success. And I agree that it may not have been discussed in the past, underestimated, but it probably wasn't an opportunity or a will, and now it's connected beautifully, and I'm so glad that it did. At the same time, I'm really glad that we've chosen as many corners in those few days as a Formula One circuit. Those of you on the committees, so you know it wasn't easy, that the government and others weren't moving completely in an unlimited environment, that we were just worried that the process instead of being controlled would become uncontrolled, that we'd be faced with a complete thing, that we'd have to explain things that could be difficult to explain, and in some media storm of some kind of media leaks, half-truths and theories, it just wouldn't work. And we did that, too, however we really had it by about hours. And if anyone's asking why the press conference was Saturday night -- because if it wasn't Saturday night, it was already late Sunday morning, and we'd already be explaining: you didn't know how you knew about it, why you did this, why you did that. So we did this, too, and I'm not gonna go into any more details, because I don't think that belongs here. But I think it's also important to say. I have a feeling from the debate that we should be proud of our success. It is, of course, also a warning for the future, because some aspects that are related to it simply arose historically, and then it just happened. For example, the issue of the size of the Russian embassy, who was there, what he was doing there, was simply not a thing that arose yesterday, but originated historically, and unfortunately it was already acting as a factor in the whole story. So I'm really glad that all this has gone well and please make those who aren't criticizing us right now, but who want to explain something or want to say what we should do, believe that there are teams of professionals sitting on those ministries and they know what to do. This applies both to the Ministry of the Interior and to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I'm glad there's a recommendation, but believe me, we've always considered what to do and when to do it. But there were only a few countries in the world who were dealing with a case of this complexity. Maybe it's good to look at the Salisbury case, because he's very similar. I understand that I have reaped criticism for my speech at the European Council of Ministers, but first of all, the criticism was not justified enough, because then my colleagues from the European Commission admitted that they did not mean it, the expression that we did not ask for help, but the British Party, and the British State Service is very efficient, it took some five days after Salisbury to turn to the members of the European Union at the time, to the allies and so on, and they asked for help. Actually, we did it two days after we solved the situation. And the very solution to the situation, however much time pressure it was under, was lightning. Fire 18 intelligence officers isn't a question for the afternoon. If I take just technology, diplomatic customs, service coordination, it just takes a while, and we desperately needed that time because we knew it had to look good, it had to look right, it had to look believable. Maybe we were doing things that weren't clear at the time or less understandable, but I believe that if it went into the whole complex on those committees, then that's understandable. And I want to thank the Security Committee because it was the first committee to thank us, and to some extent he said that he was taking our explanation and that this is how it is, so it's okay. [[17.10 hours]] I don't think I'm gonna talk any longer because maybe there will be some new arguments in this debate that need to be answered, but again I say, I stand behind every decision in the last 14 days, I stand behind every decision of the party that sat at the Ministry of the Interior until the night, thinking about what to do about it, and I believe that we will make it to the end, that when this government is done, and maybe it can be done quickly, because there are going to be some votes, so that we will end up knowing that we have done some good work for the Czech Republic and for its security. And not only for the security of the Czech Republic, but I believe all of Europe, because it may seem from what's in the media that there's a bunch of lunatics running around Europe trying to kill someone, and it's not working very well. But believe me, most of the time, it's just the cases that didn't work out. I have to say frankly, it scares me that there must be cases that went well. It's just that if there's a state here that's got a hit squad like this, then it's got to be a convention. And the fact that we fired 18 spies is the least we could do, and it was the right response at the first moment. Of course, if they want to escalate, we will turn right and logically to allies and hope that they will help us, just as we helped the Brit back in Salisbury, and we didn't have to, but we did. By the way, when I was performing on Sky News, that's exactly what I said. I said: We were asked by the Brit to fire three Russian diplomats, so we did it because we felt it was solidarity. And when the editor asked me if the Brit should do it, I said, of course, because it would please us. That's the principle of some alliance and the principle of some cooperation. So we've got somebody to turn to, we're not some island in the middle to worry about where it's coming from. Just if someone's threatening us today and I'm sorry - and I'm even standing behind the sentence that my head was washed up on, that I'm sorry that they're going to suffer from Czech-Russian relationships, because of course I wish those relationships were good, so that those companies that export their products to Russia can work there to make money, employ Russian citizens - yeah, but if a unit flies here with a number and kills people, it just won't work. And I believe that the allies that we've turned to will also take into account that some companies have lost their jobs and lose their money. So it's all complex, and I believe that once history judges us, it's going to say that this government has been through something that can't be described otherwise than some crazy ride on a tobogan because it was a covid that wasn't dealt with, now it's Vrbětice and I just hope that nothing else comes to the end of the term, this is quite enough, and that we just passed the test. So, thank you for the sophisticated debate, I hope we can stand it. And again, thank you to all those who have made it possible that today is the success of the Czech Republic and Czech security forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u35	Thank you. The Minister of Culture, Lubomír Zaorálek, will now speak with priority rights, so far the last of those who have applied before the debate with priority rights. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u36	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're actually going back to 2014. Let me remind you, which you may not remember what happened in 2014, actually shortly before the explosion in Vrbětice. On July 17, 2014, an aircraft of Malaysian Airlines MH17 was shot down over Ukraine, and you may recall that there was 298 dead at that time and that most of them were Holanďan. Of course, I remember very well what happened back then, because I was a foreign minister. And since we've been pretty close to Frans Timmermans, I remember what the Dutch party was like and what happened. I would like to say to Vojtěch Filip that when the Dutch minister came before the Dutch parliament in this case, he also had no evidence in his hand, evidence of what actually happened over Ukraine, and yet the Dutch Parliament took a very clear position on this. And I'd like to say something here about the strategy that the Holanďan had on the whole thing at the time, which I think was the result. The result may not have been that those who brought it to trial, but the result, which started with the united position of the Dutch Parliament, was Holland's success in obtaining both moral satisfaction and a clear international condemnation of what had happened. That means the strategy led to the outcome, even though there was no trial, but there was a result. And I think we're in something similar to Holland today. I even think what happened from us wasn't much less dangerous than what happened with that Malaysian plane that I suspect flew from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, because if those charges exploded somewhere else at some station, there might have been hundreds, and maybe even thousands dead. We were lucky in that. And then, in fact, my personal opinion is that the Rus obviously didn't want to shoot down a civilian plane, but the result was 298 dead. And that doesn't mean the tragedy is less or the guilt is less. Today, however there was no trial and there was no evidence, the whole world knows it was a Buk rocket from a launcher 53rd Russian air defense with a crew in Kursk. We practically all know this, without trial and without all that has been said here, would be a condition for us to be able to unite. So I point out: that today we need a united position of the House, a united position of the government and constitutional officials, we can simply demand that even when the investigation is not completed and we do not know who else was involved, and we cannot present the House with evidence, film records and so on. I tell you for myself personally with what I had the opportunity to see and get acquainted with, I have no doubt that in those days we operated on a special Russian unit, in which there were more people than just the two, the setting up also in Vienna and elsewhere, which means it was a Central European operation. It's obvious something very important must have happened here. Coincidentally, it was the same group that in 2016 - I'm sorry if you all know it - attempted a military violent coup in Montenegro and the killing of then Prime Minister Djukanovič. It was the same bunch filled with other guys. The coup was a failure for God's sake, and there it was a real coup d'état with all the signs of an attack on the country's constitutional system, because Montenegro has only 600,000 inhabitants. Here we may be lucky, cynically said. [[17.20 hours]] So let's not get illusions. The way Russia moves around Europe is absolutely brutal in this and, unfortunately, Russia proves that it does not care about the sovereignty of the countries and does not even take the weight of human lives. I don't think there's anything new, it's just part of Russia's history. I remember Sevastopol's stories of lev Nikolajevič Tolstý, when there's a scene like this where a grenade goes down and those officers who lie down, then they get up again, dust off the dust. One of them grabs a rifle from a dead soldier and says, "No problem, the rifle's in one piece." You see, that's something we know is part of what we meet in Russia. Masaryk and others wrote about it. We know that we have a power here that is so brutally incapable of disrespecting the sovereignty of the country, not respecting the loss of life, and denying even the nose between our eyes when it comes to giving responsibility for what happened, whatever it was, the Malayan plane, whether it were the other events that were actually far more dead than those who were in the Czech Republic. This is also an important connection for us to really realize what happened. The strangeness of the Czech case is that it took, say, seven years. But I myself have read that the pyrotechnic removal of the effects of the explosion, which had a 300-meter crater, lasted until 2020, and, if I'm not mistaken, the 100% identification of those persons by the Criminal Institute was not until March 2021. So that personally explains why it took so long, and I understand that, because exploring something in space so devastated is extremely difficult. And I also think it's a success that we have the result. So here I would sign the words of Jan Hamáček, who said here that this thing has a sequel and that today we have a summary of what came up. I think it's worth a lot because the explosion was a mystery to a whole bunch of people back then. I was there at the time, too, in the Willows. I remember experts saying this doesn't make sense. They were saying, you know, the ammo that was there, it wasn't able to explode itself, not even by falling. I remember, that was inexplicable. It's unpleasant these inexplicable things. I like it when we talk about what actually happened back then, it's very important to us. And if I wanted to say here what was the essence of the Dutch procedure that I thought was right then, these were the principles: the clear position of Holland, the united, clear position of government and parliament, the second point was not to lose the initiative and follow the strategy. And those situations must not get out of control from the point of view of where we want to go. In this, I think that I was also quite pleased with the debate today, because there were statements that seemed promising to me, as well as the statement by Petr Fiala, who said that we needed to get something in common, on which we agree, but also the statement by Mrs Černochová, who also said that this is not the point of fighting today, it is simply that we have a strategy to follow it so that we can unite on it. I also consider it very important that a number of speakers here have spoken about international coordination and cooperation. And let me say this for myself, because I consider it essential: we really need our allies to share what has happened with us at this moment. They need to know what's going on in the sense that we can't be alone in this to experience it ourselves. They have to participate in what happened here because it concerns them. I assure you that many intelligence agencies around us are very aware of this. Our findings are the findings they're working with today and they're going to work with. It is possible that the knowledge gained here will eventually lead to further revelations in their countries in cooperation with them. This means sharing is important at all levels, both intelligence and diplomatic. For us, it is very important that everyone knows what we are watching, so that they know that in Russian-Czech relations we are dealing with something that concerns them all, and that they understand our actions and share them with us in this sense. This is also the content of following the strategy and not going alone. We can't afford to stay here alone with this story, so it's just a Russian-Czech session. This just has to be more and everyone here today who talked about this being a big diplomatic task, so they were absolutely right. This, my friends, is a long-term thing, it's not a week thing. Here, I think it is necessary - and I know that it is going on - diplomatic work that will mean addressing our embassies, and the whole mechanism that is necessary for us to create a sharing of what has happened must be started. And we're just getting started. At the same time, I think, let me also say here that, in addition to the importance of keeping ties with our partners, very close to understanding us at the moment, I think it is also important not to lose the communication channel with Russia. Because if we want to deal with the Rus, I think we should be able to deal with it ourselves. You know, it's my personal opinion, but I don't think it would be good for us to have a middleman in relation to Russia. I don't know who the middleman could be. If you would suggest another country to me, I'll tell you, but she doesn't have the same interests with the Czech Republic. That is why I believe that the communication channel between the Czech Republic and Russia is important to hold, because it is also a prerequisite for us to reach out in this solution with full knowledge of how Russia is moving, what it is doing, with complete realism about who we are dealing with and who we are dealing with, at the same time trying to communicate the matter with them - for a number of reasons. There are 40,000 Russian citizens living in this country. Not everyone now may share this position, which has a majority here in Parliament. That means there's a lot of reasons why we need to hold the channel, and I think there's a lot of communication. The reason I'm mentioning this here is because it feels like we should keep in mind, too. We've just been living here with Russia for centuries, and what happened, as I pointed out in the demonstration from Russian literature, isn't really new. The way we live with the Russians is complicated, and even in what happened today, it seems as if Russia could also easily become truly our enemy. I don't want to say that it is today, but it can easily become that way. And we have to act accordingly, which is why we need the maximum communication with the European Union and the Alliance today. So I wish that today, in this House, we would actually vote together in the position, the clear position that I was talking about, is the basis of the long-term procedure that we need to achieve a result that is meaningful in something that will in some way be the answer to what happened and will be a viable solution. So we're here at the beginning of work. This House meeting and its resolution will be the first point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u37	Thank you, Minister, and since no one with priority right is to speak before the debate is opened, I am opening a general debate at the moment, and with priority rights with the opinion of the Pirates Club, Mr Jan Lipavskýý is ready to speak. Mr Lubomír Volný will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Allow me to speak with the opinion of the Pirate Club on this issue and actually on what Minister Zaorálek said here, and I see that he said so much in the capacity of an experienced politician who chaired the House for four years and did the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so his speech follows well in the sense that we are ready to participate and declare in the long term that we want the firm position of the Czech Republic to be within the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance. Similarly, we have long pointed out that the security of the Czech Republic is an important parameter, repeatedly lifting it on various occasions here in the House. I will give a few examples, namely activities from the foreign committee where the meeting took place to secure the representative offices, specifically after the incidents in Moscow. Five times we have unsuccessfully suggested that the Foreign Committee discuss the question of the completion of the nuclear power plant in Dukovany. Surprisingly, the government has always been rejected and so forth. The Security Committee included the question at the hearing, but then it never got there for procedural reasons. [[17.30 hours]] So it's one thing to declare the will of a common position, and the other thing is to keep working on it. We are ready to support the motion for a resolution presented by colleague Bartošek. Vít Rakušan presented his own motion for a resolution. I hope it will not be a problem for you to support it as well. In the same way, our Members supported the resolution that was made in the meeting of the Security Committee, the Foreign Committee, the Committee on Defence of other Commissions. The resolution clearly condemned acts of terror in the territory of the Czech Republic at the hands of the Russian military intelligence service. It has clearly been defined as a defence of Czech interests and Czech sovereignty - if I am to formulate it this way - and has called on the government to set a parity ratio within the number of diplomatic workers, diplomats and other employees, but in the sense that the number of diplomats is the same. This also applies to wagons and other categories of employees. In this context, I must mention one aspect that is very important, and this is the number of local forces at the Czech representative office in Moscow, where the Czech Republic, probably to save money, employs a large number of local forces. And if we are to talk about proportional representation, we will not avoid these people being released and in the future working primarily for Czech diplomats, employees of the Černín Palace. The whole case has two planes. The first plane is security and intelligence. Here is a really great thanks, great thanks and deep appreciation to the intelligence community and the police who investigated the case, managed to investigate it and familiarize the political level with its results. Frankly, where we are far more skeptical is the story that has begun to unfold - and we know it now - since 7. 4. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Hamáček in his speech - I noted it - wrote that he looked like a fool, that it was hard for him and that it was almost like a coronation crisis or something in those words. I don't want to paraphrase it exactly. That was 7. 4. And knowing how difficult the situation for the Czech Republic is and knowing that we will need international cooperation - and we call for the Czech Republic to share this information with the world, with allies in NATO, in the European Union, it is happening and the performance at the level of the North Atlantic Alliance took place, if I am not mistaken, and it will still take place - so he knew that he would need a functional foreign service in this situation, yet he did not hesitate and fire Minister Petříček in five days. I can smell holes in his story. It doesn't seem credible to me or his information that he faked his way to Moscow. Honestly, to provoke a major political case on the Czech domestic political scene, to pull the nose of the Russian Minister of Industry, to pull on the nose of the former Prime Minister of Parliament in Slovakia, to get into a conflict with a prime minister who probably didn't know about the faking, and until today he's fogging, he's using words that are not clearly interpretable, as well as he's getting into a conflict with the democratic opposition. We had some performances here on Friday morning, then they pulled it off on Friday 16th. It just doesn't add up, let's face it. I believe that time will show what the real motive was. Today we do not know, and in my opinion - now I speak for myself, with permission - in my opinion, the Vice Prime Minister wanted to postpone the publication in some way, he did not want to go out with it within 14 days. Anyway, it happened the way it happened. On Saturday, the Czech Republic learned this information. I understand everyone's completely freaked out, everyone's scared. It is appropriate to ask what we can do to prevent such events from happening again. The answer is quite simple, it has also been said here, but I also have to say this for our club, so that it is clearly recorded here. The answer is that we must listen to the warning of the security community. When it comes to building a nuclear power plant and the security community says that Russia is not to be invited into the process, what did Karel Havlíček do? He ignored it. And the tender could have been written sometime on December 17 or 16th. Instead, they invented some kind of pseudo-security control to keep rosatom there. On Sunday, Minister Havlíček, as in quotation marks, was whining that it would be a shame that Rosatoma wasn't there. That's just wrong. Security warnings need to be taken seriously. Just the same, we need to take security warnings seriously when we're talking about cybertech, IT. That was the Huawei + ZTE case. Once again, the National Cyber Office was under the harsh political pressure of certain interest groups that wanted to keep those Chinese technologies in play. And there's gonna be a lot of cases like that. These will be various examples of investment in the arms industry, military procurement, they will be cases of key infrastructure building, they will be other energy projects. And there is always in place to take into account the security parameter. I would like to hear about the case in Vrbetice to contribute to the fact that the company will take the warning of the security community more seriously, that it will not mock: And what are these agents doing here, ha, ha, ha, ha, so show me. Well, here we have black and white, what that might mean. I believe it will be an impulse to realise that, as a society like the Czech Republic, we belong to the European Union and NATO, that they are our friends and allies, because they do not develop such activities in our country and help us prevent them from doing so. Thank you for your attention. The opinion of the Pirates is that we will support the proposals that have been put forward here. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u39	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear in the debate, Mr Jan Čižinský will prepare. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u40	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, friends and friends, welcome to today's live entrance. Now we're finally gonna tell each other what happened here. First, we will tell ourselves what happened in 2014 when we needed to cover up our supply of weapons and ammunition to Muslim terrorists in the Islamic State and that we are supplying weapons and ammunition to neo-Nazis from the Right Sector in Ukraine. We needed an explosion. We needed an explosion to cover the traces of thousands of weapons missing in our warehouses that appeared in the hands of Muslims from the Islamic State, thousands of weapons that appeared in the hands of Ukrainian neo-Nazis. We needed an explosion, and the explosion came. And as was said here by Mr. Zaorálk, it couldn't have actually exploded in the Vrbětice itself. [[17.40 hours]] And let's think about what's happening today. Today, corrupt people here, who are corrupted by Westinghous and other people who are involved in this business on the right and left, are trying to eliminate the only country that is able to meet the requirements of the Czech Republic for the completion of Temelín and Dukovan. There's nothing else going on here. This is the only thing that this pseudo-position and pseudo-government ČSSD here is about an agenda that they've been promoting for practically the entire term of the election. This is what essentially caused the end of the Nečasův Government - I hope some police file isn't searching my apartment right now and finding some purses, it would be so sad. And you know what the prettiest part is? That the warehouse in Vrbětice was blown up to destroy the crime of the Czech Republic, when we violated all international standards and laws and delivered weapons to Muslim terrorists and delivered weapons to Ukrainian neo-Nazis, and that this was just about Temelín and Dukovany not being able to complete the Rus, so I don't need any evidence at all because Mr Zaorálek said so. We don't need any evidence here. This is just about what we think. Because in 2021, in the so-called parliamentary democracy, whether it is Holland or the Czech Republic, legislators do not need evidence. We don't need evidence. We only decide on what we think ideologically. We will decide only on the basis of what the head of the group tells us, or what they tell us from some Brussels centre, or what some sponsor tells us. We don't have to have evidence. Most importantly, we do not need to have evidence when that is the goal of a universally hated Russia. Let's go with the Russia we hate, we can charge him with everything. We have agents here, top GRU agents, who are unable to poison one double agent by a novice. Now I will even know that they are unable to overthrow the government in Montenegro, and in the end they are unable to even time explosives, so that they will explode where they are. I've read a little bit about Russian intelligence, and I know there's no forgiveness for the first mistake. There's just no forgiveness for the first mistake. And whoever makes the first mistake becomes an elephant and never goes into any more surgeries. I recommend the Aquarium book from the first GRU agent to transfer to the Angličan. I will now read to you the opinion of the Free Bloc Bureau, which is made up of the presidents of all regional clubs: "We do not believe the information of the Czech secret services, which we consider to be a mere appendix of NATO intelligence services, which now plays the role of useful idiots in triggering aggressive russophobic sentiments in society. The withdrawal of the Russian card on the eve of a possible armed conflict between the former Ukraine and the Russian Federation and a few hours after the announcement of Russia's arrest of agents - arrested, physically detained - "the agents planning to assassinate the Belarusian President and his family with the support of the US are a clear media manipulation committed by Babišův and the Hamáčkův government on the citizens of the Czech Republic on direct orders of NATO command. We will make every effort to launch a debate on this subject and demand the publication of all information on the activities of the secret services in the Vrbětice case over the last six years. We will not allow Babiš, Hamáček, or other primitive Russian racists and foreign groups to drag the Czech Republic into a trade or other war against Russia. Czech companies can lose 100 billion crowns of contracts and we can lose our energy security, which is for decades whether the pirát like it or not, but which has been provided for decades by Russia, which has never blackmailed us, whether we joined the EU or approached NATO without a referendum on its borders. EU countries are doing business with Russia, they have not supported us in this case, and Germany is desperate to complete Nord Stream II. In case of government responsibility, we will also open the tender for Rosatom and we will include gas plants in our energy mix, exactly according to Germany's model, and we will not extend anti-Russian sanctions at EU level. I am very pleased that Mr Zaorálek has removed the obligation to provide evidence from me, yet I can say that we have reliable information from anonymous sources from intelligence media, which gives us reasonable suspicion that there is a US secret service behind the explosion of a ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice in 2014, which, in cooperation with the BIS, has masked traces of arms supply to Muslim terrorists from the Islamic State and Ukrainian neo-Nazis from the Right Sector. We therefore request the withdrawal of 20 US embassy personnel and the termination of their illegal residency, which we operate as a cultural centre. The involvement of Czech secret services in the whole event suggests that according to the legal representative of the Imex Group ammunition warehouse, Mr Radek Ondruš, this company should have been informed by the State Military Technical Institute of any planned and realized visit to the warehouse. After this information, there had to be an indisputable electronic trace and, according to Imex Group's statement, there is no such trace. In the context of this US State Terrorism Act, we propose the adoption of the following resolution: Parliament of the Czech Republic approves the following resolution: 1. He condemns the terrorist attacks of the CIA, organized in the Czech Republic, leading to the violent death of Czech citizens, the widespread destruction of private property and public values, including the devastation of the surrounding ammunition warehouse, which he considers unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, international law and act of hostility and aggression. 2. It calls on the government of the Czech Republic to reject this unacceptable interference with the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, to express this protest to the competent government of the USA and to take all measures to reduce the risk for conducting other operations of US Special Forces and to ensure the protection of our country's national security. 3. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to quantify immediately the damage caused by the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbetice and to recover their reimbursement from the US government. 4. He strongly considers the US government's apology to involve US state authorities in the destruction of ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice, financial compensation for families of killed Czech citizens and compensation for losses on property and public values. 5. It calls on the government of the Czech Republic to reduce the number of US diplomats in the Czech Republic by 20 and to end the activity of an illegal US resident covered as a cultural centre. 6. It recommends full disclosure of the results of investigations and detection of the participation of US Special Forces by relevant partners in the EU in NATO. 7. He's giving a warning to the Director of Security Information Services, Colonel . Michal Koudelka, Director of the National Center for the Fight against Organized Crime, Colonel JUDr. Jiří Mazánek, their subordinates and other intelligence services of the Czech Republic and their foreign partners and other law enforcement authorities involved in this Russian-phobic campaign." Again, according to a member of the government, Mr. Zaorálek, I do not need any proof whatsoever for either of these claims, because the evidence is not necessary in political cases in 2021. If anyone here wants to stand up for me and argue with the Minister that the evidence is important, that's okay, because I have the exact same evidence in my hands as the BIS. According to - we already know what happened in 2014, we simply traded, delivered weapons to every Muslim terrorist who wanted to overthrow Asad. We did it like the Američan, we did it like Turkey, we delivered weapons to everyone who wanted to overthrow Secular President Asad. Personally, I wouldn't want to live in his regime, but he was a person who protected Christians, protected the Yazids, and under his rule there were no kidnappings, murders, and rapes, or Yazids, or Christians. We actively supported Muslim terrorists from the Islamic State in the fight against this man, who ran secular Syria. That they had these weapons in their hands, any person can now find out online. All he has to do is enter a search engine: Czech weapons in the hands of ISIS and he gets ten articles. Ten articles on the fact that they were found by international companies credible evidence of the use of Czech weapons in the hands of Islamic terrorists. To this day, no one has explained how the weapons got there, even though each weapon, of course, has its exact traceable number. [[17.50 hours]] What's going on today? Today it is about Russia not simply participating in the construction of nuclear power plants. That's all it is. It is just the energy security of the Czech Republic, which has been 100% in the last 30 years thanks to the professional approach of the Russian Federation, which, when we paid for it, has always supplied us with what we wanted them to do. We had no problems with gas, oil, nuclear fuel, or maintenance of our nuclear power plants. And this obviously bothers somebody terribly, because cheap gas, cheap oil and cheap electricity from our own resources are not suited to multinational corporations that corrupt the representatives of the democratic bloc here, and obviously ČSSD, because these people are acting against the interests of the Czech Republic, and they want us to buy either German gas from Russia, with an addition, or US liquefied natural gas, American oil, and to show us the company that went bankrupt in 2017 - I'm talking about Westinghouse - even because of two buildings on home soil, it was the same price that they offered in 2013 after Temelín's construction, and this company's foreign influence agents want to pass on the project Temelín and Dukovan, and the project in America, South Carolina, went bankrupt after the construction of the $9 billion. The $9 billion was built up, and then it turns out that instead of twelve they were still willing to accept, it would cost $26 billion. And this company is lobbied by the so-called democratic opposition and the ČSSD because no one else can build anything in the Czech Republic because we want a 1 200 MW reactor. Neither the Francouz nor the korejec have it at this time. They say they can derive it from existing ones, which is nice, but such a reactor does not have a license, let alone a reference structure. It would be a prototype and risking the safety, health and lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. This is not again - as is usually the case - the opinion of Lubomír Volný, because he is not fully aware of it, but it is the opinion of Mr Michal Šnobr, an expert, an expert on energy and a minority shareholder of ČEZ, who gives billions of advice to Czech investors, and I fully agree with this expert opinion. Not in your favorite disinformation media, but in the Diary. This information came from IMEX Group's lawyer, Radek Ondruš, who denied that his company would have any electronic record that those in charge of joining Vrbětice, which is the Military Technical Institute, confirmed anything. Let's review here what we know 100% and what's already in public space. IMEX Group was never informed that some people who were then identified as Russian agents entered the building. So if the BIS has a record of two Russian agents entering Vrbetic through the main entrance as a delegation, then the footage is either fake or the BIS, without the knowledge of the owner of the ammo, has allowed these people into the facility in cooperation with the Military Technical Institute. And this is a 100% verifiable fact, unless it is publicly proven by an electronic trace, which will also be found at the said firm, proven otherwise. It is the only information that has been leaked to the public so far, and I would be interested to hear the statements of all those concerned who, without any evidence, have only politically and for the time being, only economically, but would probably like to see this country at war with Russia, at least commercial, self-destructive, which would increase the price of energy by 200, by 300, by 400 percent for end customers. So let's say it again. Agents Pat and Mat, who have failed to poison Skripal with one of the most effective combat substances - she is so effective that if you are now poisoned by Novičok, they will take you to the German spa for a week and you can relax there and go back home - they could not time the charge and could not even revolutionize Montenegro, so these Russian superagents Pat and Mat operate continuously throughout Europe, and apparently one of them will also be the famous ricin agent who wasn't actually in the finals. You know, if the BIS wears respirators in accordance with government regulations, I'm not surprised they're hallucinating. All the allies, as we've heard here, we have to keep challenging because it's obvious they don't give a damn about us. This situation has somehow been fired into the media space and virtually no one has reacted to it in a fundamental way, none of our so-called allies. So let's analyze it a little bit, what does that mean? What can it mean if no one jumped the russophobic lure automatically? How come the entire European Union didn't react immediately when the bad Rus murdered two people here, a huge human tragedy, even though one of those armorers who died at the scene of the explosion was a former StB agent. I'd really like to know how these people died, because as we know, the ammo really can't go off on its own. They were armorers, they were in place, one of them was an agent of the Communist St.B. I was really wondering if we could find out where their bodies were found or where their bodies were found, if it was in the epicenter of the explosion, or if it was 100 meters away from him, how come they both died when they weren't in the epicenter of the explosion, if it was in the epicenter of the explosion, so what were they doing there, the armory, one of which was an agent of StB. For me, personally, with all the tragedy that has been exposed to their families, this is a legitimate investigative question, and we must have the courage to ask that question. So what's the deal with the electronic trail, any absent minister or Prime Minister? What's the deal with the electronic trace at IMEX? Does it exist? And the attorney is lying? Or doesn't it exist? And do we know where the bodies of the two poor weaponsmen were found? Was it in the epicenter of the explosion, 100 meters away, 200 meters away? If it was far from the explosion, why did they both die? I'm curious about all this. Perhaps the allies are also interested, and therefore they are not responding, or it is simply that it is an awkward national game about who will finish Temelín, and here the gentlemen and ladies of the democratic bloc who have prepared this filth have misconstrued themselves with their colleagues in the European Union and in NATO, because no one is responding to it. Nobody. If it has been confessed somewhere in Poland - Poland will at every opportunity terminate some Russian agents or some Russian diplomats, because Russian-Polish relations are just tense. But who supported us differently? Any major statements from the Commission, someone from the European Union, someone from NATO? And another - it has already been said here from the mouth of Mr. Christian Bartošek, who would like to use this situation immediately to introduce a hard censorship of information from Russia and anyone who reports on something from Russia and wants information from Russia will automatically be referred to as a disinformer. His speech made it clear: Let us prepare for censorship, all information from Russia will be wrong, all will be labeled misinformation, and we simply have to fight against Rus giving us any information at all. [[18.00 hours]] If I add to this purely russophobic remarks by the Minister of Culture, who here speaks of typical Russian qualities, and also demonstrates this by some quotations from Tolstý, then try to talk about typical gypsy qualities, Mr. Culture Minister, or typical black qualities, Minister of Culture, or typical Jewish qualities, absent Minister of Culture. This side of the House and this side of the House would eat you alive. [[shows right and left]] But since you're going to stand up rudely here as a proper noncultural primitive, you're going to start talking about typical Russian qualities, so you're going to get a little applause from the crazy on your part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u41	[[He's coming in.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, I have to interrupt you. On the basis of the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, we will now focus on the electoral points, so I must interrupt not only you but also the discussion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u42	It's round two.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-001-530.u43	Thank you, and I'd like to ask you to perform the usual disinfection of the pitch. [[Dissipation in progress.]] In the meantime, I will introduce you to the apology of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, who apologizes for the rest of today's work. I am just pointing out that we have no agreement on how we will continue to discuss this point. During the elections, the presidents of the MPs will agree on how we will continue today and at what stage we will be dealing with the completion of this item. Now, in accordance with the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, I am opening a point.
