ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u1	5. The draft law amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on crisis management and amending certain laws (crisis law), as amended, and Act No. 243/2020 Coll., on the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Municipal Police to prosecute violations of crisis measures and emergency measures ordered in connection with the demonstration of the occurrence of SARS CoV-2 coronavirus in the territory of the Czech Republic /German press 1111/2/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered to us as the House press 1111/3. I welcome Senator Václav Láska among us and I ask that the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek once again comment on the Senate resolution on the rejection of this proposal. Minister, just a moment. [[It's ringing to calm down in the hall.]] I'm sorry, but we can't keep going because we can't hear you. We can't hear each other. It can't be like this! I ask you once again to move any discussions into the foyer and allow the normal course of our negotiations. Thank you. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u2	Thank you. So once again, colleagues, I remind you that even in this case, I only represent the indisposed Minister Jan Hamáček. And since, of course, this thing can't take a reprieve, I'll take the liberty of bringing it in. I will not go back to the debate that took place here in the House because the House has already approved this bill once. Maybe I'll just remind you of the basic thing. Here, this amendment, this amendment, has been discussed and approved because the existing text of the crisis law does not take into account and does not take into account all aspects of enforcement, compliance with crisis measures when crisis situations need to be addressed. Today, the Crisis Act does not explicitly address the obligations of legal and entrepreneurial individuals to comply with the conditions of crisis measures, and therefore has come to this adjustment. The aim of the amendment is to change the legislation so that it is possible, above all, to punish legal and business individuals for violating crisis measures, then also to entrust control of compliance with these crisis measures to the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and, at the same time, to allow them to impose sanctions for possible violations in the form of orders on the spot. This is not a new power, it is only a generalisation of the power that they already have in relation to the measures related to the epidemic of covid under Act 243/2020 Coll. So I think this is the basic thing that was presented here, what the House has agreed on. And I just want to remind you that the proposal is under discussion in the regime of legislative emergency. Of course, I would like the House to confirm its decision today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. I beg Senator Václav Láska to take the floor. [[There's noise in the hall, Members are debating outside the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Senator, please wait. There's no way to continue the negotiations here. I'm asking for peace again, we can't hear each other, we can't continue the negotiations. Especially those who are discussing this in front of the speaker's desk to stop, this is really not the way to go. Thank you. Please, Senator, you have the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u4	Mr President, Minister, honourable Members, thank you for the floor. As far as the press is concerned, the Senate discussed it in its plenary after the proposal to reject it was passed on two of its committees, both on the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Defence and Security and on the Committee on Constitutional Law. So I guess it wasn't surprising to discuss the plenary when even the plenary approved the proposal to reject this bill, 59 votes out of 68. In this case, the Senate's view was quite clear. I will try to give you at least a brief presentation of the reasons for this decision by my fellow Senators and Senators. Although the law regulates several different things, the issue of imposing fines on legal persons up to CZK 3 million for violating government regulations was probably the biggest subject of discussion in the Senate. The most common argument made at the Senate plenary, which perhaps the most colleagues and colleagues heard, was the legal argument. We had a discussion there about whether the arguments we were making were legal or political, so I still took the liberty of dividing it up by the first argument I thought was legal, which was repeated. And it can simply be summed up in such a way that if we want to punish someone - and in this case relatively severe sanctions - the person concerned must know precisely the rules to be followed and for which the infringement will be sanctioned. In our view, this requirement has not been fulfilled in this law. This is due, on the one hand, objectively, to the fact that government regulations are not issued in the same precise manner as laws or regulations. They must be published more efficiently, they become effective very quickly, they are not so precise as to publish them, and the legislative quality of their texts is lower when there is not as much time to prepare them objectively as there is for classical legislation. However, a substantial part of the senators and senators also considered that this condition was not fulfilled either because the government cannot issue regulations. I say it with all my love and tenderness in my voice so that someone doesn't feel like I sprayed him with hate. In our opinion, the government's decrees are often obscure, full of exceptions that are unclear. Even after the application of specific measures, we are still discussing what is forbidden or not. In some cases, different views on what is valid or not valid are held by individual government ministers. In some cases, it is almost impossible to orientate yourself in what is true. As an attorney, I can tell you that, after every new measure I've been given, entrepreneurs turn to me and ask me to interpret what they're allowed to do, what they shouldn't do, how they should behave. And they want to interpret it not to circumvent these government measures, but they want to interpret it so that they can follow them. Even entrepreneurs who want to act rightly simply don't know how. In this situation, in our view, it cannot be allowed for entrepreneurs to be threatened with a fine of up to CZK 3 million for violating such unclear rules. In the Senate, we also considered discussing an amendment that would reduce the upper limit of the possible fine imposed. But in view of the fact that such proposals have fallen here in the House, you have discussed them, you have rejected them, you have expressed your will, so we did not consider it appropriate to send back an amendment to the House, to which you have already expressed your will. That is why we have decided and preferred to vote on the proposal to reject the law as a whole. Let me remind you of one more opinion that has been expressed in various forms during the Senate negotiations. In general, let me not just talk about government and opposition all the time, but we, as politicians in general, are fighting for people's trust. And frankly, we're not very good at it. In the current situation, there is more chaos and uncertainty than calm and overview. People are confused - and I repeat again that even those who want to act rightly and follow the rules sometimes don't know how. He doesn't know what he's paying, he doesn't know how to interpret it. I think we need to explain to people a lot more, give information, justify our actions, and that's not entirely easy. It may seem to some people that punishing them is much easier. But in the long run, it's a path that won't pay off. We often use the motto: Together we can do it. But this password is mainly about trust, not punishment. Finally, let me say that the Senate considers that a form of sanctions for legal persons will have to be introduced later into the crisis law. That's not a dispute. But we also believe that we must first learn to issue regulations so that it is clear and understandable. We also think that it is appropriate to consider reducing the upper limit of sanctions so that entrepreneurs do not live and operate under the threat of liquidation sanctions. Finally, we think that some conditions for imposing sanctions could also be added to the law. For example, so that sanctions can only be imposed for breach of that government regulation, which will be in full effect for at least seven days. These are roughly the reasons for which fellow Members of the Senate have decided and voted in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u5	Thank you. The rapporteur of the guarantee committee was Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who was the Security Committee. Is he interested in expressing himself? He doesn't. Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Mr Dominik Feri is entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Senator, dear colleagues. It is clear that there is not as much support for this proposal as there is for others' proposals. And the reason we actually meet here today is because the government is just adamant. He says we want the whip to legal persons, we want to punish those innkeepers who were desperate to open up, so we're gonna put $3 million in there. We suggested that the fines be not so strict as not to be liquidated. But let's stop at that. In the current situation, after many months of actually starvation and many months of the fact that entrepreneurs do not have income that would be sufficient to maintain their trade, the liquidation penalty is also 10,000, as well as 20,000. And then the minister comes in here and says, "We're going to put in $3 million, arbitrarily $3 million." That's completely absurd. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, realise, through Mr President, what kind of signal we are giving?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u7	You're right, Mr. Ambassador. I ask once again for peace, let me hear what Mr. Feri has to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u8	If the government were to devote such energy to explaining the measures to justify them, as it devotes energy to punishing entrepreneurs, I would come here, and I would commend you, and I would not criticize you as you often complain here. But I'm afraid that didn't happen. We have proposed amendments so that the fines are lower so that they are not liquidated. What did the government do? She turned it down for strength. And then there has to be some way of poaching support across the MPs, we're surrounded here: you support it, you don't support it. The signal you're sending is clear: we want a whip, we don't talk to you, you find out what's rightfully, what's wrong, we want to punish you. We're not going to explain anything to you, either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now with priority rights, President Zbyněk Stanjura, then Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u10	Thank you for the floor. Well, for our MP's club. We identify with the Senate's opinion. I think the Senate's approach was correct. I looked again at the results of the vote when we voted on it for the first time in the Chamber of Deputies. The entire opposition was opposed or abstained. This means that only three political parties - the YES movement, social democracy and communists - have come to the votes for the disproportionate punishments for entrepreneurs. If I wanted to vote for a moderate dictionary, I would say that it was presumptuous of the government to put forward such a proposal and vote for it. Otherwise, I would have chosen a much more appropriate word, but given the environment I'm in, I'm not gonna vote for it. And now quite practically. The law came to the House on December 7th, and we discussed it on December 9th. Those who remember the appearance of the Interior Minister at that time felt that if the senát did not approve this on December 10th, there would be total chaos in the Czech Republic. Today is January 19th, and what happened without this law? Nothing at all. Nothing at all. We don't need the law. So I can say for our club that we will not vote in favour of this law and that we agree with what the Senate has told us, and what Mr. Dominik Feri just said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u11	Mr Radek Koten will now respond with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Members, ladies and gentlemen, in this law sanctions are imposed in such a winding-up way that this may not even be possible. On the one hand, we forbid a lot of businessmen from doing business, destroying the businesses they have, not allowing them to pay their employees. We're giving them some charity to replace the income loss, but unfortunately, it's not going very well. Now, as a bonus, we're going to impose a $3 million fine. You can't be serious. The SPD is definitely against these liquidation fines mentioned in this law, and we will certainly not vote in favour of such liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u13	Thank you. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, who is currently the last to be entered in the debate, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you if you currently know exactly what businessmen and businessmen are to observe. Because I admit I don't know. Because it's such a mess that you don't get a chance to get your bearings. Do we know whether to sell paper goods in supermarkets or not? We don't know. We don't know if it's a basic product range or not. It's quietly tolerated, but then someone can get a ticket for it. And in a situation like this, when regulations change from one day to the next every week, it's definitely not clear, it's definitely not predictable, so it's not possible to impose winding-up fines or scare people with them. Let's change that approach, let's go the way of positive motivation, let's say - and let's realize - that fighting the coronavirus together is worth it to businesses, that they'll all just do their best to get through it together, and let's not try it over fear. Fear will never work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Is anyone else reporting for the debate, please? No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. Interested in the final words? Doesn't the minister, Mr. Senator? [[No. I don't.]] They don't either. [[Ambassador Chvojka is applying for the floor.]] President of the ČSSD club, Mr Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u16	Good evening, colleagues. I'd like to ask for a break at the ČSSD club meeting within 18 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u17	Yes, I accept this request. I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until 18 o'clock at the meeting of the ČSSD MEP's club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. The time for the meeting of the ČSSD Membership Club has ended. Before we go any further, the chairman of the club ČSSD, Jan Chvojka, applied for the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u19	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm sorry, maybe the break was longer than it needed. Maybe I'll just say fair and square that we've calculated and we don't have the necessary number of votes because five people in the government coalition are, unfortunately, under quarantine. Therefore, I would like to propose, in a procedural manner, that we vote on interrupting this point until the next meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-005-005.u20	Yes, there has been a procedural proposal that we will immediately vote on. The motion is that we interrupt this item until the next meeting. At the same time, there is a proposal for a check-out. I checked you all out, please log in with your cards again. Now, we are ready for the vote. I would remind you that we will vote on President Chvojka's proposal to interrupt this item until the next meeting. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 25. 163 Members registered, for 104, against 49. The motion was accepted. I am therefore interrupting the discussion of this point. Now, let me introduce you to my apologies. Minister Jan Blatný apologizes from 6:00 pm to the end of the day on account of urgent work issues, Martinů apologizes for today's work, Mr Martin Kupka and Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes from 5:00 pm, for the time when we are discussing the laws passed by the Senate, for health reasons, and Minister Schillerová apologizes for today's meeting from 5:30 pm for working reasons. Now we're going to go with point number
