ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u1	35. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended /German press 1230/ - second reading We interrupt this item in the general debate on Friday 9 July 2021 at the 111th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would remind you that we ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a committee of guarantee. The resolution has not been submitted by the Committee. Please take the seats at the rapporteur's table to the plaintiffs, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. Mr. Jan Chvojka has the floor. Mr. Jan Chvojka is not present? [[It's not.]] He is not present, so the application is forfeit, and now Mrs Pavla Golasowská has the floor. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský will be ready. I ask for peace in the Chamber so that the Member may speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Beautiful afternoon, colleagues. Allow me to present to you a few amendments to the proposed pension insurance law. The amendments that I am proposing here were tabled by KDU-ČSL three years ago, but the MPSV rejected them at that time with partial amendments and prepared a comprehensive bill. Unfortunately, this has not happened to date, and especially vulnerable or endangered persons, such as disabled, widowed, mothers who raised children, are still waiting for financial awards. The first proposal concerns the reward of mothers who raised children. Like I said, we designed this three years ago with the idea that the proposal was off the table. Then we always talked about him at the Fair Pensions Commission. The fact that our proposal was then taken over by ČSSD is certainly commendable, but I must point out that it is really our proposal and those women are still waiting for the award. I must point out that this is not only a financial award, but it is an award and a social one, when these women are already about 3,000 less retired than men today, because they were at home with children, their career ran out and maybe they didn't get into the original job, or they got into work with lower financial appreciation. So this is where we propose 500 to moms for a raised child. But there are conditions when a woman personally cares for or cares for a child at the age of at least 10 years of age. However, if a woman has taken up child education after the eighth year of her age, the condition of child education is fulfilled if a woman personally cares for or cares for a child at the age of at least five years of age. I must also point out that if we were to approve this amendment, so by increasing the financial appreciation for these women, they would not have to ask for benefits from state social support, such as housing or livelihood contributions, and so on, which I think is certainly humiliating for them and that they certainly deserve financial appreciation for work and also for raising future taxpayers. So that's my first amendment. The second amendment concerns a reduction in the conditions for obtaining a widow's or widow's pension in the sense that the necessary period of insurance for a spouse from which a widow's or widow's pension would otherwise be granted by one year. This is due to the strict definition of the conditions for obtaining entitlement to widows or widows' pensions, because it is often the case that widows or widowers do not obtain widows' or widowers' pensions because of a few merely missing months remaining for their husband to meet the conditions for granting an old-age pension. This often puts them in a difficult financial situation after their husband's death without being entitled to help from the state. These situations are often the subject of the decision of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to eliminate the hardness of the law, but this solution seems unsystematic and undesirable from the point of view of legal certainty. Therefore, this amendment. Another third amendment concerns the continuance of disability and widow's pension, and this means that in the event of two social events, this is invalidity and the loss of a spouse is proposed to grant both a disability and a widow's or widow's pension in full, because the accumulation of both difficult situations makes it very difficult or even makes it impossible for the persons concerned to take care of themselves without the significant social contribution of the State. My fourth amendment concerns an extension of the period for which a widower or widower may not prove that the conditions for further entitlement to a widow's or widow's pension are fulfilled. This amendment thus responds to the social situation of widows or widowers who, as I have already said, are neglected or also a vulnerable group and who are not given sufficient support by the State in particular in situations where they have lost a life partner, husband or wife. We know that widows, in addition to the worries of the funeral and the costs of it that are not small today, also deal with estate issues such as inheritance proceedings, the unblocking of the survivor's financial cards, the settlement of mortgage or loan payments, the payment of the apartment rent and other situations related to the deceased's departure. So far, the spouses have had two incomes, and now the survivor has to make his way through the income of one. If the surviving person does not care for the careless children or does not care for a person close to or not of a certain age, he receives a pension for only one year, which is often a very short period of time to resolve the above-mentioned difficult financial situation without major financial damage. Often they are women who have worked and worked, raised children who are already adults, and the deceased also worked for 25 or more years and contributed to insurance. [[14.40 hours]] And my last, fifth amendment concerns an increase in the percentage range from 50 to 60 per cent, in the case of an old-age or disability pension. I would like to ask you very much then in the third reading to support these amendments, because, as I say, these vulnerable groups of people in our society, whether they are mothers who raised children or disabled or widowed, are certainly waiting for support from the state, and, as I say, the MPSV has not introduced any comprehensive proposal to this day, and we know that since the end of the term is coming, there is no pension reform waiting for us. So please and I ask you, as I asked you in 2018, three years ago, to support these amendments, which we have loaded here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and which you have not supported, so I beg you in the name of those people who are waiting for it. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u3	Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who is not present, will now appear, so the application will be forfeit, and now Mrs Alena GajdůGajdůšková, who is not present either, will appear. So now, Mr Tomáš Martínek will speak and Mr Marek will prepare himself Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see the valorisation mechanism be fair and so that we do not have to interfere with it every year, for example in the course of the election fight. I would really like the mechanism to be fair in itself, legal valorisation will be sufficient and worthy of all seniors. Unfortunately, I would like to say that a non-systemic thing is being created here, which we would like or should in some way prevent, just as it did this year. In December, if someone retired early, he had a higher pension than his peers who retired several months later. I think that's an injustice that shouldn't happen in the pension system. There should be a correction, and the valorisation mechanism should respect all of this. I therefore propose an amendment, which seeks to at least partially compensate the injustice to those who want to continue to contribute to society, want to be active, want to continue to be partly involved in the work process, by increasing the coefficient at work in retirement or re-serving. The current pension scheme provides for a fixed retirement age, which is gradually moving towards the retirement age of 65 years for years since 1971. Just as there must be an early retirement option, especially for workers in a physically demanding sector, there must be an option for people who want to fully or partially continue working life. We believe that the existing bonification of these people is insufficient. In some cases, the return on income from working pensioners is also a long 75 years' pension. Therefore, we propose to at least symbolically increase the percentage of the pension base for working pensioners as follows: for workers entitled to an old-age pension and not receiving a pension, from 1,5 per cent to 1,6 per cent of the calculated base, for workers receiving half of the old-age pension from 1,5 per cent to 1,6 per cent of the calculated base, for workers receiving the entire old-age pension from 0,4 per 0,6 per cent of the calculated base. The aim of the proposal is to positively motivate active citizens who want and are able to work even after reaching retirement age. These people should then be adequately bonified. Higher motivation will increase the number of voluntary or over-serving seniors, which can have a long-term positive impact on the state's income. This would then be beneficial not only for the working elderly, but also for the long term for the revenue of the state budget, if more seniors worked at retirement age. The whole proposal would not be significantly expensive; the cost of the whole proposal is in tens of millions of crowns per year. I think that these are acceptable costs to show that we also think of those people who choose to contribute to society, and we will try to correct the injustice that is going on, and that valorisation is set wrong, and at the turn of the year, there is really injustice for tens of thousands of seniors, who will only start a few months later. I would also like to say that I am proposing a second amendment. This is a proposal where we want to extend the possibility of exercising the excluded period for parents caring for children under seven years of age. One of the parents will be able to exclude periods of child care up to the age of seven. The parent will thus be able to work part-time for a longer period of time and take care of the child without adversely affecting the amount of the pension when calculating the percentage of the salary. At present, after his fourth year of life, the child - caring parents' income is counted against their average lifelong income, which will then be negatively reflected in the amount of caregivers' pensions. The proposal is not discriminatory, both men and women will be able to apply the excluded period. However, the condition is that only one parent can apply the excluded period. The budgetary implications of the proposal will be limited in the first years, as the possibility of a longer excluded period in the care of the child will concern only newly granted pensions. In the Commission's material for fair pensions, the expenditure associated with this measure is estimated at a maximum of CZK 100 million per year in the first years since the introduction. The trend of increasing these expenditures is gradually estimated and the full budgetary impact can be expected according to this material in about 30 years. This adjustment of the pension scheme, which promotes part-time work and a reduction in the difference in the amount of pensions for persons caring for children and others, was largely in agreement with the Commission for Fair Pensions. In view of the fact that this is not an expensive change in the coming years and that it is a clear change that supports the fact that people caring for future taxpayers will not be penalized when calculating their assessment base for, for example, receiving a lower wage at a time when they were caring for children, I think that is an amendment that deserves your attention and your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u5	Mr Roman Onderka will now appear, because Mr Marek Výborný asked me if he could speak last. Mr Roman Onderka is not here, so Mr Roman Sklenák will now appear and Mr Jiří Mašek will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues. Allow me to present to you the amendment introduced by the Interior Minister Jan Hamáček into the system. Since he's not here today, I'd like to represent him. [[14.50 hours]] The proposal responds to a situation where the average female pension is now about 13 % lower than the average male pension, namely in May of this year it amounted to CZK 2,207 in absolute terms. This difference, of course, is mainly due to the fact that women's incomes at an economically active age were lower than men, and because the link between retirement pensions and contributions is directly proportional, so the pensions are lower. Of course, the reasons for this situation are different, but one of the most important ones is that mostly women are those who take care of their children and are with them on parental leave, and after returning to work, they are hard and long catching up on the level of wages and salaries of their colleagues who have not cared for their children. And I would say not only from the Commission's negotiations on fair pensions, but also from other forums where this issue is discussed, it seems that there is something to do with this situation across the House of Wills. This is also my response, through the President, to Mrs Golasowská, who says it was them who submitted this proposal three years ago. In this case, I wouldn't be here to compete with who came up with what first and who second and who third. Indeed, it is clear from all the discussions that politicians are aware of this situation and are willing to do something about it. In the long run, proposals have been made to sign children to parents and compose a fictitious basis for example women who are on parental leave and so on. The problem, if I am to speak for myself, the KDU-ČSL proposal was genuinely in the way it was written, because it is also necessary to realise how many people are involved in such an adjustment and in what condition the systems of the Czech Social Security Administration are in which the data are often not recorded. If we take the view that education is not just about women, although it is mainly about women, but of course there are also men who cared for their children, and it would be discriminatory if they were not granted it, but the Czech Social Security Administration does not at all record men who were on parental leave or, for example, widowers who were caring for their children. It is necessary to prepare the systems for this and it is necessary to guarantee that if we approve some legislative regulation, it will be feasible in practice. And that is what I have always pointed out, at least if I am to speak for myself, I did not support the proposals that have been put forward here. So the proposal I'm going to make in a detailed debate suggests that the parent for every child he cared for mostly - that is to say, between the parents, whether the father or the mother, the one who mostly cared for the child, that is, in practice, the one who spent most of the parental leave with him - was awarded 500 crowns a month in retirement for each such raised child. So much in the briefness of the presentation of this proposal, otherwise, of course, as it is inserted into the system, contains a justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u7	I'm begging you, I'm a little... I have it on the board differently than it was, because Mrs GajdůGajdůšková and Mr Onderka were not here, so unfortunately you are now included in the end, because you were not, when I called you, in order. And now we've got a little bit of a mix-up here, and now they're adjusting it here in the programming department. Mr Tomáš Martínek has already spoken, so it is settled there, and now Mr Marek Výborný came to me with priority, but Mrs Golasowská and Mr Bláha are going on factual points. So now the order will be: Mrs Golasowská to the factual, Mr Bláha to the factual, then Mr Marek Výborný goes with priority, and then Mr Jiří Mašek, Member Valachová, Mr Kaňkovský, then the two rejected applications - Mrs Gajdůšková and Mrs Onderka - and then Mrs Aulická. I'm specifically saying this because they're listening to us in the organizational department right now, so they can line it up like this. Now Mrs Golasowská has two minutes in fact, then two minutes in Mr Jiří Bláha, with priority rights Marek Výborný. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just very briefly, because I don't want to delay. Response to Mr Sklenák, through Mr President. It's not about the competition that's first, second, third, I didn't even say it like that. I said it was our proposal that you guys boycotted because you said it couldn't be counted, that it couldn't be calculated, so that the 500 women would be admitted to being a raised child. It's been a long debate. We've been putting this on the Fair Pensions Commission for two years, and it seems unfair to me when you say it's some kind of competition. It's not about the competition and who's going to submit what, but it's about making it for the people, the moms that are waiting for it. I think that's the way to admit it and that it's fair, and that you guys were actually boycotting this place. As I was saying, we presented it in 2018, and if it had been agreed by then, those moms would have had it by now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u9	Mr Jiří Bláha is now prepared for the factual remark and for the factual remark Mr Roman Sklenák will be prepared. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to enter into this with one opinion, and the fact that we have an end to the parliamentary term here, and I really do not think that it is happy that, under the impression that we have to do anything at all costs, we bring into an already problematic sector or law or things that help people to live in some way in retirement, other and other changes. We are in a state that if we favor someone now, others will be dissatisfied that they are disadvantaged. Like the fact that someone decided to spend their whole life as a waiter on the black, and the other one worked officially for less money, so the waiter had a choice, he could decide to do something else, he made his choice. He's got a really low pension today, whether it's a woman or a man, and the other one's got a higher pension. And now we're constantly catching up with those who have a low pension to have it higher, and so on, and it has no concept. For me - I have told the Minister several times, I have written to her several times, I have asked her several times: there is a need to make a strong pension reform, which, in conjunction with other reforms in the whole social administration, must help us start acting completely differently as citizens in order to start thinking about it, of course, to simplify the whole system. I have asked the Minister several times that I have prepared a pension reform, that we need to start talking about it. You didn't even listen to me, you didn't invite me, and it's wrong for me. It's just that if we really want to fix something to make it work, then we need a major change. [[Time!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u11	Mr Roman Sklenák will now make a point of fact and prepare for Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u12	Thank you. By your help, even to Mrs Golasowská esteemed colleague. I really don't want to argue here, but I just can't raise my hand for something I'm convinced is wrong written. When I look at your amendment, honourable Member, it contains the sentence 'the percentage of women's old-age pensions is increased by CZK 500' and so on. It is simply not possible to put another regulation into the legal system for men and another regulation for women, it is not possible, it is unconstitutional. And that's why I say, with the idea of appreciating women, mostly women, for caring for children, it's the right thing to do, we agree with it over the long term as much as most of the House, but it has to be written in a way that's right, and so does the efficiency. [[15.00 hours]] Just like I said, we need to prep the systems for that. They're millions of people, you can't count on it to turn out somehow. And that's why it's not possible, you're proposing efficiency on December 31st, we've got that in less than six months, it's just a short period of time. So I'm just explaining honestly, believe me, honestly, why it wasn't possible to raise your hand in the past or in my view today for your amendment. and why we present it in another, in my opinion, in the right form. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u13	Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u14	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, members of the government, colleagues, in response to a esteemed colleague, through Mr President, Roman Sklenák. It really isn't a competition about who, when, how. But on the other hand, if your Minister, who is aware that the Czech pension system is not in good shape for three years, I suspect on June 29, 2018, when we had the first amendment to the pension insurance law in this parliamentary term, if she had come here in those three years, whether with a draft pension reform or at least with some changes, and it is the appreciation of mothers' women, we would certainly not be performing at this moment. But we then tabled the amendment in 2019 and even later, and in that time certainly the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs had the opportunity, from your point of view, to present our proposal poorly legislatively written or poorly written legislative proposal itself. And now, a few months before the election, you're filling the Minister's posts on social media, how you came up with something absolutely amazing, and how it is you who are the only ones who care about having a fairer pension. In that sense, I think it's sad. This means that the possibility was here, the idea was already in 2018, the government had a clear opportunity to grasp this idea and it was not so legislatively difficult to complete it and prepare the systems for it. It certainly didn't take three years. And that's what our beef is about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u15	Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now make a point of fact, so far the last application, so that Mr Jiří Mašek is still prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I don't think this is about who filed it right now, even though I understand it's before the election. I'm more asking who or what's a raised child. I don't know. Some say that she is a mother or a father, which is missing there, she is right, through you, Mr Sklenák, because the Czech Social Security Administration has confirmed to us that she does not, at all, register, and I ask where is Grandma, where is the grandfather, who is raising the child. And one proposal is a five-year-old child, the other one is a ten-year-old. And I'm asking if someone goes into prison and after five or ten years, the baby goes to a foster home, so a mother or a parent gives an honest statement and takes a 500? As another matter, Mr Sklenák, by your means, says that it is necessary to set up systems for payment. I wonder when they're gonna be set up now that the ICT on the MPSV is in a crappy state. So I agree, we can't approve something we're not ready for, but let's go back to what's going on with the ICT systems. So what's a raised child? All we need is an honest statement that the mother, grandmother, grandpa, raised the child for five, ten years, and that it ended up somewhere in an institution or in a child's home, how are we going to deal with it? I'm very interested in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u17	Now I have two priority rights here, so wait for Mr Mašek - wait. KDU-ČSL Chairman Marian Jurečka goes first. Minister Maláčová volunteered as the second. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u18	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to say a few words here in the general debate on the proposals that we have tabled as KDU-ČSL. I'm going to start with the debate that's going on here, that's the question of supporting moms, some of the kids who raised children, they created today's productive generation, and unfortunately, our system knows one merit, and that's the merit of financial, so actually, by giving a small part of their lives to raise children at the expense of their careers, to rise in a ladder, to create a higher basis for calculating pensions, these parents are being punished. That's how the system works, you can say here whether it's constitutional or unconstitutional, but that's just the opinion of a Member, that's not a fact, that's what the Constitutional Court decides. However, I am also based on the fact that in the last year there is a clear conclusion from the Commission on Fair Pensions, which says: This parameter, which KDU-ČSL not only talks about, but presents it in this House for about the fourth time, we consider it one of the conclusions that we want to straighten out the historical injustice, which unfortunately is here in our system and is still not removed. There is a need to address the consequences, then there is also a need to address the causes of the current generation, and one solution to the causes is, for example, what we also propose to allow a common assessment base for spouses/partners for future pensions. But I am going back to the fact that, now that we are being criticized here, it is not perfectly written, so did colleague Vít Kaňkovský say how the Commission for Fair Pensions wants the Minister Jana Maláčová, who has started to talk about the 500 Moms in recent months, how does she intend to do so? I think the only way is to say, let's approve it, because, yes, we're talking about women in 90 x percent, and whether it's unconstitutional or not, let the Constitutional Court judge it, that's not why the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate are here. So so much for one of the key proposals plus, for example, for us, very important proposals to adjust widowing and widowing pensions. I do not know which of the Members knows in detail the rules for entitlement to a widow's pension, when the person can obtain it, how long he can have it at certain stages of life, age and so on. I must say that the system today is set really very, very unsocially, unfriendlyly, unfairly to people who get into this difficult situation of life. Plus, we're at the post-covid age today, where there's a huge number of families that suddenly lost one of their parents, so I'd really like you to take a look at those suggestions that relate to parameter modification - widow's, widow's pension - as well. It is a very important group of people, who are also very, very vulnerable in the social system. So on top of what my colleagues, my colleague Pavla Golasowská, Vít Kaňkovský, are already here. to justify it. I have primarily come here to justify the two proposals I have tabled in the general debate. There was one here last week very medially, socially discussed, which relates to a certain reparation of the injustice that has arisen here in the past, and this is a reduction in pensions for people we can call prominents, supporters, active supporters of the communist totalitarian regime in the Czech Republic in the last century. I don't know who you read it, I'll give it a brief explanation. The point is that, for the categories that the law lists, that is, from the members of governments to the then MEPs to, for example, active members of State Security, those people's time when they were in these positions would be excluded, not including the basis for calculating their pensions. The list of those persons would also be confirmed by the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, so there would be a certain check on whether these people are there rightly or not. The proposal envisages that the people might appeal against it, or the administrative courts would judge it, so there would be a rather rapid response to the fact that the person would really have the opportunity to say and prove: I am here on the register illegally. The reason that leads me to this is that these people actually received very often above-standard, above-average salaries at the time, they were people who persecuted hundreds of thousands of innocent people in the Czech Republic, often people who were very old, broke up families, did not take any consideration of human, social, we can talk about persecutions that took place in the 1950s or during the normalization period. And I think it's unfair that these prominent people here today have pensions that are over CZK 35,000, CZK 40,000, and people who couldn't study couldn't work in the profession they wanted, couldn't build their careers, so they couldn't possibly increase their basis for calculating future pensions, so these people often take below-average pensions today. That's what I think is about some kind of elementary justice. I can see the criticism that someone's saying it's late, but I still think it's better late than never. So I would like you to think about it so that we can support such an adjustment here and accept it in the Czech Republic. [[15.10 hours]] I also get questions about possible unlawfulness, unconstitutionality. I've also gone over cases of states that have made this kind of adjustment. It is Germany, Poland, Hungary, two Baltic Republics, Croatia, last Slovakia. The courts, including the Constitutional Courts, also judged it there. The European Court of Human Rights has also brought appeals from these countries, and they have complied with all these amendments. The European Court of Human Rights said: it is an instrument that a member country can use to deal with the past in these cases, so I would not be afraid at all. Honestly, I have inspired the Slovak way because we have a very similar legislative environment, we have here a very similar institution, such as the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, so that the elements here can be applied and used. We are talking about the number of people somewhere between 12,000 and 15,000 people in the Czech Republic, which would be affected by such possible adjustments. I beg you to try to consider the support of this proposal. At the same time, I have also received suggestions in recent days on the basis of the debate that this proposal launched, that there are people who can count on tens who, by being political prisoners, could not work, did not, perhaps, fulfil the legal obligation to work 35 years to get a pension. We have people here who have been proven to be persecuted by the regime at the time, and today they are not entitled to a pension at all. So I took the liberty of filing another amendment, which says that "the period of imprisonment between 25 February 1948 and 1 January 1990 is also considered to be a substitute period of insurance, provided that the decision on imprisonment has been completely or partially annulled under Act No. 119/1990 Coll., on judicial rehabilitation, as amended, or under Act No. 198/1993 Coll., on the legality and opposition of the Communist regime'. So I also try to respond to initiatives from practice that say there is a group of people who are really very harshly twice, repeatedly punished, not only by being x years or months or years illegally imprisoned, but not even yet entitled to a pension. In order to resolve this injustice, I would like to ask you to consider supporting these proposals. I will sign up for this in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u19	Now here I have factual remarks and two priority rights, which must wait for the actual ones. First of all, on factual remarks by Mr Jiří Bláha, Hana Aulická, Josef Hájek, Jaroslav Holík and then with priority rights by Minister Maláčová and Jakub Michálek. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, that's exactly what I was talking about. The more we think about who to give a larger contribution to, the more groups will arise that will report. Beautiful words have been said here about someone's choice of career and at that point in time for work progress, more money in the framework of remuneration, and thus more pension. But these people have paid even more taxes and have never touched any support within the family. But most importantly, they live without families today. They don't have children to take care of and help them in a difficult life situation. It was their choice. They have bigger pensions today, but they have no one to turn to. While those who raised children and raised them right, today, the family logically takes care of their parents. If not, it was a bad choice or a bad upbringing. But we have to consider the equal. Isn't the guy with the family who takes care of him better than the guy who's got the bigger pension, but he's got no one at all? The subject is extremely complex. And if we were talking about discriminated families here, then we could go to primary schools where it was common for the kids of the kulaks in the villages to have no chance of asserting themselves. Not only are we talking here, there was no opportunity to get into school, they didn't even get space in the collective because they were often judged. And it was not even just after the October revolution, but it was still in the 1960s, 1970s, when small towns were discriminated against by these families against those who tried to work politically. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u21	Mrs Hana Aulická will now speak on the point of fact and Mr Josef Hájek will prepare himself. Please, madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't know what to react to first. It seems a little demagogic to me here, whether from my fellow speaker or also from my colleague Jurečka, there is probably a huge, through you. Anyway, I think I still have a performance, I'm written, we'll see if I can get to it, but I'd like to get back to the substance of this law. I'm sorry, I just really want to take it up with my colleague Jurečka, maybe he'll explain it to me, his proposal, his amendment in particular, which he spoke about prominents. This means, as we have read it, as we think it really aims, it concerns actually new or new pension rights, but it mainly concerns judges, prosecutors, but also teachers who taught before 1989 and who solved the situation or more or less taught in accordance with the methodology of the then state. That means you're not completely telling the truth. And so, as they say in the media, as it's targeted, it probably has a slightly different subtext - I don't know, and on the other hand, it's unconstitutional. And you're really just playing the election campaign, don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u23	Mr Josef Hájek will now speak and Mr Jaroslav Holík will continue to comment on the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u24	Mr President, colleagues, pensions are always such an interesting subject, because almost everyone understands this, everyone comments on it. From my point of view, of course, pensions are often unfair. I am, I guess most of you know that I worked in mining, and I have a number of colleagues today, already deceased, who died a month before retirement, a week before retirement, a year before retirement. And what did he get? Anyway. Forty years he paid for the system, dusty lungs - he died. They said, son, unfortunately, it's a solidarity system, this guy gets nothing. Madam Secretary, you know, he gets nothing. And now we're discussing whether to add 500 kroner per child - yes, it has some kind of logic, but it's not systemic. I asked my colleague Aulická here if she had an inadaptable citizen who had ten children, cared for them for five years and then put them in her home if she was entitled to this allowance. According to her statement, if she was working, if she was working, then... maybe she'll explain it to me. That means I'd really like to have some information here as to whether the families who haven't cared for the children their entire lives are 100% concerned about whether they should be entitled. I'll thank you for the clarification. Anyway, from my point of view, I like the fact that these kids don't really give themselves away, but they just give back to their parents the care they've given them, in the form that has been discussed here before, and unfortunately from my point of view, it's wrong that they didn't, and that's the possibility for a working man to deduct from his tax base one percent from which he would give money to his parents. That means, if I've raised hardworking kids who make money, then if he makes $100,000, he can give one percent to his parents out of those taxes that maybe have $20,000, $30,000. [[Time warning]] That seems a lot more systemic to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u25	Time, Mr. Ambassador, please. Mr Jaroslav Holík, Mr Marian Jurečka, will now speak on the point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u26	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I am a memorial. I remember when we were in '89, or not us, but a number of people on Wenceslas Square, ringing the keys and screaming, "We're not like them! We're not like them!" What's today? It's been 30 years, we're sweeping the cobweb out of the closet and sweeping out the class enemies. And now I'm going to ask my fellow Jurečka, who remembers here, all those who have been associated with the previous regime must be punished by reducing pensions. Mr colleague, through Mr President, will these also be people who are the type of brother Josef Plojhar?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u27	Mr Marian Jurečka will now make a point of fact, and then Minister Maláčová is prepared with priority rights. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u28	Thank you. I would like, in a factual point, to respond to my colleague Aulická and now to the previous speaker, not to spread the truth, because the amendment that I tabled gives a clear list of the group of persons who may be concerned. It is not a punishment, it is an equalisation of an unfair situation where these people from prominent positions had a significantly higher assessment basis. And if you look at my press, the amendment, it's Section 19a of the Service. This applies to members of the Government, Members, it concerns employees or members of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, it also concerns employees of the Ministry of Interior, National Security, National Defence or the National Security Corps responsible - not all, but those who were responsible for the management of the National Security Corps departments, the State Security Unit, the Intelligence Administration of the General Staff of the Czechoslovak People's Army or the Border Guard. [[Ministry]] [[Ministry]] Those who drove them, who were responsible. Please read what it says, it's written in the explanatory note. There's nothing about any teachers or firefighters or anything. And it is also made clear that these people, if they do not agree to this, can prove to the ÚSTR if they were to do what was necessary in favour of dissidents, opponents of the regime, and will be removed from the register of those who will form the ÚSTR. So please don't make an impression here - I understand that, for example, in the ranks of supporters and voters of the Communist Party, this proposal logically provokes opposition, I understand - but don't say argumentative things that really aren't true. So it would concern your question as well as the Members who were Members, whether it was the Federal Assembly or the Czech National Council and so on. It would be about them, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u29	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now make a point of fact and will still be prepared for Mr Jiří Bláha. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. By your means, I would like to respond to my previous speaker. I think here he mixes pears with apples and brings deep strife into Czech society. Thirty years have passed, and we have all witnessed how the new regime after 1989, in the 1990s, dealt with a whole series of laws with the past, some of them still valid to this day and still apply, even though it was guaranteed that nothing like this would happen. Just to keep him informed, he might realize that at that time Members and legislators were not released for the performance of their duties, did normal civic employment in workshops and elsewhere, and were paid only by a symbolic reward for the Parliament meeting, which was usually held twice a year. The members of the Central Committee were not rewarded at all, they were people who worked normally in their civic jobs and only met at a meeting of the Central Committee and did not receive any remuneration for it. This thing that's being introduced here has a deep breath, and now forgive me, neo-fascism. And I think that in modern society, in today's society, this proposal has no basis, and I would not wish to go the way of the semi-fascist regimes that have been mentioned here in some countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u31	Mr. Jiří Bláha will now appear, Mr. Marian Jurečka, Mr. Marek Výborný and Jakub Michálek will be prepared for a point of fact. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, for God's sake, let's leave the past behind and look to the future! Let's talk about the proposals that a colleague has put forward here, how to solve so that we really have decent pensions, so that we don't abuse the whole social system and the whole pension system, and save money on it. All of this is in our hands, and it can be done in a simple way and by the motivation of today's future pensioners. The fact that we're going to keep looking back, who's ever what, and we're going to punish people backwards for something that happened 30 years ago, but we could go back hundreds of years and say, "We're going to collect spiritual property - we don't want that! We want to go forward, look forward, find new ideas, new procedures and, of course, prepare a great pension reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u33	Mr Marian Jurečka will now appear and Mr Marek Výborný will be prepared. We're still on factual notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u34	It surprises me a little, I think from these speeches that some Members don't quite know how to construct pensions and calculate them. Well, if the one concerned had it as an activity that was not his main profession, he did something else somewhere else, so it doesn't logically apply to the activity he was doing elsewhere. That's obvious. So please, don't screw it up again by saying, "We're gonna cut our pension off to someone who did some of his civic occupation and was somewhere turning around." He's not gonna deduct his pension from his job. But there were some who had this activity, such as ministers who had it as a major performance. Yeah, well, that's where it's gonna go down, that's logical. So don't put it on another plane again... And so, I admit, he's driving me crazy, I'll say it calmly, when some Communist party officials here say it's just something that hits a group of seniors who are actually such poor people, they would be affected by it. Well, let me just remind you, unfortunately, these people didn't take any crap with people who were severely ill, who were old, pregnant women, they were children before the 30s, 40s, 50s. There was no mercy at all. Killed people, dying of hard interrogations. So I'm just reminding you, and I'm going back to this: it's not punishment, it's an equalization of the injustice that arose here because these people enjoyed their activities, which were the repression of the then population. That's all. And it's done eight states that I've named here. I'm sure those states didn't do anything that was unfair, unfair, and it was reviewed by the courts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u35	Mr Marek Výborný will now speak on the point of fact and Jakub Michálek will prepare himself. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. By your means, I would like to say to my colleague Grospič that I would very much like him to leave the nomenclature Bolshevik dictionary he uses here, which is cut from the 1950s, when he is talking about some fascists or clerofašistes. Really, please, this doesn't belong here. When you say we're bringing in some sort of feud, I would like to warn you, my colleague, that you, or your predecessors, have brought in the Communist regime. And the proposal follows not the creation of some contention, but the settlement of historical injustices. Tell me, to what extent is it fair that the Communist regime's prominents today have twice as much pensions as those who have been persecuted by this Communist regime? Is that some sort of historical justice? On the contrary, this is the historic injustice and strife that you, or your communist predecessors, have brought into this society and which we just want to straighten out. Not punish, but straighten out what should have been straightened out a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u37	Jakub Michálek will now appear and Mr Stanislav Grospič will be prepared, and we are still on point. So please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. It hasn't been that long, about a few hours since we approved the situation of solar power plants here, where we approved an increase in taxation for some of those power plants. This is how we settled the undesirable situation that was here. Yes, someone's gonna get hurt, but we've come to the conclusion that this is fair. And I also do not understand why it should now be called into question that the leaders of the Communist regime, which, according to our laws, is criminal and illegitimate, who have taken high salaries because of having these functions and harming other people, have caused great injustice here, so that there is now to be some correction. I think it is perfectly logical that in today's ongoing system, the super-high pensions of former Communist officials will not be paid. And I ask you not to tarnish here the legacy of political prisoners or the victims of the Communist regime by trying to label it as some neo-fascism and rewrite the history of the Czech Republic and Czechoslovakia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u39	Mr Stanislav Grospič will now appear, so far the final factual application, so that she will then prepare herself with the priority right of Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u40	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and through you to both my previous speakers. I didn't label anyone, I didn't blame anyone, I was just trying to explain who took the pensions and who worked there. The fact was that the employees of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia had salaries significantly below average than the average in the national economy. This can be statistically traced. You're the one who brings up the feud. The one who splits the company, it's you. You're the one who's labeling her. And then I have to ask: where was the Czechoslovak People's Party? She was quite represented from all functions including ministerial functions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u41	Now with priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová and with priority rights will then be prepared by the chairman of the Pirát Club Jakub Michálek and then by the Minister of Culture Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond to some previous speakers. I know the debate has moved on, but let me make a few comments. As for the KDU-ČSL proposal for pensions to be withdrawn from the representatives of the previous regime, I think that really 32 years after the Velvet Revolution, according to KDU-ČSL, which I think is a traditional party that should have a responsibility to think in the long term, so I don't know. I can see that we have much more serious problems in this country, the huge problems that await us, and these are things that... I just don't understand why 32 years after the revolution these issues are being dealt with. When I'm just wondering what scares me personally, besides the fact that we have a huge budget deficit here, an ageing population that will be extremely bothering us next years and decades, we have increasing social inequalities. We have continued digitization and automation of the labour market, which revolutionizes our labour market completely, and a lot of people are likely to lose their jobs in the coming years and decades. Climate change still hasn't given way to pandemics. These are all things that we are not discussing in the Chamber of Deputies, but we are discussing these proposals that should or should not have been, let the legislators decide, 32 years ago. As far as the debate is concerned, who proposed it first or who was the first to compensate for lower pensions for women, it is true that KDU-ČSL proposed it three years ago. Yes, that's true, but I can assure you personally that since we are here to calculate that I founded a civil society in 2012 because of this issue, and logically, when I became a minister, I started to deal with it. That is why I set up the Commission for Fair Pensions as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and that is why we have submitted an adjustment that is discussed across the political spectrum and is also well written. I do not agree that in this law, as KDU-ČSL wrote it, there should be a special arrangement for women, because I am also personally written by single daddies, that they are very happy that we do not discriminate against men, because there are numerous cases in this country where mostly fathers cared for children, because my mother has decided to leave the family. And that would be so unfair if they didn't get the 500, that would really be very discriminatory. So please, if you can't write it in conformity with the Constitution, don't get upset about it. But unfair pensions or lower wages because women are still primarily focusing on care and on the route, so that is a huge problem, and instead of arguing about who came with it first, let's figure out together how to convince other political parties to support it, because the difference of 3,000 between the average pension of a woman and the average pension of a man is really a huge challenge, and I say in the long term that old age poverty in the Czech Republic unfortunately has a feminine face. And if we don't do something about it, there will be far worse lives for hundreds of thousands of people in our country, especially older people. So that's why we're proposing this, and let's stop arguing about petty things one day, and let's just find a way to push it together. After all, that is what two amendments to social democracy are all about. Let us finally straighten out injustice with challenging professions. We want people who have worked their whole lives and have their health ruined because of it, so that they can retire early without getting their pension reduced. The principle is simple: every 10 years worked a year earlier. And the other thing is-- let's deal with lower pensions for those who are financially stranded due to care. I think 500 is the minimum. Let's join together for that purpose and work it out together. We are going to do this as Social Democrats, we are going to contact you next week and next week and we are going to convince you that we are really going to settle this injustice together, because it is so unfair that women have 3,000 on average lower pensions. And that is where I would follow up with Mr Kaňkovský. Mr Kaňkovský says how it is after three years. Ambassador, I believe you lived in a different country than I did. As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I have dealt with the consequences of the pandemic in particular for the last year and a half. I have 12 laws still unnegotiated in the House, 12 key laws from medical review service to novels... now we're going to discuss an amendment to the Social Services Act. It's not like we haven't done anything in three years, and now we're gonna remember. I mean, for God's sakes, there's been a year and a half of pandemics here. And I sure hope it's over. Unfortunately, there's no indication of that. We've put a lot of laws through here together. Only for the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, it was three dozen laws. Three tens! And we have more than a dozen unapproved. And I firmly hope that, perhaps on Friday, we will be able to make a joint amendment to the Children's Group Act, an amendment to the Children's Social-Legal Protection Act. I mean, there's a lot going on at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. And here's the screams that you've been doing for the last three years - it's in every law. This House has 500 unnegotiated laws, 500 unnegotiated! So let's just get together and find a way to handle these things so that the problems that I listed at the beginning can be solved and the Czech Republic can be prepared. As far as President Pastuchová is concerned about the alleged collapse of IT systems. Madam President, this alleged collapse concerns uninsurable benefits from the Labour Office. And nothing works, there's a vendor lock-in and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the current state of the Public Procurement Act is failing to compete with suppliers, but nothing works, all systems are working, benefits pay is working, but the new supplier is - after all, due to a restraining order against those systems at the moment - not in sight. As for the IT systems of the Czech Social Security Administration, they work perfectly. An electronic disability is proof of that, the payout last year in the order of several weeks is evidence. Well, we started a pension calculator last week after 30 years - after 30 years - many of you have already told me how perfect it works. I haven't officially introduced her yet because we wanted to test her for a month, but she's already being reported on. That pension calculator is something that's completely revolutionary. Finally - and each of you who tried - we finally have this tool here. This is a thing that has actually been talked about for a long time, and we at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, after an electronic failure, can finally put it into life. This means that no IT systems are collapsing, they are perfectly functional, and as far as insurance benefits are concerned, so there, in my opinion, is the problem of the Public Procurement Act, but everything is as it should be. [[15.40 hours]] And then on to the question of what a raised child is, the discussion of what a raised child is. I think it was... I don't know which fellow Member, if anyone who had 10 children and didn't work, will be entitled to education. Oh, my God, he's not gonna be entitled to education! Because I remind you once again that today, in order to receive a pension in the Czech Republic, you must have worked 35 years. So, Jesus Christ, how can anyone here ask the question that those who have 10 children will be inadaptable and get ten times 500? No, 35 years is a ticket to the retirement system today. Please keep that in mind, that's how it's written. 35 years must be worked. And from this optics, I would evaluate it all because raising children, managing a family and having so much work done is just a huge credit. And the fact that women today have a lower income of 3,000 on average is a huge injustice. And I am begging you to unite and finally fix the injustice after all these years of debate together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u43	That was Madam Secretary. Now I'll recapitulate the applications. On factual applications I have here: Marek Výborný, Jiří Bláha, Vít Kaňkovský, Jana Pastuchová. Jakub Michálek, Lubomír Zaorálek, Radim Fiala. So, Mr. Marek Výborný, please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't want to go back to my colleague Grospič, but I'm sure he has read the proposal well and he knows that this applies generally to all prominent Communist regime members, not just members of the KSČ. That's one thing. But to the secretary, if the secretary listens to me. [[The Minister is speaking with the rapporteur.]] Madam Secretary won't listen to me. [[It's okay.]] If there's something I want to say to her, I think I'm gonna talk to the wall here. [[The secretary is listening.]] Thank you. Madam Secretary, I wanted to thank you for finally inspiring yourself with the KDU-ČSL proposal about those moms, and please, nicely, try saying things the way they are. We have prepared this proposal sometime in June 2019 with an extension of course to men, daddies, not just to moms, so please don't say things here that are obvious untrue. I quite understand that you need to interpret this in some of your PR images right now, but it is so that the proposal here has been repeatedly put forward, and your argument that it was poorly prepared and the like, please, nicely, you know that it will not hold up. If something was to be wrong with him, it could easily have been corrected in the legislative process at second reading, it could have been approved long ago. But I'm glad you didn't - and I'm saying I never used the word stolen, I say inspired - that's a positive thing. We are grateful for this, and I believe that together we will succeed in doing what we say here for four years very actively and out loud - that it is unfair for mothers to be punished for raising children who then pay the whole system - finally, after four years, even this injustice towards mothers, or, indeed, against fathers who raised children. Thank you for your cooperation, I think it's really positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u45	Now factual remarks, so Mr Jiří Bláha, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Jana Pastuchová, and then Minister Jana Maláčová came forward. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u46	Well, forty-five years, I've been working. When I may be retiring, I'm 60, I count 80, I'll have some twenty more, so sixty-five years. And it can happen when I'm ninety and you're thirty more, that the MPs will meet and say, well, those entrepreneurs were crooks, they exploited people and they have high pensions, we'll take it away from them. Or they can come and say, these MPs had three times as much money as normal employees, but they can't have that kind of pension! That's what we're getting into. I don't know where we're going. Unnegotiated laws versus pension reform. Believe me, I'd rather we didn't discuss a single social law, but we'd have a new pension reform here. And believe me, there would be no such thing as women versus men we're discussing here today. It can never be equal to women's salary versus men's. There will be professions where women will have more, but there will be a lot more professions where men will have more, because a woman by her very nature is a fragile person and can't do the work in the mines, in the huts and so on and so on, on the roads. It doesn't really matter now. Functional system and pension calculator. I tried to sign up, and I really couldn't. I didn't get there in three days, I just didn't. But I'm not saying it's just the system that's wrong, Madam Secretary. Unfortunately, this is how we have digitization of the entire government because we overslept, and that's what we should change so that people have information, because the worst thing is that today's people don't have any information about what pension they could have, what they could save, how they should behave, so they can have more, and so on. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u47	Mr Vít Kaňkovský will now appear and prepare Mrs Jana Pastuchová. I'll read one apology. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes today from 16.30 to the end of the day. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u48	Good afternoon again. Yet, by your means, Mr President, to Minister Maláčová. Let's say it again. You said you had a covid here. We all had Covid here, of course. But let's recap. The House system remembers everything, we may not, especially you probably don't remember it, but in addition to the press that we discussed here, press 120, in 2018 in June, so here in June 2019 we discussed another government proposal, again about pension insurance, and there our amendment, as rightly said by colleague Marek Výborný, was re-submitted, and has already been presented in a modified form and included men. And again, Madam Secretary says wrong. [[Thought of from the newsstand.]] The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not developed any activity to amend this amendment and to approve it. And we blame you for not doing anything back then, long before the COVID-19 pandemic occurred, long before that. And now you're saying, let's join together and let's approve. And I promise you that as one woman and nine men, the KDU-ČSL will definitely support your moms, whether it be your proposal or our proposal, we don't care. But when you talk here, tell the truth. There were just a few options where this might have been the case, Mommy could have had at least two more years for 15,000, but you just didn't want it back then. You just killed it back then, and you have to admit that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u49	Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now speak to the factual remark and to the factual Minister Jana Maláčová. So please, Madame, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u50	Thank you very much. I'd just like the secretary to read the tape screen if I said somewhere that there's a system that's collapsing. I didn't say that. That's what you're saying. So I didn't say anything about any collapse system, I was talking about ICT in general on MPSV. I have to lean a little towards Mr Kaňkovský, through you, robbing the electoral program, because now that I have read that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - now I would correct myself, the ČSSD - has taken the euthanasia election point, which has been dealt with here for the fourth year by our Mrs Věra Procházková, it has really surprised me very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u51	Now, Minister Jana Maláčová will make a point of fact. So, Madam Secretary, your two minutes. Mr Jakub Michálek will be prepared with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u52	Thank you. One last time to Mr Kaňkovský. Let's take it easy. I really think that's a huge problem. We have it right as opposed to you, because you first wrote it on women, then you filled in the men, but the way it was regulated legislatively technically, so they would both get it, that's what you have to say. We also need to talk and go over the log where we pointed you out, but it doesn't matter anymore. Let's stop arguing here about what should or shouldn't have been done. Now it's on the table, now it's written right. It was done by lawyers, by the legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and together we can support and approve it. One more time. I wanted pension reform to be discussed across the political spectrum. We did it, we did it within the Commission on Fair Pensions. We have tabled a comprehensive proposal for a pension reform that cannot be discussed, and that is why we are now presenting at least some partial things to straighten out the injustices. And, comrade, if I may: can you imagine, during the pandemic, instead of cursarbeit, emergency medical care, tipping benefits, and all these important steps, I would be dealing with pension reform? I can't imagine because I won't leave the families without the infirmary when the schools closed? We saved over a million jobs at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs through the best functioning government program, hundreds of thousands of people would be without us. I didn't admit it. When you're a minister, you have to prioritize, and then we decided it was the Antivirus and the cursarbeit that had priority. We have decided that the emergency treatment centre is more important, we have decided not to threaten the officials at the employment office, and therefore we have presented benefits every quarter. [[15.50 hours]] And if I had my way, those laws would be discussed much faster. Much faster. We, as the ministry, have had tens in the last three years - I will be a minister at the end of July for three years only - so we did do dozens of laws, and if things went faster here - and I say it straight - then maybe we did the others too. We have over ten unnegotiated people here, and I hope we can get through the pensions we're discussing today, the amendment to the OSPOD and the amendment to the Children's Group Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u53	Now another point of fact, Mr Jiří Bláha, is prepared by Jakub Michálek. So please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u54	I'm sorry to keep you, but I just have to respond to this. Madam Secretary here boasts that she saved us, the businessman, but it's all completely different. If the Department of Labour and Social Affairs hadn't entered with a clear demand that employees would only be subsidized this way, there were other programs proposed here. Simple, depending on who's taking it to the state register, the entrepreneurs would have gotten it, without any lengthy requests that would have made them come. Because the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs entered into negotiations when the Ministry of Industry had a clear course of action to compensate entrepreneurs and their employees to keep them, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs buried the whole thing. So just to be clear. As a result, we had to fill out thousands of requests and see if we could find anything graciously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u55	Now the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, will perform, and before he reaches the microphone, I will read two apologies. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová apologises from 14:30 to 16:00 for work reasons and Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková from today's meeting from 14:30 and then Thursday all day for work reasons. So please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, you may have forgotten some of this, but I will follow up on my previous speaker Mr Jurečka on the subject of the adjustment of pensions relating to those affected by the Communist regime. In particular, I wanted to say that if the amendment tabled by Mr Jurečka - and I am glad that it was tabled - we were actually considering taking over the Slovak amendment right after it was approved in Slovakia. We were not sure whether we could handle this quite correctly by legislative means, and therefore I would also be happy if the Ministry went through it and ensured that the amendment is legislatively technically correct, or they would be prepared by legislative technical amendments if necessary. However, if the proposal had not been passed, there were factual reservations about it for some reason, so I prepared a motion for an accompanying resolution to the House of Press of 1230, which the Chamber of Deputies would have expressed its view that it considered an immoral situation in which former representatives of the criminal, illegitimate and contemptible communist regime in Czechoslovakia from 1948 to 1989 continue to enjoy undeserved benefits, for example, in the form of a higher pension compared to the victims of the Communist regime, which were persecuted by this regime and therefore due to lower incomes are now receiving lower pensions, and therefore calls on the Government to prepare legislative proposals by the end of September 2021 to ensure that this immoral situation is settled. We are all informed that we have a valid Act No. 198/1993, about the unlawfulness of the Communist regime and about opposition to it, according to which the regime based on communist ideology, which decided on the governance of the state and the fates of citizens in Czechoslovakia, was criminal, illegitimate and reprehensible, as was the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia. Of course, he suppressed human rights and so on and so on, and it needs to be corrected. Maybe you can ask why this happens 30 years after the communist regime has ended, but you certainly know the answer to that question with your view, it's not something that was unusual. Very similar was the case in Germany when Willy Brandt came and was finishing the denacification when NSDAP workers were still sitting in high positions at the time, and we also have in the Czech Republic a number of high positions of former Communist Party representatives, so it is quite logical that the social change takes time and it is not possible to change the situation from one day to the next when we are here in 1989... sign up for a debate, Madam Secretary... [[He's shutting down...]] So in a situation where we really had more than a million members of the Communist Party here, it is not possible to reschedule it from one day to the next and in some way correct everything in one day, especially if the members of this one ruling party are crawled through or then the entire administrative apparatus was crawled, sat in all functions, had half in government and so on. So there was some sort of settlement at the time, but some of the injustices were, of course, undone as a result of, for example, restitutions and the like, but some of the inequalities, although they need to be insignificant, remain, and I think it is fair to seek their settlement in the way that many Central European states have done. So, in addition to this accompanying resolution, I have tabled two further amendments, which have been raised by experts, experts in this area, which compare several partial injustices. And it may seem like it's really small things, but I still think it's about the fate of the people who deserve the justice, even with a distance of time. So the first of these proposals concerns high school students who today, even though they were illegally excluded as a result of not sympathising with the communist regime at the time, and were subsequently rehabilitated, are losing the right to start their period of disfellowshipped studies, although this possibility exists for college students. While high school students were affected even more. I'm going to give you a few examples here, even if it's a relatively small group of people, so it might be interesting for the Ministry of Finance that this proposal will not have significant financial implications. For example, Karel Brabec, in 1937, was expelled from the First Higher Industrial School of Engineering in Brno in 1957 because he did not provide guarantees for the right ratio to the democratic people's establishment of our republic. According to the communication from the Ministry of Education and Sports of 2000, this decision was automatically repealed by law on 1. 4. 1991. Michal Mišove, born 1941, was expelled from the Central Forestry Technical School in Banská Štiavnica in 1958 because his parents had no positive relationship with the People's Democratic Establishment. In 1991 the head of the school declared that the decision of 1958 was invalid and, consequently, the decision was declared unlawful and invalid from the outset. Štefan Žibrún, born 1969, was expelled from the Mining Secondary Training Centre in 1985 because he refused to honor the memory of the late secretary of the KSSS comrade Černěnko. According to the 2002 communication of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic, the testimony from the teaching ratio of Mr Žibrún ex lege was abolished by the provisions of § 21 para. 1 Act on Out-of-court Rehabilitation. So these decisions were repealed as unlawful under the Act on Out-of-court Rehabilitation, but at the same time there was no adequate correction within the pension scheme to apply the same provisions as in Section 24 para. 5 a law where a period of higher education is counted as two years of employment in order to mitigate injustices. The second proposal concerns compensation for persons who have been abused by the Communist regime by so-called protective supervision. In this case, I suggest that they should be compensated for 50 crowns to retire for each month in which protection supervision is imposed. Protective supervision was an institute that served to bully citizens in Communist Czechoslovakia. It was a repressive tool to limit his opponents. [[16.00 hours]] Again, I can give examples of people who were bullied as a result of protective supervision, such as the 92-year-old Miloslav Hrubý of Příbram, who was born in 1929. As part of his protective supervision, he was ordered twice a day to report to the Public Security Station. If he couldn't keep it, he'd get a ticket for it. Then 85-year-old Josef Bezděk, born in 1936 in Budapest. He was sentenced three times in Czechoslovakia for refusing military service, and for the fourth time in 1974, he was sentenced for obstructing the supervision of churches and religious societies for an unconditional sentence of imprisonment and subsequent three-year protective supervision. Pavel Wonka, born in 1953, died at 35 years old in 1988 in the Hradec Králové prison. He was in custody for failing to comply with the terms of protective supervision. So a lot of these people haven't lived to see it at all, really, very few of them are left, and I think it would be fair for these remaining people, who are already some of them in very advanced age, to straighten the conditions so that they can be compensated for the injustices that the Communist regime has caused them. The amendments - House documents 8816, 8844 and 8847 - will be signed up for a detailed debate. But I just wanted to say to what the secretary says that it doesn't seem like an actual problem to her. I would recommend that she go to some of those families in the country, families that are peasants' survivors, families where the grandfathers have been abused, and these peasants and families really don't forget what the injustices have been done to them, and some of these families consider it a great injustice that today they have to pay social security money to receive above-standard pensions from communist prominents. So what we are trying to do is settle this situation, reduce pensions for those involved in the activities of the criminal communist regime, and, on the contrary, compensate those who, as I have read here, have been persecuted by the Communist regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u57	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. Let's keep going. Mr Kováčik is the first to make a point of fact, and then I have some priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen, for more than 30 years, the KSČM has been fighting for fair pensions for all in these opposition positions as well. It is not our fault that this is not the case today, it is the debate that is going on. But let's figure out how long some who are criticizing the situation have been with the government, how many times they haven't been. I think that on the fingers of one hand a clumsy carpenter can count the number of electoral periods when, for example, KDU has not been in government for many decades, and now suddenly we are profiling on this one subject. It seems to me that there is a pre-past war being fought just so that pensions, fair pensions, cannot be settled any longer! To me, this discussion seems like an obstruction of trying to fix what is still manageable in pensions! I'm sorry, I may be louder, more upset, but that's how it feels to me. So please, nicely, let's really get back to what we're dealing with, we've got other things to figure out, and there's not much left to do, until mid-September, when there's another meeting, and let's really stop fooling around and finally start doing something! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u59	Thank you, and now with priority rights, first Minister Zaorálek, then President Radim Fiala. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u60	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. But I guess here, even though it's not my subject - social policy, I think I actually see an opportunity for myself to do something extraordinary in this novel. And if we can do that, I find it quite spectacular. As I say, it's not a subject that I'm professionally interested in, but I'm interested in this novel, and especially in the measure that would appreciate the fact that some people have devoted their lives to raising and caring for children, I see it as quite an extraordinary event, because I don't remember accepting such a thing in the past. I'll explain. In fact, for the first time here, we appreciate that someone cut back on their careers and gave up a number of things - not just wages and a lower salary, but actually changed his life to pursue the restoration of life. It is actually something that has such almost biblical dimensions, and I think that in this form we have never approved it this way, because parental contributions or child allowances are different. I know it from my own life, because before my older brother was born and I was born, my mom was working surgery at the hospital, and given how many years she spent with us, she never actually came back to the level, let's say, which she was on before she left for maternity leave. And that's not just -- my mom's dead -- but I have a boyfriend who's had a serious illness with his wife, so he had to start taking care of the kids. He told me what it meant to his profession. He couldn't go to training anymore, he couldn't take on any more responsible tasks, actually no overtime, so they got used to not counting on him, and it totally changed his life. And yet the person really devoted himself to what is absolutely essential, the restoration of this society. It was said here from the table that there was no justice and that we would not change that by making partial changes. However, I dare say that if we approve of this, the impact of this is enormous, of course not just on women. It concerns, as far as I know, more than 100,000 men. But take it, it was said here that he was going to raise the kids, so they're going to pay him back. You know, I think it's a bit of a simplistic idea. We have 60 percent of women in our pensioners today. Take how many lonely women there are. You know very well that the pensions of these women are much lower - about CZK 2,300 - than men and women who have often raised children and renewed life in this country are really one of the poorest today. And I'm simply going to imagine that for a huge amount of them, 500 or thousands of crowns, if it was one, two kids, it's a big deal today. I think they're watching it with a lot of attention, it's really gonna help them. I know we can't do justice, we can't do that, we wouldn't be the best Members, but this help, and for the first time we're doing it in this way, I don't think we'd really find an example where we'd appreciate that someone changed their lives for caring for children with greater, better success, because education is erratic, we know that, but in summary it was a huge job. And for the first time here, we show that we appreciate merit differently than just a narrow understanding of work or some successful financial operation. We say, that's also something that's been taken here and that's worth a lot to us, and at least that's what we show to those who often do - let's not count on those kids always giving them back everything they own. Sometimes you can't. So I'm convinced that the help isn't really that big, but we're symbolic for the first time, but in the end, we're actually showing that we appreciate this and that it's something that's of great importance to the future. That's why it seems pretty grand to me if we approve, and I wish we could agree on that. That's what addresses me most personally on the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u61	The next one is registered with priority rights by President Radim Fiala. Please, then we should get to a proper debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u62	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, a little bit of a different case now, although, of course, my comment or contribution also relates to pensions. For the SPD movement, a dignified standard of living for our seniors, but also for disabled people, widows, widows, orphans, is a key programme priority. When there was a vote at any time on raising pensions for any group, we were always in favour and we were always in favour of the highest amount that could be increased for pensions. [[16.10 hours]] But one thing we cannot accept is that those who have the lowest pensions are slowly poor in line with how prices are rising, and those who have high pensions receive higher and higher additions to those pensions, that is, they are getting richer and more richer. I think that pension merit is actually because of the way the secretary here said they had some years worked off, that they had some income, and then the merit should pass, and the annual valuation should be not percentage, not mainly percentage, but the same amount. After all, those people deserved merit at the very beginning, how much they received, how much they had worked out, and so on. At present, this means that scissors open between - and now in quotation marks - poorer pensioners and richer pensioners. The richer get more and more additions, valorisation of pensions, and the poorer still lower and lower or far lower than those who have higher pensions. We think it's unfair. We think that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should deal with this and that the annual valuation of these pensions should take place at the same rate. We believe that the situation of tens of thousands of pensioners with the lowest pensions is so serious that these people often have to think about whether they pay rent, buy food or medicines. I think that's awful, and I wouldn't want any of the people in the Czech Republic to turn out like this, to have to hesitate and weigh on the pharmaceutical scales that seniors buy for income, if they're going to live, if they're going to be treated, if they're going to eat, and from which piles they're going to take to make the most of it. That is why the SPD proposes a minimum pension institute. We have this institute described, it's already in the form of a bill in the House. It has been here for a long time, and we wish that - now, of course, we will not be able to do it, but, for example, in the next parliamentary term - that we should be able to get to the point of discussing this in order to get acquainted with the fact that the situation of tens of thousands of seniors who are really ill is critical and that the minimum pension institute should help them in their lives. But because we know that it will take a while and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is overwhelmed, there is nothing new going on with pension reform - and I am not just saying this here for Minister Maláčová, but 10 years ago, maybe 20 years ago, when all ministers have declared that they want some pension reform, and unfortunately have done nothing for pensioners - we come in this form at least with a proposal that will be presented in a detailed debate by my colleague Lucie Šafránková, who is in charge of social affairs in the SPD. It means adding, valorizing, yet another valorization, several tens of thousands of pensioners, seniors who really have the lowest pension and who have to hesitate what income they get from it, whether drugs, food, rent, etc. So that's what I wanted to say here. I think it's important that we talk about it. In a detailed debate, Lucie Šafránková will outline exactly the proposal that the SPD will submit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u63	Thank you. Now, therefore, in the general debate, Mr Mašek, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u64	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues. I would like to introduce you to the amendment which, as House document number 8766, we have put into the system with my colleagues Dr Brázdil, Mrs Pastuchová and Dr Procházková. This is an amendment which addresses the social security of members of the integrated rescue system as defined by Law No. 239/2000 Coll., on Integrated Rescue System. I want to say that this is a legally defined group of workers. These are workers who participate in interventions to save life and health not only in the daily service, in fires, industrial accidents, car accidents, but especially then we know their participation in emergencies such as repeated floods in previous years, covido pandemics now or tornadoes in Moravia. In short, this is a simple regulation of the applicable provision of the law, the possibility of taking early retirement up to five years earlier before reaching retirement age for those who have lost physical and psychological abilities for the exercise of the profession and their participation in the service then endangers the safety of intervention, the safety of their colleagues and the safety of the rescued. The advantage for a clearly defined group of members of the integrated rescue system would be the abolition of the reduction in the calculation of the pension applied by law. This is an adequate advantage for people who put their own lives on the line for the protection of life and health. The amendment addresses the issue systemically. The requirement of entitlement is a valid employment or service relationship to the IZS folder and at least 20 years of work in an integrated full-time rescue system. The use of premature unsancioned retirement, as we propose, will not be mass, will really be used by those who cannot. The estimated start-up costs would be about 50 million per year. Thank you in advance for your support and systemic resolution of the unequal approach within the IPS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u65	Thank you. Now, Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs GajdůGajdůšková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u66	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to the other three amendments which I propose for the KDU-ČSL, together with Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Again, these are the proposals that KDU-ČSL has put forward several times in this parliamentary term. The first two proposals concern the minimum period of participation in pension insurance, which a citizen in the Czech Republic must fulfil in order to participate in an old-age pension, which means that he should be entitled to an old-age pension. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic went against the trend of the European Union in this area, and between 2010 and 2018, this period increased to 35 years of minimum periods of insurance. I just want to remind you that the countries around us have followed a completely opposite trend, except perhaps Bulgaria, which has a minimum premium period of 40 years, but for example Spain has a minimum period of 15 years, as well as neighbouring Slovakia, Germany even five years. This, of course, requires B to say that the person who has been involved in five years of pension insurance in Germany has, of course, a different level of pension than the person who has been involved for 30 years. However, injustice against some people in the Czech Republic with an extremely long minimum period of insurance is obvious. In this respect, we want to propose a change in two options - these are the first two amendments: to reduce the minimum period of insurance to either 30 years or 25 years. We are aware that then it would be necessary to calculate... or it would then change the calculation of the pension itself. But there's a whole bunch of people who don't fill the minimum period of insurance for their own reasons. [[16.20 hours]] Let me give you some examples. We have people who are disabled at the end of their careers, but do not reach the third degree of disability, and therefore they do not count the time excluded. At the same time, their disability will not allow them to work. This means they are in a situation where they do not fill the required minimum premium period of 35 years and do not enter the old-age pension scheme. There are other situations, of course. We have some families here who are informally caring for, for example, a disabled person, but once again a disabled person who does not have a third degree of disability. There are situations in some families with more children, where mommy also stays with them for a longer period of time even after parental leave, and we would find many more of these examples. The situation is not black and white and we believe that it is necessary to set up a pension system so that it does not unfairly divide some groups of citizens who, for example, worked honestly for 25 or 30 years, but do not meet the required 35 years for some serious life situation. The third amendment, which we are proposing again with Mrs Golasowská, has already been made here. Again it goes into the issue of injustice, which is in the Czech pension system towards women - mothers. We believe that we can help them in a way other than what we've been arguing about for almost two hours today, and that's an increase in the pension rate of CZK 500 per raised child, which is a priority for KDU-ČSL. But we want to go another way, and that's that we'd go back to the system that's been here in the past, and that for any raised child, the retirement period would be adjusted. We believe in this - and again there are statistics showing that not only the amount of the pension as such, but also the situation of women in terms of their health, in terms of how the stress situation that they experience by combining work and private life is on their health, and we believe that shortening their retirement period is the right way. So these are the three amendments that we are proposing, and I would like to ask you to support them at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u67	Thank you and now Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, Mr Onderka will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary. I respect that we're at second reading, and I won't talk long, but a little bit more generally for starters. I want to say that I very much and very much appreciate the proposal to increase pensions above the existing valorisation. It should be recalled that the valuation of CZK 458 is half lower than that of the previous one, and it should also be recalled that the valorisation is actually underway, and it is back to solving price increases in the cost of living. After the last year, anyone who goes shopping sees that prices have risen rocketically, namely prices for the basic things that a person needs, which account for most of the costs of every senior household. I think that it is right and that it is good - and I thank the Minister for this proposal that she has tabled - which raises pensions by at least the sum of 300 crowns, and at least a little bit, so it contributes to ensuring that the standard of living of our seniors does not fall even in the following year and subsequent years. We don't really want to allow for a reduction in the standard of living of seniors. It should be said that, with the whole increase, and I am now recalling the amendments, where, according to the amendment, 500 crowns should be added for each child raised, the average pension will be over CZK 16,000. That's really not much for a lifetime's work. But I would still like to, at second reading, support the amendments, especially the one relating to the so-called educational one, to raise the pension amount by CZK 500 for the raised child. You know, the only thing that sounded to me here was asco, but it needs to be emphasized, and it's statistics, it's just given that the lower wages of women up to 25 percent, as in which period, are for the same job, in the same position. It's not true that it's due to the feminized or less feminized professions. It just counts for the same job. And, of course, it's reflected in sickness, and it's reflected in pensions. I am therefore convinced that this proposal is really, really good and I am intercede for accepting this in the form of the proposed amendment. And I am also very, very much intercede for an amendment dealing with challenging professions. But I want to go back to Mr Kaňkovský's proposal to address the support of women - seniors by reducing the retirement age there. It was, it was, it really was, every kid was counted off, and the woman could go early. I give two things to consider. First, women live longer. The duration of female survival is higher than in men. And then from a socio-economic point of view, or if you want to work, you know, I met a lot of women who were pretty unhappy at a time when there was high unemployment, that just at the time when they could retire, they were first in line to stay out of work. I am convinced of this, and I have said this since the 1990s, that a flexible retirement limit would be ideal so that everyone can choose when they just don't feel like working anymore and want to enjoy deserved rest. I'm saying this here so that we can really think about how we're going to stand up to these things, actually, at third reading. In the case of demanding professions, it is a little different, the condition is that it is a situation where the person really cannot continue to pursue a profession in which he has worked his whole life, a demanding profession, and he is no longer in a situation where he could requalify himself and start working somewhere else in another field. Again, I intercede for educational and for an amendment to demanding professions. [[16.30 hours]] I would also like to take advantage of the situation towards my Social Committee Chair, Mrs Pastuchová, who has accused social democracy of adopting the euthanasia issue in the programme. I have to say here for myself that euthanasia, as it has been all along, has always been for debate in social democracy, and so far we have always seen it as a personal decision of every person to stand up to this issue. And so it has been now, we have this in social democracy for discussion and we are talking about the horizon of some forward-looking programme by 2030. And I'm saying again, it's for discussion, it's not in the next election program. So, colleagues, colleagues from YES, you can be calm on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u69	Thank you, and now, Mr Onderka, Mrs Aulická will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u70	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you to ask you to support my amendment to the Parliamentary Press 1230, or, if you will, 1230. [[12,30 said]] [[A thousand, two hundred and thirty.]] This amendment provides for an earlier retirement pension for those working in demanding professions. The aim of the proposal is to allow early retirement for workers who are unable, in particular because of the long-term performance of demanding work, having a significant impact on their health and working capacity, to carry out existing work until retirement age, and at the same time due to their physical wear, it is not possible or effective their further retraining. Another objective is to prevent the negative social phenomenon of forced retirement. There it is necessary to realise that there is a permanent reduction in the amount of old-age pension and because of the loss of working capacity in the original profession without the possibility of obtaining the employment potential corresponding to another profession. The current setting of early retirement pensions gives insured persons the opportunity to leave the labour market before their retirement age. However, the result of the use of this option is a permanently reduced merit activity under the law laid down by the actuarial rules, the purpose of which is to ensure that the total amount of funds spent by an early retirement pension is not higher than in the case of a pensioner with comparable income and the same period of insurance. So we are talking about the fact that we have employees who have a long-term demanding activity, whether psychologically or physically based on the tables we have legalized today, and these people then, as some of my previous speakers have said, live to their retirement age and spend a minimum of time in retirement, or even those who do not live to have a pension at all. I understand that we are talking about the solidarity system, we are talking about pensions as such, which are legal, but I still think that these professions, these employees, should be favoured. As regards the situation following the entry into force of this proposal, if you support it by voting at third reading, the pensionable age will be reduced for the insured, depending on the length of the period worked in the so-called demanding professions, which will be defined following the performance of the work classified under Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the protection of public health and on the amendment of certain related laws and implementing legislation to this law. In particular, it is Decree No. 432/2003 Sb., which regulates the conditions for the classification of work into categories 3 and 4. In conclusion, only probably what is very important to some of you, especially to the Minister of Finance of the Czech Republic. From the perspective of the long-term sustainability of public finances, the proposed measure creates the need for additional fiscal consolidation at less than 0.02% of GDP, which is around CZK 1 billion in GDP. Administrative costs associated with the implementation of this proposal could amount to about CZK 150 million for pension payers. The other public budgets are not affected by the bill. I think that this amendment is not controversial, it is a matter that has been discussed in the public area for a long time. If I am not mistaken, it was also discussed at the pension committee under the guidance of Minister Maláčová here and the entry into the budget, that is to say financial costs in the budget of the Czech Republic, are minimal from this point of view. Therefore, I would like to ask you subsequently to support my amendment at third reading and, of course, in a detailed debate, I will still sign up for this amendment. Thank you and have a good day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u71	Thank you, Mrs Aulická, now. Before they arrive at the microphone, I will introduce the House with an apology from the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, who apologizes today from 4:00 p.m. to the end of the day for business reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Because we still have other points ahead of us concerning the social area, I will not delay my discussion. I wanted to comment on some of the amendments, but I think I will keep it for the third reading so that we can express ourselves individually, as we need to vote on behalf of the KSČM and what reasons we have for this. But I would like to imagine my amendment, which I also tabled on this proposal, and it is an increase from CZK 300 to CZK 500. In fact, we are responding with this proposed adjustment to increasing the amount to an inadequate and flexible response to a significant increase in prices in sales of goods and other necessary living costs, because according to current analyses, despite the long-term efforts to significantly valorize pensions and the contribution of fixed amounts, there is a lack of final effect, especially for low pensions that are not able to rise to a sufficient level, and are often still on the poverty line. We therefore approach our proposal, which increases the originally proposed fixed amount by CZK 200 so that further possible increases in pensions will help the most needed. And maybe I can still get a little insight. We're still talking here, some of my colleagues are talking about the so-called big pension reform. Excuse me, my colleague Jiří Dolejš took part in the Fair Pensions Commission, but we have never both noticed across the political spectrum what a large pension reform means for the individual parties. For us, we should only talk about how to maintain an ongoing pension system, how to address the revenue side in the future, so that the ongoing system can really work further, and more or less, as I see it across the political spectrum, we are just dealing with how to involve our citizens in the income system more and more so that they add an increasing amount of their salaries to their pensions. However, the problem here is that between 60 and 70 percent of our working citizens still do not reach average wages, and if this goes on, we are certainly not able to ask our citizens to continue raising the amount and contributing to their pension system. We need to find another consensus on how to really talk about the future across the political spectrum, especially on the revenue side, because our citizens, as they are so far in their income, are unable to meet some of the demands of the right-wing opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u73	Thank you and now, Mrs Valachová, at this time as the last one in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u74	Mr President, fellow Members, honourable Government, when I speak to the people I meet, with accountants, teachers, turning tables, salesmen, stockkeepers, in short, with all the professions, and it comes to pensions, people as their Member ask me for a few clear things. [[16.40 hours]] First, raise pensions more radically, so that the hole that was created between the so-called old-fashioned and the young-passers, especially the pensions that we admitted before 1989, shortly after it and later, and, of course, the hole that was created by the fact that, in the time of right-wing governments, they did not increase pensions on legal valorisation every year. They want us to finally straighten out this injustice. Although we have radically increased pensions in recent years, this injustice is still among people. Therefore, I will also support the increase in pensions for our seniors and seniors over the legal valorisation that we have also enforced, but the black hole from previous years and decades is still there, so it is appropriate to increase the pensions for seniors and seniors in this way exceptionally. That's the first thing people come to me with. Then I am often approached by women who raised children and who, as a result, have very often lower pensions than men, and unfortunately, in the Czech Republic it is still the rule. For a long time, we have been looking for a path, a constitutional way to do this, and I am glad that the amendment that is being applied at the moment and on which it has cooperated in the preparation of changes in the pension system and pension reform of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs really addresses the constitutional way in which we increase the system men and women who have been caring for their children, pensions through so-called education. That's the second thing. Here too, colleagues and colleagues, we have an opportunity to accommodate people. And the third thing, especially when visiting employers, businesses, workshops, especially workers in heavy sector professions, demanding professions, are asking us to find a way to retire early and to keep their pensions dignified. I am glad that through the pension Commission for Fair Pensions and through the other amendment that has been applied, and we have the opportunity to approve it, also this third problem, the third concern, the particular concern of people, we can successfully resolve it. I would therefore like to call on all of us, colleagues and colleagues, not only to proceed to extraordinary valorisation during this term, but also to approve educational education and to approve the possibility of early retirement in demanding professions, and in this way all these three concerns have been resolved by the people together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u75	Thank you. Mr Martínek is still reporting for the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to appeal briefly to budgetary responsibility, after all, we all know the state of the public finances at the moment. The current proposal submitted by YES and ČSSD has a relatively detailed explanatory statement. These are possible impacts of around 11 billion, with 32,6 billion in the medium term. However, many amendments have now been mentioned here, and since many of them have not been evaluated for budgetary impact, I would like to read here my estimates, which the adoption of individual amendments would have in the state budget, and so that we should think about it if the individual proposals should actually be voted on. There is Mrs Jírovcová's proposal from the KSČM regarding an additional additional increase to CZK 500, which is an additional expenditure of approximately 6 billion. Then there are a number of amendments from the SPOL coalition. I have some estimates here in the sense - for example, Mrs Golasowský's proposals, or Mr Kaňkovský, when widow's pensions are in full amount is another CZK 5 billion per year, 500 crowns per child raised is about CZK 18 billion per year, widow's pensions, increase in the percentage of VD from 50 per cent to 60 per year, widow's pensions, increase in the collection is about 7 billion per year, widow's pensions, change in entitlements is about less than a billion, reduction in the minimum insurance period for 30 years in the future up to 0.5 per cent of GDP, i.e. an estimate in the future of some 15 billion per year at current prices, a reduction in the minimum insurance period for 25 years, an estimate of over 30 billion at current prices, a reduction in the retirement age of some 20 billion per year, followed by up to 40 billion per year, a reduction in pensions for the representatives of the communist regime is a savings of approximately a billion, a replacement of 85 years for entitlement to CZK to old pensioners is a condition of approximately 2 billion. Here I would point out that I am sorry that this changes the parameter wrong again in my opinion, because it would de facto change the elderly, who are 85 years old and are not 20 years old, to withdraw the amount or not be entitled to it, despite the fact that, of course, older people also need help, and those who have voluntarily decided to resign and retire longer, so they cannot be penalized. Furthermore, we have a proposal from members of the ANO movement - about CZK 50 million. Furthermore, the SPD proposal for an increase of CZK 500, according to the petitioner, is 2.5 billion, according to our estimates at least 4 billion. Mr. Hamáček - 500 crowns for each raised child is roughly 18 billion. Furthermore, Mr Onderka - I think this is one of the few proposals that needs to be dealt with, these are the challenging professions, which, even with the growing retirement age, are gradually increasing up to 65 years, so it is really necessary to deal with these demanding professions, here it is roughly CZK 2 billion per year, and on the one hand it is good that this is addressed by employers' responsibilities, which would probably reduce the cost in the future. Furthermore, we have suggestions such as my, i.e. symbolic, increase in coefficients for working seniors, there is an estimate of about tens of millions of crowns, less than 100 million crowns. Furthermore, we have an extension of the excluded time for carers, from the beginning it is a proposal in the order of tens to hundreds of millions, and there would be more costs in the coming decades. Furthermore, the clarification of the conflict of interest law, i.e. in order to meet the requirements of the European Union directives, and at the same time a one-off thousand-corner, there is one-time 3 million with a positive budgetary impact in the future, which, among other things, is the support of working seniors, if they do well, to positively motivate seniors, so that if they want to and will be able to voluntarily decide to continue their career in some way, at least in part. So let's vote a little later in the third reading responsibly and actually solve the most pressing problems with regard to the state of public finances and the huge rate of debt that the Czech Republic has at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u77	Thank you. Now, Secretary Maláčová has reported to me, with priority rights she will probably respond, so please. Then I noticed Mr Bláha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u78	Thank you. I am sorry, thank you for the list of Mr Martínek with regard to the budgetary costs. As I listened to it, it's rude to agree - rude to it. The only thing I think is a very miscalculation is the challenging professions. I have it right here in front of me, where it must be said that the budgetary implications for demanding professions will be positive over the next 15 to 20 years, then spending will exceed revenue. It must be said that the whole proposal is based on the fact that employers will pay 5 percentage points, higher social contributions, and then those first years after those 15 to 20 will be up to CZK 100 million. That's the difference. [[16.50 hours]] Otherwise, I think that these are really very expensive proposals, and that is why we need to actually agree in the election campaign across the political spectrum on how to live up to what we promised, three hundred above the legal valorisation, and at the same time to deal with the systemic issues on which there is agreement across the political spectrum, so that this vote does not become what happened to child allowances, that they have essentially passed almost all the amendments and the total cost of child allowances is almost CZK 9 billion. I think this is also a threat to this bill. So what social democracy is saying is: let's go 300 above legal valorization and then deal with systemic changes. I would also like to say that I very much support Mr Mašek's parliamentary proposal to help with the pension claims of the rescue workers. However, as we have now passed this amendment, which we did not know was going to be tabled, it is legislatively impossible. That means that at the last minute, we're looking for a way to adjust it, to accept it, and to be feasible. This means that this is really important at the moment, because I support the amendment. Otherwise, as I listened to the debate, so to me, and this is really a document that is missing lately, so we would like to process at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by the end of the week some basic fact sheet, where there will be basic facts, and have them on the pension system, because things that are going wrong here are basically repeated every year for every debate on the pension system. I think these are things that may have been in force in the 1990s or they were in force until 2012, but at this point, the legislative amendments are different, so we're going to prepare the document. And the last point I have for those who do not know this: honourable Members, honourable Members, the Czech administration has all the necessary statistics on the pension system on its website, that is to say, the amount of pensions, the structure of the pensioner and all the relevant information. [[Social security]] This means that any of you who need to know this information can at any time, if you put in your search engine the Czech Social Security Administration - statistics - pensions, so you can immediately pull it out. If I were to sum this up, I would remind you that I support the amendment to the rescue workers, but at the moment it is legally miswritten, and we are looking for a way to correct it as quickly as possible so that it can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u79	Thank you. Mr Bláha has now volunteered from his post, and I then register Mrs Sommerová for having something to tell us. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I have an opportunity for Madam Secretary to listen to me one day. I hope he listens. If you listen, too, to take a bit of a master as far as you go. The basic thing that if we want to change the pension system is information. Without information, we're unable to move forward. That means that no site of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs can replace it if we set up an app that everyone would have on their phone, like we have a bank on our phone, and at that point whenever I want to see how much retirement I have saved, I can look. It's about the fact that we should actually change the whole of where we're going in the context of pension creation, and leave it to the people. This means that everyone would really be free to decide: I want to retire at 60, at 65, at 50, at 40, at 80 - it's up to those people, and especially at the moment. No exceptions. The benefits of certain groups are unacceptable because it puts the others at a disadvantage. How can we say a paramedic is worse off than a baker? The baker works warm, only at night, constantly in the dust. And this way, we could go after x other professions. I can't do this. We should leave it to those people. That means we're gonna have an app on our phone, imagine, you have an app on your phone, you open it and you say, "I'm young, I want to retire in '60, my pension I want would be $20,000 a month." The app will immediately show you how much you need to contribute to the pension system. But what's important? We cannot continue to have a tax system as we have it, that a person pays a normal tax, a social tax and a health tax, because everyone uses it differently. Everyone's using it differently, or it's not pumping at all. And at that point, people who are responsible, who work, who take away, who don't draw, are disadvantaged from those who abuse the whole system. So imagine that you know how much you're handing over to the state, that's in the app, and you're constantly saving up, and on the other hand, you know how much you're pumping from the state. That means whenever you go to any office where you want some services, it's logical to subtract. You go to a doctor, you get service from the state, you subtract. And that's when you make up the pillow that you have to calculate the pension from. And you get into the fact that you start thinking about whether it's convenient to abuse the system, not take it to pensions, not take it to the state register, because a bunch of people who have fallen into the problems they're in today are the ones who may have worked half their lives black, who just had three jobs that have never been taxed in the end. And that's the thing that would help us enormously in the way that people would get involved in the system themselves and stop taking advantage of themselves. And we could even say to those people, "You'll have much bigger pensions and it won't cost us more." And do you know why? 'Cause we're gonna save money on the valet. We'll save money on officials, doctors, and all the social workers that are needed today. So there is absolutely no need to be frightened that with pension reform or that we will not have pension money in the future. But there is a need to change the whole system and involve people in how they will approach pension creation. At the beginning, I choose to retire at sixty-five, but at the end of my life or at fifty, I suddenly find myself sick and that I would like to leave early. And since I worked honestly and didn't abuse the system, I'm already saved up so much that I'm going to have a much bigger pension. Or during my retirement age, that means that I suddenly find out my entire working age, I have a better profession, I want to contribute more to the system, the system would allow me to do so, so I would have a bigger pension. All of this must be taken into account in future tax reform. If the secretary is interested, I'd be happy to introduce her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u81	Thank you. If the Minister does not want to exercise the right of priority, then Mrs Sommerová, and then we would move forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u82	Mr President, allow me to report a mistake for the tapestry and media that occurred during the previous item of the programme in the amendment to the Act on Supported Energy Resources, House press number 870. When voting number 177 on the mandatory incorporation of biofuels into petrol, I voted against, and on the record I have a pro. I do not question the vote, and I welcome the fact that the House has rejected the increase in biofuels, which corresponds, in substance, to my position, and this proves the previous vote number 176 on the amendment of Mr Třešňák. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u83	Thank you. Madame, I have to call you to the point in part, but I understand the need to bring it up. Now, Minister Maláčová. So we can go back to the current point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u84	Thank you. I will be very brief because we have managed to correct the amendment to the integrated rescue system very quickly. So only to Mr Bláh. There is a need to say that the pension calculator that we are testing for several days now can be accessed within less than a minute through the access data of your internet banking. Please note that we have such a system after 30 years, a pension calculator. Now, in July, we're still testing it, we're picking up flies, and then we'd like it to work fully since August. She's working now, but we'd still like the system to be repaired. It is a truly groundbreaking thing that has been discussed here for a very long time, and we are very proud of the Czech Social Security Administration, which, in my opinion, is a leader in the digitization of the state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u85	Thank you, and at this point I do not have any more applications for the general debate, so if no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. Am I asking the Secretary or the rapporteur if they are interested in final words? It's not like that. I have no note here that we should vote on something at this point, so if no one has objections, I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Chvojka is the first to sign up, he is downloading it, in which case Mrs Golasowská, who I do not see, so Mr Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u86	Good evening. I would like to apologise to Mrs Golasowská, who can no longer be present for work reasons at the moment, and I would like to apply to her proposed amendments under the numbers of Houses of Documents 8750, 8752, 8749, 8751 and 8742. All these amendments were justified by Mrs Golasowská in the general debate and, of course, they are also justified in writing. So much for the first part of my speech in a detailed debate. Furthermore, I would like to sign up for my amendments to the KDU-ČSL Club, which we have also tabled with Mrs Golasowská. These are three amendments, as I said in the general debate. The first has the number of the House document 8746, it is a reduction in the minimum period of participation in pension insurance from 35 years to 25 years. The second amendment is an alternative to this amendment, it has the number of the House document 8747 and it is a reduction from 35 years to 30 years of compulsory participation in pension insurance. The third amendment is under the number of House document 8748, and this is an amendment where there is a reduction in the pension age of women according to the number of children raised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u87	Thank you and now Mr Martínek, Mr Výborný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u88	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my two amendments, which I propose together with Mrs Olga Richterová, to the numbers of the Houses of Documents 8772 and 8775. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u89	Thank you. I assume that the proposals are justified or justified. Now, Mr. Výborný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would like to sign up to the two amendments that were justified here in the general debate by President Jurečka. They are in the system under the numbers of House documents 8843 and 8850. This is, on the one hand, a settlement of pensions for the exponents of the communist regime, this is the House document 8850, and the House document 8843, which is to count both to the decisive time and time when political prisoners were in prison. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u91	děkovat you and now Mr Onderka. A Member of the House of Sklenák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I sign up for my amendment to House Press No. 1230, Government Bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended. The amendment is read under number 8687 and it is a matter governing early retirement for those working in demanding professions. I have justified the general debate and, of course, the justification for the amendment is also part of the proposal itself in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u93	Thank you and now Mr Sklenák, Mrs Šafránková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u94	Thank you. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which I justified in the general debate on the remuneration for raised children. This proposal has a number of 8828 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u95	Thank you and now Mrs Šafránková, Mr Mašek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As the SPD has long advocated raising pensions, I am applying to my amendment under the number of House document 8719, which I justified in the general debate. And just to remind you: this proposal consists in adding CZK 500 to the total monthly amount of all the pensions to which they are entitled, even after the government's proposed increase for 2022 below CZK 15 000 per month, to this amount of their pensions, but in such a way that, after this proposed increase in the total amount of their income from all the pensions to which they are entitled, they do not exceed CZK 15 000 per month and that they do not be harmed by those citizens whose pensions are just above CZK 15 000 per month. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Mašek, then Mrs Aulická. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u98	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to read the modified version for the tapestry in agreement with the Minister and with the MPSV staff on early pensions of the IZS members. This Regulation shall enter into force on the I the following points 1 and 2 are inserted, including footnotes: "1. In Article 29, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. I. is entitled to an early retirement pension, which is not reduced in accordance with Section 36, if, at the time of entitlement to an old-age pension at the same time, it has reached 20 years of employment in the components of the integrated rescue system, as well as IPS. Footnote: Law No. 239/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System and on the Amendment of Certain Acts, as amended. Paragraph 5 shall become paragraph 6. II. The following Section 36a is inserted after Section 36a: Paragraph 36a (1) above the percentage of the old-age pension to which entitlement has been incurred pursuant to § 31 is hereby determined in accordance with Paragraph 34 (1). The amount of the pension shall not be reduced in the case of persons incorporated in the IRS and fulfilling the conditions for the granting of an early pension in accordance with Section 29. In order to determine the amount of early retirement, Section 33 shall apply. The percentage of income shall not be used when calculating the amount of early retirement. The current text shall be referred to as point 3.'; In this sense, the opening part of the draft law will be adapted in a legislative manner. I hereby declare this text.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u99	Thank you. I would ask, therefore, if the text is not in the system, that it be delivered in printed form, where appropriate, in one copy to the rapporteur and in one copy to me on the chair table in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now, Mrs Aulická, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am signing up for my amendment, which is under number 8774. I said the reasons in the general debate, so there is no need anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u101	Thank you and now Mr Krejza.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to the two amendments that Mr Bauer has included in the system under the numbers 8814 and 8815. Both were justified in the general debate and, of course, in the written proposal for these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u103	Thank you. Mrs Golasowská has been excused, Mr Michálek is still reporting, and I also see Mr Ferjenčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u104	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to Amendments 8816, 8844 and 8847 which are recorded in the system and which I have justified in the general debate. These are the proposals, the amendments to the secondary school study and its netting and the corresponding amount of pension to compensate for protective supervision and pension considerations and the accompanying resolution concerning the pensions of representatives of the Communist regime and its victims. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u105	Thank you. And now, Mr. Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hereby submit to the proposal 8812 which you will find in the system. I have already justified it in the general debate, and it is also justified in writing. It is the proposal for a grant refund to seniors of CZK 1,000 one time, which I present together with colleagues Michálek and Farský. What is going on is very briefly: The seniors will receive CZK 1,000 in one time and at the same time this proposal will be able to implement the conflict of interest law, which we have been trying to function here for several months in another press, however the ANO movement will always block it, so we try at least this way. We generally support pension valorisation, support the valuation scheme, and we will certainly hold it for the next term, which we also have in the electoral programme, along with the Mayors. And as far as raising pensions beyond valorisation, the point is that we don't want it to go to debt. That is why we are trying to find the resources from which such an increase can be financed, and in this case we have managed to find them. It's about the subsidies that governments get, and we think it's better to give the money to seniors than to oligarchs. So for these reasons, we propose this grant refund of CZK 1,000 for all pensioners, including disabled people. Thank you in advance for the support of this proposal 8812.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u107	Thank you And Mrs Pastuchová reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to propose a reduction for the committee to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-14-ps2017-111-05-004-035.u109	Okay. So, if no one else is reporting in a detailed debate, I am ending the detailed debate. [[Gong.]] And I'm going to ask if there's still interest in the final words after a detailed debate? He's not that interested. I have called my colleagues to the hall, because we will now have to vote on the proposal that has fallen. I'll check you all out. Please log in with your cards, and when we have a sufficient number of entries, or we have a steady number of entries, we will be voting in a procedure. For colleagues who are coming, I will repeat that a reduction in the deadline for third reading has been proposed for seven days. We still don't have enough presence yet. Already? Now. Well, at this point, we have enough presence. So for those who are still coming now, I will repeat that we will vote on the reduction of the deadline for the third reading to seven days. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 214, 96 Members and Members of Parliament, for 72, against 1. I note that the proposal has been accepted, so the deadline has been shortened. If no one else has anything else, I end the second reading of this proposal, we move on. Now point number
