ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u1	333. Proposal by Members Jan Bauer, Petr Fiala, Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Sb., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and some other laws /house print 290/ - third reading I ask that Mr Jan Bauer and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who was the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the position of the rapporteur's chair. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 290/5, which was delivered on 8 April 2021. We have a guarantee committee resolution at our disposal as the House Press 290/6. I ask the appellant, Mr Bauer, if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened? Yes, I do. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u2	Mr Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we are finally getting to the vote of a small one, but I believe that important parliamentary amendments. We presented it almost three years ago, and I know well that I have discussed this amendment with a significant part of the majority of you. Let me just briefly say how this law has evolved. The original proposal for an amendment to the Act on Aid in Material Need was based on the fact that the perpetrators of serious and repeated offences would be temporarily excluded from aid in material distress, as the current law already assumes in some other cases. You may all know that, for example, those who do not put children in schools properly or actively seek work can be eliminated under applicable laws in the Czech Republic either temporarily or otherwise in the context of assistance in material distress. The Government has adopted a neutral position on this proposal and has stated, among other things, that it is more appropriate to see the way in which we have come to address this problem rather in the abolition of fines for these serious and repeated offences from these benefits. For this reason and, among other things, on the recommendation of the government, we have redesigned our original proposal really point by point and put it newly on the concept of taking down these fines. I am sure that my goal was not to chase political points, but also to work together with colleagues in the Committee on Social Policy on a solution that could work in practice and which would find your support. I also subsequently introduced this revised proposal to my colleagues in the Committee on Social Policy, and the committee approved a comprehensive amendment on 9 September of this year (?) of the year. After this committee meeting, however, I had a discussion with the responsible staff of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and we also prepared some partial amendments through two amendments, and I would also like to thank this Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Jana Maláčová, for providing staff and legal support in the framework of the drafting of these amendments, and we were able to successfully complete those amendments. [[12.20 hours]] The amendments tabled do not deviate from the approved concept, merely refine it and regulate certain legislative details, introduce a different regime for offences involving the tolerance and promotion of child training and other offences against public order, property and civil coexistence, and complement certain technical matters, such as limitation periods. As regards the tolerance and support for truancy, the proposal leaves the existing scheme contained in Section 3 (1) (a) above. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) the law. It introduces the principle of so-called "one time, last time" in order to be able to remove fines from benefits. It is based on the fact that not sending children to school is the most serious offence that this proposal is intended to involve. On the other hand, the principle of "three times and enough" is to apply to other offences, as we called it professionally. The second accompanying amendment is rather of a technical nature. On the recommendation of the Government, the comprehensive amendment to the Committee on Social Policy extended the scope of the offences to be covered by the proposed legislation to include a violation of the obligation laid down by the generally binding decree of the municipality for the organisation, conduct and termination of public-accessible sports, cultural enterprises, including dance entertainment and discotheques, by laying down binding conditions to the extent necessary to ensure public order. So many of these two amendments, which are read in the system. Even before I assume that we will get to the vote, I would like to briefly comment on some of the reservations that have been made here at first or second reading. First of all, it's not true that it's a pre-election sheet. We have already submitted the bill in the autumn of 2018 and this was, among other things, in response to several visits to excluded localities where we, as Members, participated in the negotiations and were asked for help by local people and mayors. For another, the proposal is in no way at a bad time. The timing of the final vote is random, you all know that, but it couldn't have come at a more marked time. In an economic crisis where funds are no longer available for its solution, it is time to say that the state must be able to help people who find themselves in need but will not help people who abuse such assistance. For another, the proposal is certainly not directed against poor people, on the contrary. People that not only I, but also you have met in excluded localities, we have spoken to them, and who are desperate for the permanently unacceptable behaviour of some of their neighbours, are paradoxically often recipients of social benefits and we are trying to help them with this minor adjustment. For another, the possibility of re-dealing serious misdemeanors is not a disproportionate interference with the lives of their recipients. First of all, it should be taken into account that cash fines are not granted out of the blue, but are usually preceded by a relatively long process, such as consultation with parents, social work, negotiation, persuasion, warning, appeal against decisions and so on. If, even in such a case, the people concerned are not willing to act in accordance with the law, on the contrary, in our view, such intervention is appropriate. Plus, we're not discovering Atlantis. Already today, the law excludes recipients from the system of benefits of material distress for much less serious behavior, as I have said here - for example, active lack of job search. For another, I would like to strongly turn against what may have been said here in the House, according to which we will be taking people's food money, and it has not yet been here. It's just not true. For others, municipalities will certainly not abuse this institute. I know it myself from my mayor's practice because it's not in the interests of these communities. They just need an intelligible tool to warn chronic misdemeanors that their behavior will not go unanswered. I exclude that there would be a flat-rate reduction of benefits - the measure will be aimed at well-known companies, because all of us in our cities and municipalities know who often behaves disproportionately and commits serious offenses. Last but not least - and this has also been said many times - there are no unrealistic expectations that Mr Jan Čižinský, for example, spoke of last time. On the contrary, I am aware that this is a small and partial step, and it is possible that practice will require its adaptation in the future. Another partial step may be the second discussion of the amendment to the Act on Assistance in Material Need, which we are likely to get to today or Friday. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u3	I thank the appellant and open the debate. Minister Jana Maláčová is the first to report to the debate with priority rights. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the intention of this proposal is quite clear, and although it can be understood to some extent, I must state for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that, in the wording of the comprehensive amendment, there is still a significant risk of unconstitutionality in this proposal. The comprehensive amendment, which has been consulted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, mainly alleviates the impact of the proposal on the rights of careless children by maintaining their minimums of living. However, in our opinion, the risk of interfering with the constitution of protected rights for the provision of basic life needs remains, not only those who committed the selected offences, but also, in particular, the rights to the provision of basic life needs for persons who have committed nothing but are with the perpetrator in one circle of persons considered together. I am therefore glad that the proposal was based on the impulse of the Ministry, which is why at least protection for careless children was incorporated into the proposal. The position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is therefore still the same in view of these concerns about compliance with constitutional order. I would like to stress that I personally identify with the view that the social system is to be strict, to function as a trampoline. When you get in trouble, he's supposed to help you, but he should throw you back into your normal life. I think that, by working together, the right step to solve this very difficult problem was the proposal that emerged from the Ministry more than two years ago, and that is the 15 measures to combat poverty. Some of them we managed to implement, some unfortunately at all. There's no consensus across the political spectrum. The important thing for me is it's not about welfare. It's about a whole series of other steps. It's about protecting public health, it's about permanent residence, it's about housing availability, it's about swelling social exclusion, trade in poverty, and so on and so on. I therefore want to say that I identify with the fact that benefits are to be strict, to help those who are in need, but it is still normal to work, go to school, take care of their loved ones, pay taxes, obey the laws. But this proposal will only lead to further escalation of problems, especially in excluded localities, because this very complex issue cannot be addressed apart from the whole reality. Personally, I think that if we should list one measure that can minimise the issue of excluded localities, it is social work, intensive social work. That is why I am pleased that we will be able to make use of European resources within the cohesion policy programming period for the coming years, and we will really strengthen social work in a way that will be able to unravel the problems in a long, sustainable way. Because my concern is that this proposal will only lead to the fact that officials and officials at the employment office will have an even harder life, that the escalation of problems will turn against them, and that the real victims of this proposal will be officials and officials at the employment offices. And unfortunately, what could happen in reality was that last week, when our former colleague, who was merely doing her job, followed the law, paid with her own life. [[12.30 hours]] So if I were to sum up, the solution to the very complex problem of excluded localities is supposed to be complex. Fifteen measures to combat poverty are the right way to go. This proposal, even though we have mitigated the most fundamental, will lead to an escalation of problems. We consider him unconstitutional, and we fear that he will turn against officials at the employment offices. The solution is social work, especially in municipalities, which we want to strengthen to the maximum extent through European money. Another thing that may not be popular - but I think that solving the problem would also help if it started to be published, and for that is the need to change the law, who actually benefits from trade in poverty, who are really those who profit mainly from housing benefits, on a large scale. I think we're gonna have this discussion for the next draft. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u5	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík will now speak, and Mrs Richterová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the opinion of Mr Stanislav Křeček, Mr Stanislav Křeček, who is not the person we would vote for as an Ombudsman, that was a completely different voting coalition, nor is he a person who could be suspected of somehow, I would say, following the people against whom this law is directed, yet he gave a negative opinion to the law. And I think the arguments are worth considering. I would like to inform you of his letter addressed to members of the Committee on Social Policy and also to representatives of the Government. I think it is appropriate for this to be heard here in plenary, because this change really can have quite a significant impact on people's lives: "Dear Member, I appeal to you in connection with the discussion of the proposal by Members of Jan Bauer and others on the issue of the Act amending Act No. 111/2006 Coll., on assistance in material distress, as amended, and some other laws, House press 290. Since this is a parliamentary proposal on which I have not been able to comment in the standard comment procedure, I would like to send you my opinion on it in this way. As the original proposal has made a number of amendments in the course of its discussion, I am expressing it in the wording of Mr Jan Bauer's comprehensive amendment. I would like to begin by expressing my concern that the imposition of sanctions on the benefits of aid in material distress for the repeated commission of certain offences, in the case of truancy, is sufficient one, occurs at the time of the pandemic of coronavirus. The social consequences of the pandemic can be expected to be felt most by the poorest. I am even more concerned about the possible impact of the proposal on families with careless children. However, as I understand the seriousness of the compulsory schooling offence, especially for single parents, it may actually be possible for the family to live only on the minimum amount of non-funded children for a few months when applying the proposed legislation. The cumulative effects of current and proposed legislation on the situation of families with dependent children can therefore essentially be liquidated. I see the risk of deepening poverty and social exclusion in families with careless children as significant and perhaps negatives in my view outweigh the potential benefits of the 'terrifying nature of sanctions' which the proposer intended. I shall now make a more detailed statement on the provisions of Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 Jan Bauer's amendment - deductions from the subsistence allowance and the housing supplement to pay fines for offences. The proposal introduces in Section 51a a special adjustment of the deductions from the subsistence allowance and the housing supplement for the payment of fines for selected offences. The payment of fines from criminal proceedings is under the so-called divided administration regime. As a result, it is currently among the so-called preferential claims, for which it is possible to make higher wage reductions. The proposed adjustment of the fines collected makes, in essence, privileged claims among all other preferential public claims, including, for example, various types of taxes, public health insurance premiums or social security, and so on, when it expressly allows for the treatment of otherwise inhospitable benefits of aid in material distress, that is to say, a subsistence allowance and a housing supplement. The protection of the benefits of aid in material distress was enshrined in § 317 para. 2 of the Code of Civil Procedure because they are intended to serve solely to ensure the basic needs of the beneficiary and his family. The legal arrangements for the provision of benefits of assistance in material distress in connection with their protection in the execution procedure constitute the fulfilment of Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, under which it is guaranteed to everyone in material need, the right to ensure the assistance necessary to safeguard fundamental living conditions. The proposed legislation, which breaks the impermissibility of these benefits in the execution procedure, completely ignores this. The subsistence allowance is used to ensure the basic living conditions of the person, together with the persons assessed, excluding the cost of living. The housing supplement is provided for the reimbursement of the housing basis to persons who, despite the housing allowance granted, are not entitled to cover the housing costs or, for certain reasons, to the housing allowance. This is therefore aid to the poorest people. If these benefits are affected in the execution proceedings, it is not only possible to talk about a certain reduction in the comfort of their eaters as in the case of the execution of other taxable income and property. The idea that these individuals will not meet their basic needs for some time is illusionary. On the contrary, it can be reasonably feared that some of these revenues will also try to compensate themselves in illegal ways. The proposed legislation is even stricter than the existing haircut regulation in § 51 para. 6 a law on assistance in material distress, according to which the amounts of benefits received in material distress can also be wrongly deducted from the normally paid or later granted recurring benefit. This can be considered to be a specific provision of public netting, where the recipient of the benefit had previously unlawfully drawn funds from the same system. However, even in this case, the rule is that, after the deduction is made, the minimum amount of the existential minimum must be retained by the obliged person and persons with it together. [[each of them]] If children are not provided for among the persons considered together, each of them must remain at least the minimum amount of their life. This is therefore an exception to the general rule of non-permissible benefits of assistance in a material need justified by the specific circumstances of the occurrence of overpayment on a dose with the guarantee of maintaining an existential or living minimum. In the case of the proposed legislation, there are no sufficient grounds for breaking the principle of inadequacy of benefits of assistance in material distress. The proposal also does not address how deductions should be made from the housing surcharge, although the intention is clear from the heading of § 51a. In the opinion of the expert literature on the said section 51 paragraph. In practice, it is not recommended to make deductions from the housing supplement when this levy is intended to cover the necessary housing costs. Its reduction in the deduction of overpayments would endanger the proper remuneration of these costs and the associated risk of, for example, the termination of the lease contract, the disengagement of energy supplies and the like. In my opinion, the deduction from the housing surcharge is entirely contrary to the very purpose of the Act on Aid in Material Need, including for those who have been subject to administrative punishment. It is also inefficient to do so in families with careless children, even though the parent committed an offence concerning compulsory schooling. [[12.40 hours]] However, the draft law does not provide any guarantee that such a procedure will not take place. For these reasons, I believe that the proposed legislation, without legitimate reasons, disproportionately interferes with the constitutionally guaranteed right to ensure the assistance necessary to safeguard fundamental living conditions and thus adversely affects not only the lives of individuals but also the entire society. [[It practically excludes a group of people from it.]] In addition, I note that I have doubts as to how advantageous it is for the municipal authorities themselves, the municipalities with extended scope. They have the possibility of handing enforcement to customs under current legislation. The new legislation also represents an increase in administration for these municipal authorities, covering only a fraction of the period during which these claims can be recovered and with a very uncertain result. I therefore recommend not to accept the amendment of the law in this form. I am sending this letter to all members of the Committee on Social Policy and to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I will also inform the public about my concerns about the impact of the proposal on persons in material distress. Respect, JUDr. Stanislav Křeček, by his own hand, Ombudsman." Let me sum this up very briefly. I am also aware of the disastrous situation in excluded localities in the Czech Republic. I went to visit the ghetto in my electoral region in České Třebová, and the situation really is absolutely miserable. However, when we look for a solution to this situation, I think we should really carefully evaluate whether the steps we take will make the situation better or worse. And I have to agree with the secretary here that the role of social work is absolutely essential in those locations. Here we appreciate the benefits of the deterrent nature of sanctions and at the same time the disadvantages of having a parent who would like to send his children to school but who can't handle them, who loses benefits, and ultimately the whole family can lose their housing. This is the situation that we are assessing, and we really have a serious concern that the adoption of this law will make the situation worse than to improve it, even though I understand the reasons. I understand that the situation is difficult, but I will once again say what is absolutely essential of what the Ombudsman wrote. The idea that these individuals will not meet their basic needs for some time is illusionary. It's just the idea that if we take those people's doses, we get them to change their behavior somehow, I don't think it's set happily. And there's a lot of risks, like increasing crime in those locations. In my opinion, we should really consider whether these ideas will lead to improvement or deterioration in the ghettos, and I think there is more danger of worsening. For this reason, we will not support this press as a club. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u7	Thank you. It is Mr Jan Bauer's turn to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u8	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to briefly respond to my previous speaker, through your person. Mr. Ferjenčík, either you're not in shape today, or your colleagues just didn't tell you that the very same opinion of Mr. Ombudsman was read in the second reading by one of your colleagues, I don't know who it was. But what I'm saying is that I think it's fair and legitimate to have a completely different opinion, but I don't think it's entirely good here either knowingly or unconsciously making a fool of Members and Members and reading the same opinion of Mr. Ombudsman here that we've heard here recently. You may not know it, but that's how it was. And the second point. Yes, politically there are two ways to deal with this, about the big problem - either to do nothing at all, it is the attitude of Minister Jana Maláčová and I see that yours, or at least partly to do something about it, because our brief, minor parliamentary proposal, the amendment, I have said many times here that it is not a panacea for everything, but at least unlike the government, at least unlike the Ministry, at least unlike you, we came up with something. I'm sure it doesn't solve all the problems, but it's a legitimate tool for the mayors so that people who are permanently committing serious offenses don't feel impunity in this country. That's all it is, unlike you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u9	A real point by the rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to say the same thing. Through yours, Mr. Ferjenčík: we have all received the letter in our e-mail and you have read it to us here last time, so it is a clear debug from your side. I just wanted to say I said it last time. If someone doesn't do anything, nobody's gonna take anything from him. So you tell all the citizens that the Pirate Party says, "Do, do serious deeds, nothing will ever happen to you." Well, that's great news for the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u11	Thank you. We continue with factual remarks. Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, then Mr Čižinský, Mr Juchelka, Mrs Richterová, will make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm sorry, I didn't know my colleague read it last time. I thought the arguments were so strong that it was appropriate to read them in plenary. It wasn't me who read it, but now a colleague alerted me that it had already been heard last time. But that last meeting was months ago, if I'm not mistaken. It was received by the Social Policy Committee, but the vote will be a full House plenary, so in my opinion, it is appropriate to present the arguments to the entire House. And the last thing you're saying is that at least we have to do something, but if the actions we do result in some people becoming homeless instead of poor people dependent on material distress, I don't consider it a solution that goes in the right direction. I just understand that some people can really scare away the threat of the sanction, but at the same time, there are also some people who lose their state support over this, like they lose their housing, and yet they're not some notorious parents of truants, but maybe they can't handle just one of the few kids and they need more support than bullying. I think we just have to weigh which one of these approaches is adequate. From my point of view, this path is too repressive and little incentive. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u13	Thank you. Mr Jan Čižinský, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u14	Thank you for the floor. In my opinion, it was false here, that there are only two options - to approve this or not to do anything. [[A note off the microphone.]] That's what's been said here. It's not true. In fact, the solution is not that when there is a problem member in a household - and indeed there may be a number of such households - but others are really trying to throw away the whole household, punishing it because of that one member of the household... There's a lot of homes where other people are trying, where there's some kind of mental illness, something like that, there's really been some misdemeanors. And we're actually saying now that we're going to choose a more stringent procedure, but at the same time only for those who are taking some doses. That means, in practice, we say it's a stricter procedure for the poor. And the third option that is, it's a slow, laborious option that leads to a long-term solution, so that's really careful social work. It is important that this third option also sounds here, because it is not true that there are two options - to approve this or to do nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u15	Thank you. Mr Aleš Juchelka, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. But the social work is given to people in excluded localities. We're giving the state budget a lot of money for social work. We have the Agency for Social Inclusion, which also works under the Ministry of Regional Development for decades in excluded localities. We have many nonprofit organizations that work with these people in excluded localities, such as students and students. For example, we have fantastic educators who run schools that are specific in excluded localities. [[12.50 hours]] We've all been through this, the visit, we've seen it all. And yet since 2006, my data has doubled the number of excluded localities in the Czech Republic. So the money is invested there, these people are being worked with, and we have fantastic communities that, of course, both through their activity and through social workers in these excluded localities work here. But at this point, they're just stopping their activity because they don't have any other tools to work with these people, and we're giving them the tool. There is no repression, on the contrary. This is a motivation as part of the fact that it is actually a social work that has worked in those municipalities for decades in excluded localities. So that's how it is. It is not that we in some way do not support social work, on the contrary, we support it. We have the tools to do this, we have the finance to do this, and now we need to give the mayors to whom the excluded localities flourish before their eyes some tools to continue working with these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u17	Thank you. The order of factual remarks is as follows: Mrs Olga Richterová is now next, then President Tomio Okamura, Mr Jan Bauer and Mrs Jana Maláčová. That is the order of factual remarks. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to ask Mr. Speaker for some clarification. The translator said the proposal was a so-called minor change. I want to ask how this so-called minor change can change and improve the complex problem, which are socially excluded localities or behaviour after sporting events. And I'm asking because what's going on here is a solution to social work for the future. And there is my second question to the translator, whether he considers sufficient, as is said today, when social work goes through subsidies, and not sufficiently taken into account when there are more people in a community who need help or more people in a material need, so that the community also has more social workers. I would also like to turn to Mr Juchelka's previous remark, if you would be in favour of having the money more secure in the future, so that they can plan social work for the long term and not shake about how much the subsidy will be each year. I can give examples of past years, when communities that had a well-run social work, ultimately due to concerns about reducing the subsidy, which then came after half a year, released social workers. So much for actual practice. And then I have some specific questions, but I'll do that later. But to social work and to support municipalities, this seems to me to be a concrete constructive solution, and I would be very interested in the complex problem that this is all about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u19	Thank you. Chairman Tomio Okamura. It's a real point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a law here to end abuse of dosages that are inadaptable, and if I sum up briefly, extremist pirát are exposed here in full nudity. Pirates encourage the inadaptable to commit misdemeanors and not to be deprived of benefits. In addition, today we read again in the mainstream as the candidate for the Minister of Regional Development for Pirates, Mr Zábranský, councilman at the Prague City Council, is considering taxing apartments to citizens with crazy sums. Last but not least, I will remind the President of the pirates Ivan Bartoš, who said he wouldn't mind if Europe were Muslim in 15 to 20 years, and he confirmed his statement, when he attended a demonstration in Prague relatively recently: "Fugitives, welcome to the Czech Republic!" Indeed, this pirate extremism, it's already completely called to heaven, and under the SPD I say that we will do everything we can to ensure that pirate extremists never enter the government in the Czech Republic, because it is absolutely a disaster for any decent, working man. I remember our bill of termination here blocking pirate MP Richterová from discussing it because you are defending inadaptable people. At the same time, our proposal for the SPD law would bring about half a billion crowns to the public budget, which we could move to decent and working people right now in the crisis. We say to the Pirates: Stop pirate extremism! Stop pirating neomarxist ideas! And I'm really saying again, let's do everything we can to make sure the pirát never get into government because they're gonna destroy this republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u21	Mr Jan Bauer, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u22	I only wanted to margo my previous speakers through your person. Dear colleague Olga Richterová, read, among other things, the SAO's report on how effectively or in quotation marks more than 200 million crowns are handled in the framework of the Agency for Social Inclusion, how the SAO deals with the money and how it sees it. I agree with you that I just... and I know it, unlike you, from a particular practice somewhere in the city or in the village, that you need to work with these people in particular, but it just has some limits. And that brings me to the comment of my colleague Jan Čižinský. If, Mr colleague, through Mr President, you were not the mayor of an important part of the city, and I do not think you have the same experience as I do, because you are the supervisor of the city police and you need to know how it works in practice, I would think that you do not even know how it works outside this building in practice. After all, we all know that today there are two categories of citizens. After all, fines or money for misdemeanors are collected from all, only those in material distress have very often, and ask your city officers when you talk about it, they simply feel impunity because they know that no money will be taken from benefits in material distress because it is not possible. And what we are dealing with is that sometimes the fine - it can happen three times in a row - those people can always pay it, they become just criminal people, that they get to the same level as other citizens who, when they commit some serious offense, they get a fine, they have to pay it, and if they don't pay it, it just goes to offenses and then it can even be executed. What we are presenting is that those who are in material distress, and there are very few who behave simply in an outrageous way, will not feel impunity in this country. That's what this is about. Meet your city police chief and ask how it works in practice, how these people behave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u23	Thank you. Madam Secretary is now next with a point of fact. Madam Secretary Jana Maláčová, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u24	I agree with the previous speakers that in some excluded localities the situation really is critical when constantly, repeatedly, someone breaks your laws and still laughs at your face. None of us would like to be in the face of local politicians, because the situation is unsolvable. What I disagree with, however, is that the solution is some simple act that, as if waving a magic wand, will bring all the problems out of the world. Here it was said that the number of excluded sites was increasing. Yes, that's true, but the real cause is somewhere else. This is because the poverty business is really profitable, that the system, as it is set up, leads people to invest in housing, move the so-called problematic fellow citizens from all over the Republic, and no one wants to change that. That's why I said it would be desirable to start publishing who benefits in large-style housing benefits, that would be the first real step. I know it's probably politically impassable. [[13.00 hours]] And the second real step is systemic social work in municipalities. Really systemic, not for nonprofit organizations to do it, it's nothing against them, but in municipalities, because only mayors and mayors know exactly what they need in these municipalities. And that's how we're going to direct this aid. And then there are a number of other steps that are contained in the document Fifteen measures to combat poverty. Some of them we managed to push through, some unfortunately not, which will actually lead to the number of excluded sites beginning to decrease. But the problem is that the business with poverty is really profitable, and I apologize, a lot of representatives of the political scene profit from it in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u25	Thank you, Minister. I note that Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Mrs Richterová, Mr Čižinský, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová, is currently on the list. Mrs Olga Richterová is enrolled in the general debate. It is 13 o'clock, at this point I am interrupting this point, ending the morning meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Meet me again at 2:30. For members of the Organizing Committee, I remind you that the Organizing Committee will meet in five minutes, i.e. at 13.05 pm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-07-ps2017-111-01-004-333.u26	Have a good afternoon. Let's start the afternoon agenda for the House of Deputies. We'll discuss this first.
