ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u1	The joint debate on paragraphs 337 and 338 of the 1008 and 1009/ We dealt with these press chambers on 5 May 2021 at the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the merged debate. I ask that the seats at the rapporteur's table be taken on behalf of the plaintiff Minister for Regional Development, Klára Dostálová, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, which is the Economic Committee, Mr Martin Kolovratník. We will now continue the suspended merged debate, and with priority rights, Minister Klára Dostálová is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the debate that is currently under way on the construction law. I believe that we will continue this debate today. From my point of view, the construction law itself is of course very important for the development of the Czech Republic, and so let me inform you that I would also like to ask us to act, or we will act, even on Wednesday at an emergency meeting, and if we do not negotiate on Wednesday, I would ask that we continue on Thursday and Friday. At the same time, I would like to propose a debate for twice 10 minutes. We are also in complete agreement with Mr Kupka, for example, in the construction law and in the process of the process and digitalisation. The only thing we differ in is the institutional form of the construction law, but this can only be decided by a vote. So I would really like to ask that we have a substantive discussion, and if we fail to complete it today or Wednesday at an emergency meeting, we will continue on Thursday and Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u3	The Minister of Culture, Lubomír Zaorálek, will now speak with priority and prepare Mrs Dana Balcarová. So, Minister, you have the floor. [[Argument outside the microphone.]] Then let's give the floor to the Member. Are you interested in getting off or not? There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Of course, I have the curse of being here for too long, I remember discussing several such modifications and the amendment to the construction law. I remember the one we discussed in 2017. Perhaps some of you will recall that there was talk at the time that we had to change the construction law, because the construction process was slow and I think we were somewhere, that was said, 136th place in the world. So we made an adjustment in 2017 to improve the position of the Czech Republic in this ranking and to speed up the management. The result was quite contrary to what we set out here because the position got worse. So I really have an experience with how difficult this is, even one of the hardest ones for the House, and I feel like it's been going on for almost 25 years. So that's why I'm performing at this stage, because I'm just worried about what we're promising here, and how the creativity and the results are completely missing out on the result. And now the number and nature of the amendments to the building bill, as well as the accompanying amendment law that we are supposed to deal with, all of this leads me to pick up some fundamental ideas here again, which we may need to know before we press the voting buttons. I would like to mention here the three areas of amendments to which I would pay the greatest attention for myself. [[12.40 hours]] The first circuit I would like to talk about is the introduction of an automatic permit of the building, which is newly envisaged by the provisions of Section 196 of the draft building law, and the subsequent review procedure in the proposed § 197 of the construction law, as presented by Mr Kalous in his amendment. This is a joint vote on proposals F26 and F27. Despite the change in the heading of Section 196 of the Construction Act, in my opinion it is essentially about the return of the so-called automatic permit to the Construction Act. By simply comparing the proposal in the form submitted in November 2019 to the commentary procedure and the text of that day from the amendment, everyone will conclude that, apart from a few minor details, this is actually the same solution. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft construction law, the proposed proposal is based on the assumption of maintaining the existing set standards in the area of protection of architectural heritage, as the Czech Republic is bound by the Convention for the Protection of the Architectural Heritage of Europe. That's what we're applying for. These are measures to protect the architectural heritage or prevent the disfigurement, decay or demolition of protected goods. And what I'm saying here is - this is my first crucial point - that it is not clear at all how automatically generated decisions can be prevented from deforming, decaying or demolition of goods protected under the said Convention, to which we claim to apply. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft building bill and given that one of the conditions of the listing of the estate on the World Heritage List and even of leaving the farm on the list of inheritances is the existence of a guarantee of the protection of such a good is an instrument of national law. So if we want to pursue some entries on the World Heritage List, if we even want to keep the ones we have on that list, then the condition that the law we approve here respects the standards of protection in some way. So I'm just pointing out that that's what we're messing with here a little bit, because I'm convinced that those standards of protection in force today are in direct contradiction that, according to this amendment we're talking about, there will be no impact assessment on the values of the protected property at all. I repeat, it won't run out at all! You could say, well, there's a review, isn't there, there's a review. In my opinion, however, the vending machine is in fact only able to review it from a legal point of view or only from a procedural point of view, but it cannot be examined and examined factually. This means, therefore, that it is not fulfilled that the review is, in fact, only procedural or in the light of the legality of the procedure, but cannot be examined factually. To be clear, there's no way of knowing whether a house should be 60 or 80 meters tall, like a skyscraper. In fact, you can't investigate that. You can only examine the process of making a decision. So that's why I'm saying that if it's not possible, then we don't actually meet what's a condition if we want to get these things and keep them on the World Heritage List. And we're not actually sticking to the commitment that we have, that there is adequate protection in our adjustment. She's just not there, and that's what I'm saying here, that the impact assessment on the values of the protected farm will not actually occur. This may well happen, and we are actually violating what we have committed ourselves to in relation to the Convention on the Protection of World Heritage and the like. I'd like to tell you that what I'm saying here, I'm not just representing the opinion of the Ministry of Culture. The proposed established, I would call it the silence of the state administration, would not be a positive step towards the protection of heritage based on experience in other jurisdictions under the UNESCO World Heritage Centre. Do we really want to push for an adjustment that, according to UNESCO, can jeopardize our nominations for the World Heritage List? Do we even want to put our registered goods at risk? That's what I'd like everyone to consider if we really want to do this. I repeat once again, in view of Mr Kalous's statement in the second reading, that the guarantee, in my opinion, does not constitute the procedure referred to in Section 197 of the proposal for a new construction law. Pursuant to Section 197, a compulsory review procedure shall be carried out in specified cases, but these cases shall only affect part of the goods protected under those conventions. They do not fall on sightseeing reservations, they do not fall on sightseeing zones, although they are undoubtedly a protected property as well. This is an issue which the Ministry of Culture has already pointed out separately and explicitly since December 2019, yet the solution, abandoned during the negotiation of the construction law, has been recognised as inappropriate, and yet it is coming back. I think it's a completely mistaken view of what is an internationally recognised material cultural-historical value. I would warn you - which you don't all need to know - that only five goods registered for the Czech Republic on the World Heritage List are truly individually cultural monuments, and in almost twice the number there are registered for the Czech Republic just monument reserves and landmark zones, which the amendment leaves entirely aside. So here's this serious deficiency. In 2017, these values were very strongly reminded by my predecessor in the discussion of the Unapproved Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund. I am very concerned that a number of Members who have so strongly reminded my predecessor of these obligations when discussing the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the And this, my friends, the effects of the current standard on our cultural heritage are significantly greater than what was discussed at the time. Or does anyone want to say that the new building law on the protection of immovable cultural heritage should not apply in any way? How so? Or just because this regulation does not have the word monument in the title does not mean that such a regulation of monuments and cultural heritage does not generally apply! The subject matter of the review procedure is a review of the legality, not a review of the materiality of an automatically generated decision. It is more than a fundamental question to me how, for example, a senior construction authority, in the light of legality, would assess the substantive question of whether the implementation of the project will not disfigure the protected property. I believe that this question goes beyond the limits of the review procedure, and therefore the review procedure is not a factual guarantee, and I cannot therefore agree with the conclusions of my colleague Kalous here. In this case, the room for corruption, when qualified inactivity is sufficient by the Office, is enormous. Therefore, I also consider the conclusion on the anti-corruption potential of the proposed law as a whole to be more than questionable from this point of view. I refer briefly to the comments already made on the substantive intention of the construction law, when it must be noted that the concerns previously raised have never been dispersed, and therefore the institute was dismissed from the government draft building law without compensation. During the first reading, the Minister informed us that the bill of construction contains sufficient guarantees against inactivity, which were also to be strengthened by the complete exclusion of the possibility of exercising the authority of the construction office of delegation, as it follows from the comprehensive amendment which forms the basis for our negotiations. And look - it's not enough. We return to the solution of the automatically generated building permit, which was found to be problematic already in the comment procedure. I think that, as part of the second reading in the galleys, it was said that perhaps I did not understand enough the guarantees that Mr Kalous spoke of. Listening to him here, it seemed like I was kind of an uninformed lunatic. So I would like to remind myself that I am not an uninformed lunatic, that the vast majority of comment points have opposed this solution. Colleagues, it's 35 comment points. The Office of the Government, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, most of the regions, the Ombudsman, opposed. The Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court or the National Cyber and Information Security Office did not see this solution. The theory that I'm the only one who doesn't understand the adjustment seems unlikely, because it doesn't seem to me that everyone, like me, doesn't know what they're talking about. [[12.50 hours]] So did such a problematic provision really go out in vain by the Ministry of Regional Development? After all, the position of the Ministry of Regional Development on this amendment is also negative in my view. The Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Industry, Trade, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Environment is not currently taking part in this proposal. I still believe that the opposite is true and I believe that, like me, most of you will not join this gambling. And now I am returning to the next amendment, which I mentioned at second reading, and I am sorry that my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, did not take any more of my words to heart or seriously, and that he has read this amendment under number 8008. Otherwise, this is a joint vote on Amendments 07 to 034. It's part of the so-called four city articules. I had a recent meeting on this issue and there I was fascinated by the fact that we were accused of being afraid to enter the unknown, that it was a philosophical problem, my relationship to the problem of being afraid to enter the unknown, that I was afraid to step into the dark. I'll try to explain that it's almost true. In such a matter, it seems to me... almost irresponsible. I'll explain why. The proposal is basically - the four articules or urban articules - presented as minimalist in principle, with the fact that it merely moves the acquisition of the local planning documentation of municipalities and regions from the transferred scope to a separate one. However, at first glance, this minor change represents an intervention whose effects have not yet been assessed throughout the wide range and which ultimately means a fundamental change in the optics for the application of the protection of public interests in territorial planning and the way in which they are settled. The degree of binding nature of the legislation in its separate and delegated scope is different, or, in the case of a separate competence, it is not possible to rely on the regulation of sub-laws and the application of the principle of superiority and subjection. Therefore, the procedures and regulations that the construction law itself did not have to deal with today would fall and will continue to address them despite the relocation of the issue. Within the framework of the exercise of delegated powers, the customer is also bound by implementing rules, by government order or by methodological guidance within the State administration hierarchy. An analysis of which issues need to be addressed with regard to the transfer of the issue of the acquisition of land-use documentation of municipalities and regions into separate scope has not been carried out at all. However, even without this analysis, it is clear that a number of issues that have been left to date under the law are not regulated by the construction law at all. Even the constitutionally guaranteed exercise of self-government and relatively narrow scope for the entry of state power into this exercise pursuant to Article 8 and 101 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic carry with it a number of questions as to how it would be possible to apply constitutionally defendable restrictions on the acquisition of land-planning documentation for public interests at all. This is not about the principles advocated by law, but it must be assessed whether a change in this optics does not require entry into the level of constitutional regulations which did not count on this scope of self-government performance and did not foresee a similar degree of guarantee of protection of individual public interests. This would not only concern public interests for the protection of cultural or natural heritage, but also public interests for over-regional buildings, whether motorways, railway corridors or spinal products. At present, the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic provide a relatively high level of protection for the interests of self-government and there is no conflict between the independent competence of municipalities and regions in the approval of the territorial planning documentation. The transfer of the acquisition of land-use planning documents by municipalities and regions to their exclusive jurisdiction could thus lead to the total impossibility of promoting public interests promoted from the state's position and, moreover, these judgments seem to assume a different relationship, a different intervention of the right to self-government in connection with spatial planning than that envisaged in the amendment in question, whose aim is to further strengthen the position of self-government. Thus, in order to strengthen the guarantees of the courts, a proposal is presented in close hinge, which, as a basic idea, envisages further significant strengthening of local authorities without explaining why the strengthening so far is insufficient. The fact that a different solution is now being considered which completely changes the existing and agreed principles can be regarded as problematic and decisively contrary to the principles on which the protection of public interests should have been ensured under the new construction law. The proposed solution to the contradictions I'm talking about is more than questionable. It is not linked to the provisions of § 55 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 and 3 of the Construction Act. As a result of the transfer of the land-use planning documentation, the lines of conflict resolution have been divided into two separate branches, which are not included in the linking of those provisions. The relationship between solving these two branches of conflict resolution is supposed to be a matter that can happen in the government, but we have different deadlines to resolve contradictions, and there can not always be a connection between the two branches of conflict resolution until the government. At least, as a member of the government, I dare hope so, because the possibility of overwhelming the government with this agenda seems very likely to me. Experience with granting individual exemptions from the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, which was also dealt with exclusively by the government at the time, is a memento and we must be aware of it here at the House of Deputies. The fact that the conflict with one and the same institution concerned may therefore not be resolved by both the self-government and the customer, as well as the other institution concerned, does not solve the proposed adjustment and the possibility that the solution in those two branches will be missed at a lower level or the need to reopen the conflict settlement agreement already concluded is not addressed. I have fundamental doubts about the chosen solution in relation to the conflict between the institution concerned and the self-government. Neither the Government nor the Supreme Construction Authority are the superior authorities of self-government, and it is not clear why a body defending a selected area of public interest should at all submit a solution to contradictions to the government, formulate the basis of contradictions without the participation of the self-government and propose possible solutions again without the participation of the self-government, and why it should be the determining body of the government, which in its own way constitutes the supreme body of the institutions concerned, but not the authorities. It is precisely the fact that the government is not a superior body of self-government that could decide to resolve the contradictions of self-government with the state administration that led the legislature to the fact that, in the provision of § 136 para. 6 of the Administrative Rules stated explicitly: "The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to the resolution of discrepancies with local authorities where the matter concerns the right of a local authority to self-government'. End of quote. However, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly judged, it is the territorial planning of things that actually affect the right of a territorial self-governing body to self-government. This is an indirect amendment to the Administrative Code, whose constitutional conformity is more than questionable and which, in a very fundamental way, undermines the unity of the rule of law on the fundamental question. In view of the possible review of the approved zoning plan, it should be pointed out that the possibilities of State authority entry into the approved zoning plan will be further significantly reduced, since, in the case of the acquisition of territorial planning documents in the delegated scope, it has already provided a strong position of right to local authority, for example, the resolution of the Constitutional Court of 23. 5th year 2019. This is another non-binding concept of the transfer of land planning documentation of municipalities and regions into separate scope. It should be noted here that despite the text of § 287 para. In this case, the control is limited solely to compliance with the construction law. In view of the above provisions of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, compliance with the legislation issued for the implementation of the Construction Act, measures of a general nature and decisions issued pursuant to this Act, including compliance with the Government's resolutions, directives of the central administrative authorities, as well as measures taken by the competent public authorities in the control of the performance of the delegated powers, can no longer be subject to scrutiny. Moreover, the interests concerned will be defended with the support of absolutely different laws than the construction law, and therefore more than questionable, to what extent it will be possible to respond in this way to the lack of respect for public interests whose basis is outside the construction law. Thus, the question is whether the lack of respect for the protection of public interests outside the construction law will be able to be dealt with by a corrective measure pursuant to Section 288 of the proposed construction law. [[13.00 hours]] A supervisory action by the Ministry of Regional Development, which is known by the existing building law, has also been released from the design of the construction law. There is no dispute that the transfer of the acquisition of land-use planning documentation of municipalities and regions within a separate scope would constitute a fundamental insurance policy for the protection of the public interest. The absence of this insurance policy has already been criticised in relation to the previous wording of the construction law in the professional press, which happens to be... well, I'm not gonna say names. Names... I didn't mean the argument by that name, but as part of the second reading of the defense of four city articules. As I have already said, Minister Klára Dostálová wrote to me in her letter of 22. 2. 2021 assures that it is not supported by the Ministry's proposal to move the acquisition of land-use planning documentation into a separate area. However, this amendment was read by a fellow member of the MP's club, I believe YES, and by the rapporteur for this press. Once again, I am not opposed to seeking a solution to this issue and priori, let us first discuss the fundamental issue with the professional lay public. Moreover, in order to assess the possible effects of moving the acquisition of land-use planning documentation of municipalities and regions transferred to a separate area, the Minister for Regional Development has set up a Working Group on Territorial Planning 2030, and the initial discussion at the first meeting of this group has already shown that even the fundamental issues of the issue are far from being clarified and that the solution under consideration is certainly not perceived as conflict-free. The outcome of this working group is to be a conceptual solution. In this and in this respect, the Ministry of Culture is ready to work fully on this, and this is a platform where the basis of the overall concept of transfer of competence can be established, and where possible guarantees for non-reduction or even non-exclusion of the possibility of applying public interest within the framework of spatial planning should also be discussed. But let us not pursue this concept without preconceived consequences. It's like I've been told not to be afraid of steps into the unknown or into the dark. I don't think I can think of the consequences. And, as in the previous case, I remind you that the position and the department of Mrs Dostálová, according to my information, are neutral. Not only I, but also the chairmen of all the club members received a negative opinion from one of the umbrella professional institutions in the area of spatial planning, and this is the Association for Urbanism and Territorial Development of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment or the Ministry of Transport are also opposed to this proposal. So it's obvious we're just getting started. We are only at the beginning of the search for some... and not at the end, and the amendment envisaged moving the acquisition of land-planning documentation into a separate scope then tries to present to us the opposite that we are already at the end. Well, only the above exemplary list of negative attitudes can illustrate the Cimrmanian: Not this way, my friends. In addition to the two major proposed amendments already mentioned, I still consider it necessary to comment on the trend contained in several amendments. The entry into the basic principles of the construction law, which contains several amendments, can also be problematic. By that I mean the efforts to reform the fundamental things that are only misleading in nature, without giving clear rules to enforce those declarations. For example, these problematic provisions are found in Amendments F2, K1.01. In addition, the use of double negatives will make it clearer the practical grasp of these principles, such as the connection "does not lead to disproportionate." Yeah, when you write the sentence "can't lead to disproportionate," it raises the question of what is appropriate, especially in relation to the territories in which the particular public interest applies. It is undoubted that the protection of cultural heritage, natural wealth will also be an obstacle to the potential of development from the perspective of other public interests, but where is the principle of the protection of preserved partial values, territories, archaeological or natural ones enshrined in those provisions? I was looking for it there, and I couldn't find it anywhere. These are not the values of the territory as a whole, you understand. What is the expression "values of territory as a whole "? What's the whole thing? These are completely vague and abstrusive wordings. What territory will this union "as a whole " be related to? Often these are partial values, but the only word makes sense. He's the devil who's hiding in detail, and he's gotten really deep in here. The position of the resort on these amendments - again negative. However, similar risk solutions include amendments to the accompanying amendment law. I would like to mention one of the amendments that goes to the State Heritage Act. This is the amendment of my colleague, Černohorská, under number 8045. This is a vote on Amendment L10, which effectively represents a comprehensive amendment to Act No. 20/1987 Coll. This amendment amends, in particular, the organisation of state conservation services for cultural monuments, the adjustment of corrective measures and their performance, the issue of the right of priority purchase of the State, the regulation of assessment, regulation and other matters. This is an ambitious amendment, but after my trial, it has far from lived up to the stated objective. There are more issues in this proposal, and I would like to emphasise only two places that have an undisputed relation to the proposal under discussion in the construction law. I consider this proposal to be intrinsically contradictory when, in the case of modifications to real estate, which are not cultural monuments but are located in protection zones, the scope of both the Regional Monument Office, proposed in § 14 para. 2 and 3 of the Act on State Monument Care, and the Building Office in the proposed section 17a para. 1 State Monument Care Act. It should be pointed out that the scope of regulated work is not identical in both provisions, but is undoubtedly overlapped. Typically it is possible to mention the scope in the implementation of new buildings. The authority of the building authorities is not linked to the new regulation of offences. This amendment does not then respect the terminology of the proposed construction law, if, for example, in the proposed section 14 para. 4 The Act on State Monument Care refers to territorial proceedings, the issue of territorial consent, the procedure for building permits or the joint territorial and building proceedings. However, we will find no such thing in the present construction law. This was not included in any of the versions of the construction law that the Chamber of Deputies has been dealing with so far. This means that the approval of this amendment was a solution which would basically prevent the real defence of public interests in the section of state conservation care, when, for example, the same scope for state conservation should be exercised simultaneously by both construction offices and regional conservation offices. So I have only mentioned a few pieces from the mosaic of many changes that the government's draft building law and the government's draft accompanying amendment law passed or could pass in the Chamber of Deputies. And it's not just any cosmetic or partial changes at all. What I'm trying to say here today is that these are revolutionary, conceptual changes that deviate from what has been approved by the government that I am a member of. Once again, I urge you to draw attention to the brittleness of the substance of material cultural heritage, including our multifaceted cultural landscape. If, in the practical implementation of such a fundamentally amended law, concerns expressed by many experts and representatives of self-government are confirmed, quite considerable cultural losses can occur, before any correction or change can be achieved in the demanding legislative process. I regret that a small part of the really conceptual changes have been read from positions of government parties and to some extent, agreements that individual representatives of government among each other, outside the government, have been devalued with important representatives of the groups concerned. Not only in Roman law was the principle of pacta sunt servanda recognised, and this principle should also warn us about other conceptual changes that do not have professional or political agreement. Unfortunately, it is a fact that the high level of change in this discussion is very negatively linked to the inexplicability and incomprehensibleness of what is being discussed. During the second reading, I set one illustrative example that concerned a minor change in the provisions concerning the protection of findings not only archaeological but also paleontological or protected part of nature. The minor formulation change in the comprehensive amendment of the Economic Committee, which was overlooked by extremely meticulous colleagues or by the Minister from the Ministry of Regional Development, made the Ministry of Culture responsible for all findings, even if they fall within the competence of nature conservation authorities. From a factual point of view, this is nonsense and my amendment responds to this change. I am grateful to the Minister for his support. However, I must ask: How many such changes, at first glance, have already been included in the government's proposal, perhaps in good intentions, but without any deeper knowledge and some accuracy of the contexts, knowledge, been inserted? So I ended my second reading, as I recall, with statements that are even more valid than in the second reading as well as in the third reading. I just think that we can only see the tip of the iceberg and the ice meat beneath the water is still hidden from us. I don't think we want to admit that the amount of changes that have been made could have contributed to the accident of the entire building right, rather than to the accident of its Renaissance that we have sought. [[13.10 hours]] So I know that building law is a super hard standard, but I'm afraid this time we haven't been able to handle it and that what we have ahead of us has no chance of contributing to the recovery of construction and solving the problems that we have embarked on in this novel. I see too many risks. It's really a way into the darkness, and I'm afraid to go into the darkness - not because I'm a coward, but because I think it's irresponsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u5	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the merged debate. At this point, I do not have any applications with priority rights, so Mrs Balcarová is duly registered in writing. I will warn you that at 13.45 a different point is then firmly placed. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, allow me to speak here about my amendment, because I have noticed that information about this particular amendment, which concerns public participation, is being disseminated, and that is information that is very distorted and puts the amendment in a rather unflattering light. There is false information in the Chamber of Deputies concerning my amendment to the Government Bill, House Press 1009, and the amendment concerns the renewal of public participation, House Document 7609. With this amendment, I am trying to make a single change, and that is to rule out the rule that associations have the right to participate in all environmental proceedings. In other words, I suggest only that public participation be restored to the state it was before 2017. However, I have noticed that in the Chamber of Deputies, my proposal is misinterpreted by the fact that the pirát want to introduce the participation of environmental associations in all administrative proceedings, including those whose activities are not related to environmental protection. It's really not like that. I'd like to refute this mistake. Therefore, I asked for the opinions of Dr. Petr Svoboda and Professor Milan Damohorský, both working at the Faculty of Law of Charles University, Department of Environmental Law. I would therefore like to read their views on my amendment. First of all, Dr. Petr Svoboda's words: "If the construction office at the same time examines the issues of nature protection and landscape protection under the so-called integrated agenda, the building permit procedure will also be part of the management under the Nature and Landscape Act, and therefore the associations will participate in it. However, if the construction authority does not assess the issues of nature and landscape protection under the so-called integrated agenda in the building permit procedure, even because the environmental agency or national park management will assess these issues in particular protected areas, the construction permit procedure will not be considered as a procedure under the Nature and Landscape Act and therefore the associations will not participate in it. In this case, they will only be parties to any proceedings conducted by the Agency or national park administration under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, such as land permit proceedings or species exemptions. For this reason, Dana Balcarová's proposal is clearly beneficial. It will cover the participation of associations in proceedings which will be led by the construction office under the construction law and will touch on the interests of nature and landscape conservation, but the construction office will not carry out an integrated agenda in them." So that's Dr. Svoboda's position. And allow me a brief opinion from Professor Damohorský. He writes: "I fully agree with Dr. Petr Svoboda's view. We request a modified original version of Section 70 of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. It is today the narrowing of the acquired circle of civil rights, which the Constitutional Court, apart from this case, has consistently held." So this is where I introduced you to the opinions of two environmental experts from the Faculty of Law. And I would really appeal to you to support public participation, the amendment, because it was already before 2017 and the current legislation weakened public participation, but the one that is now proposed in the amendment, the even more right of citizens to protect their territory in which they live, and to decide or participate in deciding on the location of the building that will directly touch them, and it may be some production hall or it may be some very busy communication, so we should not take the right to express ourselves to those citizens. In the proceedings, they may object to various objections or comments, which may not be taken into account by the building office or even by the builder, so their participation is desirable not only in terms of the higher protection of the quality of their lives, but it can also benefit the construction itself. So that's what I wanted to say first. Secondly, I would like to comment on the amendments that I also propose, and this is mainly a question of planning agreements. As it is proposed now, in a government amendment, and in my opinion, those planning contracts are desirable in their principle, which means that the builder should be involved in the cost of the equipment of infrastructure that is civilly desirable, and unfortunately I see two shortcomings in that government amendment. One of them is unconceived in the sense that, in order to conclude a planning contract, and thus to reach the consensus of the builder and the municipality, or the owner of the public infrastructure, it will set an absolute period of four years, provided that, if the planning contract is no longer concluded within that period, the decision on the area will no longer be subject to a planning contract. And that has two weaknesses. For one thing, it allows the municipality or the owner of the public infrastructure to practically delay the conclusion of the planning contract - the explanatory memorandum to the government's proposal in this context even speaks of indirect building closure, but this cannot be the point of this type of planning contracts, and, on the other hand, it allows the builder to survive four years and then to build a predicted construction in the defined area, without any necessary public infrastructure connection - and we certainly do not want that. Both thus deny the meaning of this type of planning contract. If the purpose of this institute is to allow new private construction to be allowed only if the builder in the planning contract undertakes to participate in the necessary related public construction, then the original government proposal is only halfway. I see another problem with these planning contracts in content. My amendment rejects the sub-type of planning contracts for land planning documentation, which the municipality or region can generally commit to an institutionalised bribe from the builder to issue or change its own planning documentation, or, on the contrary, not to change its planning documentation after the agreed period. This type of planned contracts limits the competence and scope of the municipal councils and regions when deciding on the acquisition, award, guidelines, and in particular the approval of the design of the land-use planning documentation. The type of planning contracts in question seeks to circumvent this public procurement process and prior commitment by the municipality to agree to the construction. And I think that it is actually contrary to some transparency and that the municipality can later influence what the construction will look like. So that's one amendment I'm making. [[13.20 hours]] And another which I would like to mention and which seems very serious to me, especially today, when cities are very threatened by heat and drought in the summer and the city are created by thermal islands to include the concept of green infrastructure in the zoning plan, so that green infrastructure is actually the same as the infrastructure of technical networks. And it's very important because when you plan to build a new neighborhood, if you decide which way the networks will lead to green infrastructure, that is, parks or green trees, so that they have the same rights, and at this point in time they decide or have the same position as other networks, that is, for example, water pipes or electricity networks. I think it's very important. In this amendment, I mention one more very important thing that is related to climate protection, and that is the anchoring of the concept of the Paris Agreement into this Treaty, because it is not at the moment addressed in the construction law, and the municipalities sometimes argue why they do not take measures to protect the climate, because the Paris Agreement has been signed by the State, and they say that it is a matter of the state and that they as municipalities have no obligation to ensure that the projects they are preparing are consistent with climate protection, so that they have elements that support low-emission procedures, technologies, solutions in the city. So that is why I place the concept of the Paris Agreement and it should actually be taken into account mainly in planning, that is, when creating planning documentation, it should take into account that not only the Czech Republic, but at least the municipalities, are obliged to contribute to achieving our climate protection objectives under the Paris Agreement. That's all for me so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u7	Thank you. Next up, Mr. Výborný is the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, first of all I would like to make a point in discussing this press. We're ahead of the third reading. I would assume that the rapporteur will listen carefully to the dedicated colleague Balcarová and others on the spot, because, of course, the contributions, and mine specifically, may also concern some legislative steps in the third reading vote. I find it at least very disrespectful to my colleague Balcarová, I'm not talking about myself right now. But most importantly, this may cause a major problem in voting at third reading at the moment when some proposals for legislative technical amendments are loaded here in the third reading debate. I see Mr. Vice-President of the ANO Group of Parliament that he has registered what I am talking about. Perhaps it would be good for the rapporteur to actually pursue his position as rapporteur. [[A Member of the Colonnavigator sits at the newsstand.]] Thank you. I think it should be a standard for each of us here in this House. Now allow me a brief comment on the brilliant performance of the Minister of Culture. Minister, I must say that I am very careful - the Minister does not listen either, but I take it that it is Friday and we are really coming to an end - nevertheless, thank you for the speech of the Minister of Culture, because if you have listened well, he has actually pointed out things that we cannot go through simply by waving our hand. In his speech, he referred to proposals that are not only detailed, but which can significantly reflect on the effects and consequences of the protection of cultural heritage. I think that the cultural heritage should be sacred to all of us, and we really should not accept such a change in the building process and the construction law and all the related regulations that would effectively lead to a threat to the care of cultural monuments, the care of our country's cultural heritage. And we are also on this as Members across the democratic opposition - because you know that there is also a comprehensive amendment in the list of amendments, on which we worked together with colleagues from ODS, from TOP 09, from the STAN movement and from the Pirates, where we tried to respond exactly to the complaints and reservations that were raised from the Ministry of Culture and mentioned here by Minister Zaorálek. While it is noteworthy that the Government's draft building law here is critically evaluated here in this way, or amendments from the pen very often by government Members, the Minister of Culture, part of the government, nevertheless, Minister, I am happy to print your speech today and read it again on the weekend, because there are really things that basically copy our comments, our views, which we have presented here both at first reading and at second reading, when we tabled amendments, and I must say that we also identify with the very majority of the reservations that were made by the Ministry of Culture. So I just hope, when I am on Wednesday, because I have not been here for a substantial part of the negotiation of the construction law, he read the note that no one here will call the appearance of any Member as obstructive, because I think that Minister Zaorálek here has clearly shown what is the responsibility of the legislator and, in his case, the Minister: simply stand here, defend the resort that I represent, and in this case defend the cultural heritage of the Czech Republic. Thank you, then, once again, to the Minister. And because, unfortunately, there is not much left for us at that time, and I have prepared a rather long speech with the opinion of the KDU-ČSL MEP, and if I have correctly registered, the government, through the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, has taken a firm look at the discussion of another press at 13.45, and for me it is a bit difficult to start a speech that I clearly cannot catch today, so the basic position of the KDU-ČSL Club will be left to the further discussion of the 1008 and 1009 Press Chambers and I will use this time to present one legislative technical amendment, which concerns the amendment that I read at second reading. I would ask the rapporteur here carefully if he had noted that this matter should then be voted in the framework of the third reading vote in the framework of legislative technical adaptations. I'm sorry, it's a mistake which, of course, can be rightly read to me as a petitioner, but when I read the tapestry of Wednesday's meeting, I know that the rapporteur also spoke here with some of the points where mistakes were discovered, or maybe outspoken words, and so on. So I would ask in the same regime if it were possible to vote in the framework of legislative technical amendments to the amendment, which is in the system under SD 8014, the House document. It is to make it easier, it is Amendment G4.5 of Marek the Výborný, which I have read. Otherwise, it is Martin Kupka's amendment, Ivan Bartoš, Marek Výborný, Věra Kovářová and Dominik Feri, and concerns expropriation. There was indeed an error, which may have caused even the negative opinion of the Ministry or possibly the Gesting Economic Committee. [[13.30 hours]] I would also like to ask you, Mr rapporteur, whether it would be possible to vote on this proposal in the correct version, where - I will therefore allow myself to first read the correct wording of the amendment and then explain it - the legislative technical regulation is that in point 1, letters c, d to letters a, b will be adjusted. I'll read the whole thing: One. In Article 170 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 4 (1) (a) (a) the words "in accordance with § 10 (1) (a) shall be inserted after the word of the building. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and points (a) and (b) of the first That's the adjustment. Once again: instead of letters c, d the letters a, b of the paragraph 170 concerned should be correct. What is going on is: indeed, if you look at the justification of this amendment, which was also made at second reading and is also part of the written text of the amendment, the reasoning really speaks of points a, b, but there was confusion by mistake. The amendment, my fellow Members, concerns the expropriation contained in the draft which we are debating, as amended by the amendment to the quasi-government, that is, Mr Kolovratník's amendment, where from our point of view, from the point of view of the proposers of the amendment, the regime of possible expropriation is very broad. We must realise that expropriation is indeed a major intervention in the constitutionally protected right of ownership and, as such, it should be reserved for cases where significant public interests cannot be realised without such intervention. In our opinion, such public interest can only be what is mentioned under (a) and (b) in Section 10 of the draft building law, but not under (c) and (d). In other words, the current text proposes the possibility of expropriation under all, i.e. (a), (b), (c), (d), and we want the possibility, the right to expropriation, to limit to points (a) and (d), namely the construction of transport infrastructure, which are, in particular, constructions of roads, railways, waterways, aircraft structures and related structures and equipment, and (b), technical infrastructure, which are, in particular, systems and networks of technical infrastructure, and related structures and equipment for water supply, drainage and cleaning of waste water, energy, pipelines and electronic communications, as well as buildings and equipment to reduce hazards in the territory and to improve the state of surface and groundwater or waste management. For us we say, for the petitioner Martin Kupka, Ivan Bartoš, Věra Kovářová, Dominik Feri and me: period. We do not consider it reasonable and wise that the possibility of expropriation should also be available for buildings which affect public spaces or, where appropriate, civic amenities, that is, as defined in Section 10 (1) (c), civil equipment which are buildings, facilities and land used to ensure the basic needs of the population, in particular for education, education and sport, social and health services, culture, public administration and the protection of the population. It's not like the buildings in our villages, cities aren't important. Of course, we all know that it is necessary to ensure basic civic amenities, to build a kindergarten, a playground for children, to adjust the public area, however, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to give the weight of the public interest to those imaginary scales, to protect the basic constitutionally protected interest, or the right to property, on the one hand and on the other hand, the real weight of the public interest. From our point of view, when it comes to construction of transport infrastructure, it is absolutely clear. It is not often possible - and I have noticed a debate from the rapporteur about high-speed lines - so, of course, it is difficult to redesign, move and so on, so let's say this extreme means can be tolerated there. Likewise, in technical infrastructure constructions, because very often the lines or railways of similar constructions are simply determined, it is difficult to change in any way and without interference with property rights, the realization may not be somewhere. On the other hand, in the case of other buildings such as public spaces, such as various buildings of civic amenities, it is possible from our point of view that the municipality or the city can find their ways legal, in accordance with the law, to the land so that the buildings can actually be, whether in the form of purchase, exchange and the like - we simply do not want the instrument that we consider to be special, that is, expropriation in this way, in our opinion, excessively, over-expensive. That is therefore the subject of the amendment. So I ask once again that the confusion that came through the error, i.e. letters c, d, be corrected by letters and b, so that it actually corresponds to what is also described in the reasoning, and therefore, from our point of view, this can be considered as a legislative technical change, which I am reading in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to justify the amendment in its entirety and not to have to go back to it in my speech during the further discussion of this House press, I will mention paragraph 2, which is regulated in Section 170, which concerns the purpose of expropriation, paragraph 2. 3, and the purpose is to create conditions for the realization of buildings in the expropriation regime. What is in the proposal is as follows, I quote: "Department or limitation of the right under paragraph 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Again, to this end, we consider the provision to be disproportionately broad, which actually allows the withdrawal of ownership, which is not necessary for the implementation of the measure by its nature of temporary measures. At the same time, this provision also works with the concept - and this may be a question for the creator, I do not know whether it is still the content of the original draft, or whether it was brought by Mr Kolovratník, therefore what was prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development - and this is the concept of the protection zone according to the law, because it is a concept which does not know the legislation, it is not commonly used and unfortunately it can again be one of the ways to interpret it in a different broad way. By the way, remember what Minister Zaorálek said, yes, he also pointed out that not only at this point in Section 170, but also elsewhere, there are completely new concepts that can then make implementation practice, interpretation of concepts very complicated, or rather that under this, everyone can imagine what they want, and this can cause a big problem in implementing the construction measures that will be under the new construction procedure, according to these two prints, if they are approved. So much for the amendment, which I wanted to ask for its amendment before voting on it as a whole at the third reading. I thank the rapporteur and I will keep the wider speech, as I said, for the continuation of these two press discussions. I would just like to remind you, when I was reading the tapestry from Wednesday's discussion, my honored colleague Martin Kupka here presented the opinions of a number of important institutions, whether it be the Union of Cities and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and others - the Association of Regions, by the way, also - with a number of critical comments on the way in which the construction law is being discussed, and also on the way in which the final form also looks after the opinions of the Gesture Economic Committee, as well as the opinions of the Ministry of Regional Development. [[13.40 hours]] From my point of view, I am also obliged to introduce you colleagues, because I have looked carefully - the rapporteur has stepped out here, he is also a representative of the Pardubice Region, and to my surprise it has not come from him, so I would like to do my duty. Although I am no longer a member of the Pardubice Region, because I would hardly be able to do that, however, the Pardubice Regional Council, my home region, adopted a resolution from the 4th meeting held on 20 April 2021, which is an opinion on the recodification of building law. Finally, this resolution also states that it should be heard on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And if this did not happen from the mouth of a member of the council of the Pardubice Region, Martin Kolovratník, then let me introduce you to this resolution of the Pardubice Region's council, so that you may also perceive this voice of one of the 14 regional councils. The resolution was adopted on 20 April 2021 in the following text: "The representative of the Pardubice Region has discussed the report submitted and, first, approves the opinion of the Pardubice Region on the recodification of construction law, based on the conclusions of the Pardubice Regional Council's conclusions on public administration and legislation according to the explanatory report, part two, and asks the Pardubice Region to submit its opinion on the recodification of construction law to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, to the relevant committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and to send it to the Members and Senators of the Pardubice Region. Responsible person: Martin Netolický. Signed Governor of Pardubice Region Martin Netolický and First Deputy Governor of Pardubice Region Michal Kortyš." And now the essential, the content, the explanatory report, the content of the resolution, that's what's important. On 10 February 2021, the first meeting of the Board of the Pardubice Region for Public Administration and Legislation took place at which the detailed analysis was subject to the recodification of building law. The subject of the negotiations was, in particular, the gradual complex amendments to be tabled to the Chamber of Deputies for second reading. The government expects the proposed recodification to facilitate the construction business and start-up of the economy. At the committee meeting, however, there were concerns about chaos, litigation and costs in tens of billions of crowns for the planned centralization of public administration. The Ministry of Regional Development's long-term negative position on the proposal, including the parliamentary proposal based on it, is also taken by the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic. You were introduced to the resolution of the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic in the contribution of a colleague Martin Kupka on Wednesday. I'm on it. It should be recalled that the Association of Regions is not alone in this position. For example, the Government Council on Public Administration and the Ombudsman took a negative position, to which the Supreme Administrative Court of the Czech Republic joined, among other things. In its conclusion, the Commission of the Council of the Pardubice Region for Public Administration and Legislation summarised the most important points that should be taken into account in the negotiation of the new Construction Act. These points were developed into the following opinion. One. And now the opinion of the Pardubice Region on the recodification of building law: "First, leaving a combined model of public administration in the section of construction law. It is a long-term proven functional model of public administration, which is staffed. The agenda is distributed evenly throughout the Czech Republic, resulting in a very good knowledge of the territory. The argument of systemic bias is marginal. Moreover, systemic bias has not been resolved by the amendment of the Administrative Code under the legislative initiative, was..."sorry, "the system bias has been resolved by the amendment of the Administrative Code under the legislative initiative of the Pardubice Region" - you may remember, we voted in this parliamentary term. "The combined model also represents a proven lower cost of performance of agendas. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the The United Model brings the possibility of connecting more agendas with regard to the delegated and separate scope of individual municipalities. Secondly, an accent on the procedural aspect of building law and its adaptation in terms of acceleration and simplification. Indeed, the current procedural model is unsustainable in the long term. The chaining of administrative operations should be removed. The proposal for a new construction law brings at least a certain combination of agendas, the demise of independent territorial and building proceedings. Everything should lead to a single authorisation process. This proposal is halfway. It should be paid attention to it and should be further developed, as it is this path that can bring about acceleration and simplification of the whole process."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u9	Ambassador, I should interrupt you because...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u10	I understand, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the rest of the resolution of the Pardubice Regional Council, I will be able to introduce you to the proceedings of the merged debate on paragraphs 337 and 338. Thank you and have a good weekend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-002-999.u11	We must interrupt this merged debate. I interrupt you in the middle of your speech, so you'll get the word when we get to that point again. But now another point is firmly placed for a time. So I thank the appellant and the rapporteur. So now a fixed point is included
