ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u1	66. Government bill amending Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure (criminal Code), as amended, Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and some other laws / House print 762/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the motion submitted will be made by the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová, whom I hereby give the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Ministry of Justice has prepared a bill amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Civil Code and other regulations. Its main objective is to increase the efficiency of recovery of judicial claims, which is therefore a long-term problem. Instead of individual courts, prosecutors and prisons, all judicial claims the administration of which is governed by the tax rules will in future be enforced by the customs authorities in the framework of the competent division of administration. This applies, for example, to unpaid compensation for appointed lawyers, the costs of criminal proceedings, cash penalties or court fees. The success of the recovery of judicial claims, as you know, is relatively low in the long term. Definitely the largest amount of outstanding judicial claims consists of claims related to criminal proceedings, whose enforcement success in the last two years was only around 11 percent. On the contrary, in the same period, the customs administration recovered claims from other authorities with a success rate of around 70 per cent, outstanding fines handed over to the police with a success rate of about 55 per cent. It is therefore clear that the Customs Administration is much more successful in recovering claims than the Justice Department authorities which are not specialized in this activity. Increase in personnel capacity and staff salaries Customs administration will be carried out at the expense of personnel capacities and volumes of appropriations for the salaries of the budget chapter of the Ministry of Justice. The proposed change will therefore be budgetaryly and staffly neutral. The adoption of the proposal is linked to the expectation that there will be a reduction in the volume of outstanding judicial claims due to the concentration of recovery of judicial claims with the organisational component of the State. Please support this proposal. I consider it very practical and very well done. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u3	Thank you, too. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Dominik Feri. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u4	Thank you. We have a government amendment prepared by the Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic, which concerns a systemic change in the recovery of judicial claims. The subject matter of the adjustment is the unification of the enforcement of judicial fees and financial penalties and the conferral of this still fragmented agenda to the Customs Administration. The payments concerned have so far been enforced by the courts, in other cases executors, which have competed on this agenda. This will include, for example, the cost of setting up a lawyer, court fees or the costs associated with the link. Furthermore, there will be some fines imposed by prosecutors and other bodies, particularly in the criminal field, but not only because the law also affects civilians, as well as administration. The Ministry promises from the amendment to increase the rate in which cash penalties are imposed instead of imprisonment, as their enforcement will no longer burden the courts. In the case of outstanding claims, publicly available sources provide that in 2018 it was CZK 5.9 billion. The D.O.D. promises from this that customs can recover the claims. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I have signed up with the priority right of the President of the Jan Chvojka MP. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm not applying with priority rights to this discussion. I don't want to jump anyone and have privileges. I'm reporting for a material debate. Thank you. Of course, I support this proposal, as I supported the amendment to the Criminal Code. I am only sorry for one thing - but I do not think and it is nothing wrong with the Minister of Justice - it is the general infirmity of the Czech rule of law. If I remember, for example, from the beginning of the term of office of this House and from the term of office of this government, let's say from June 2018, I do not want to say the exact number, I did not look at it now, but as a member of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, I have the feeling that the minor amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code are somehow too much, that in the Constitutional and Legal Committee in principle every session we have an amendment to the Criminal Code or to the Criminal Code, or even both, simply criminal regulations as such. I'm sorry. I'm just going to ask the secretary what it looks like with any criminal code, that means with the Code of Criminal Procedure, because it's connected - if the work has progressed in any way, because I think the minor amendments, although I understand their importance, are not the right way. Therefore, I only respond to the fact that we have another novel, a small novel, a minor amendment to the criminal code, and we don't know if there will be another one in a month or two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u7	Thank you. Mrs Helena Válková is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u8	I'm almost sorry I'm still performing today, but you've given me an area that, of course, is closest to me, criminal law. I only wanted to highlight one thing. This is a novel that at first glance seems not important, it is simple, no one has ever questioned it here, but it can go to the word and to the letter if the courts stop worrying about imposing cash penalties that are currently hard to enforce and enforceable, those overcrowded prisons... [[release]] And I'm going to take advantage of that, and I'm going to take advantage of this counter, and I'm going to say that we have a big problem because, of course, covid infection is spreading out there, and if you have overcrowded prisons, I'm just saying, period, period, what can you expect? And I fear that the Justice Department is now facing difficult times in this regard, not to mention the Prison Service. But I'm going back to the proposal. I don't think any of us will question this, and I assume that people who have long been dealing with criminal law - and I know that Mr Ondráček is also reporting now and will want to say something - welcome this press, because the current situation can make it much easier for us in the minds of the judges by no longer fear of imposing a cash penalty, because they will know that he will actually be able to do so. And if it doesn't work out, it was a bad estimate of the perpetrator's financial situation, a convicted man, and he's going into prison, that's another chapter. That's the first thing. And the second thing: I'm sure the present Madam Secretary will respond or he can react, I don't know if he'll react. I will therefore respond to my previous speaker, Mr Chvojka, through you, Mr Vice-President. The novels are here for a year and more. Look at the time we've taken them to the hearing. It is not our fault that pandemics have arrived, we are losing hours when we are not obstructing, or more or less useful debates on how to help the government solve the pandemic and how it should not be addressed. It's not my place to judge. But it's not really last-minute amendments, and they're amendments to the criminal regulations that we need to discuss in order to meet what we've put into our programming statement, among other things - to improve the terms of criminal justice. So I would like to add to those we criticize, as well as us, the Chamber of Deputies. It takes us a long time in some cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u9	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u10	I agree with my colleague, Mrs Válková, and I repeat, it was a sigh rather than a criticism. I think that amendments to such important laws should be dealt with more comprehensively than with various minor amendments, because there are a lot of them. Check the records. The Chamber of Deputies for the various prints, and who goes honestly to the Constitutional and Legal Committee, so let's say 80 meetings of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which was in this term of office, really on each other we have an amendment to some criminal regulation, which means that this is being amended very often. I'm not questioning the fact that these novels have been here for a year or a year and a half, that it's not being submitted at the last minute. I totally understand that, and I agree with that. I'm just saying, wouldn't there be a more comprehensive amendment to the Penal Code or the Code of Criminal Procedure, or even a new codification of criminal proceedings, that is, the Code of Criminal Procedure. It's been talked about for years, and various ministers who have been in the past ten years have, of course, given their priority, they say that every minister who joins the Justice Department - and I would probably say that if I had to join the Justice Department, as if it never would have happened - so I would say that the priority is to have a new penal code and a new civil court order. And we don't have them yet, and we hear from all the ministers that these codes are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u11	Thank you. In the general debate, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u12	Thank you, Mr President. As my colleague Professor Válková basically called for me, yes, I would also like to speak briefly on this matter. A little with a smile I must respond to Mr Chvojka, through you. He says - I hate to abuse my preferential rights, but I have to tell you... So, of course, all we had to do was sign up for the debate, because we're really worried about the speaker's desk here. But it's your priority right, you got off first, just that it gave me a little bit of a smile. Yes, I completely agree with you, President Chvojka, through Mr President. A lot of novels. And I have a major problem with that, that's the thing. But let's separate the imaginary grain from the chaff. This is one of the novels that's probably important and going in the right direction. Those to whom I have taken the liberty of speaking before, the infamous criminal code by implementing European law, where we extend by another ten, fifteen, twenty paragraphs and pages - that is the biggest marast that is causing us a problem here in criminal law, even though I know that we must, because we are part of the European Union. But what we're discussing here right now means transferring claims to customs, it's the right direction, and it's necessary to thank the Justice Department for being able to negotiate with the Treasury and move this responsibility to Customs. I think the Customs Administration can be more flexible and more effective in this and the shortcomings that are in the justice system - and the Minister has been able to name them well - that means that enforcement is at a very low level - could also be corrected by this. So let's let it go to second reading. Of course, I understand that on the Constitutional and Legal Committee we will have to deal with this as much as any amendment that is here, but I think this is something that we will find relatively broad support for, and I believe that the wider support will be. It's a necessary thing and it's going in the right direction. So if I ever allow myself to criticize the Justice Department, in this case, he says - yes, you've done a good job, a shame it took so long, that sometimes it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-29-ps2017-079-06-007-066.u13	Thank you. I have no one else enrolled in the general debate, neither electronically nor from the point of view, which is why I am ending the general debate. I will ask if there is interest in the final words, Madam Secretary, the rapporteur. No. So we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional and Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 261, 92 Members signed in for 76, no one opposed. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone. I'm ending the first reading of this press. I thank the Minister, the rapporteur. The next item to be discussed is:
