ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u1	4. Government proposal for a law on lobbying / House printing 565/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Justice Marie Benešová and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Jan Chvojka, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 565/5, which was delivered on 8 July 2021, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee was delivered as the House Press 565.6. I ask the appellants whether they are interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He doesn't. In that case, I am opening a debate that I do not have applications for at the moment. I'm checking the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in. Mr. Benda. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must begin by considering this hall to be completely inappropriate for the House of Deputies' meeting, which is really something so desperate, and I am surprised that we still have a tendency to convene more and more meetings here. If we compare it to the main hall where there's at least something to hear, it's really almost tragic, walking around, everything else. So, please, let's discuss these extraordinary meetings until the main hall is repaired, because this really isn't an O.R. that can be reasonably and meaningfully handled. But let's go to the lobby bill. It is such as a special principle where, in my opinion, the Ministry of Justice still writes a proposal under the previous ministers, largely unacceptable for everyone and for everything, the government will, I would say, almost unconsciously approve it, which does not solve what it should solve at all, and the real problems that are now in public power, and these are particularly public contracts, issues of subsidies and others, where, of course, the possibility of influencing and promoting some lobbyist interests is much higher, much more fundamental, where officials will write it down so that it does not affect them as far as possible, so that it does not have any impact on them, and it is said: the only group to be monitored and to be strictly pursued is politicians of all spectres, that is especially the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, but (i) members of the Government, their deputys and advisors and other senior representatives of executive power. In a strange way, and I can still get to that, the President of the Republic is exempt from this. And now there will probably be a rather dramatic vote, if the President of the Republic is to be inserted into the spectrum of those who can be lobbied, or who have to report, which on the one hand makes great and profound sense, the President of the Republic still has the right to veto laws in other ways, but at the same time, when he is completely irresponsible, and we have learned from this President that he is even irresponsible for his statements and that sometimes the courts are telling us that he is responsible for the state, so it doesn't actually make any sense to him to impose any obligations of this nature in a situation where it is not possible to apply any sanctions at all. And then it gets into the constitutionally-legal committee, which will try at least some of the worst nonsense that the Ministry of Justice, or the government as a whole, has incorporated into it, and when, in the beginning, the law was a law to eliminate political competition. It wasn't about anything else, because the idea of those cross-referenced reports that a lobbyist is reporting one report - and I'm saying that quite frankly, I'm not the enemy of lobbyists at all. I think that lobbyists are absolutely the right structure everywhere, and in the Czech Republic too, they mediate policy contacts with the individual interest groups, they supply information, and all that this politician has to avoid is to listen to someone too intensively. The only thing he has to avoid becoming someone's puppet. But they have to listen to all of them as far as possible and, if possible, find the fairest solution possible, or the solutions that - there were even types of laws that I said were going to be pissed at us at the end of the law, we were doing the right and fair thing, because then it's clear that we found a solution that is balanced, balanced to everyone, and that doesn't seem to be overly partial to anyone. And then he starts here under the curator of President Vondráček, who has taken a big part in this, in some way to rewrite the law on lobbying, so that it does not happen that it is really just a way to liquidate politicians when politicians report otherwise than lobbyists. Suppose this has somehow been corrected into a form that may not be so damaging to politicians anymore, but we leave further developments to a bit of coincidence and discuss it during the holidays, the final vote, and we look at it as a huge help. I'm saying it's not gonna help much. It is probably true that if we pass the law today, we will not create a catastrophic situation, perhaps not, but at the same time the expectations put in place by the conveners of the meetings, whether it is the government movement YES, or colleagues from the Pirates, how the situation in the Czech Republic will improve dramatically and how everything will become more transparent when we have a law on lobbying, according to my great naivism and a big mistake. We would need completely different laws on lobbying, if we were to talk about them, we would need, in particular, to make the executive power more transparent, in that part of direct decision making, not in the preparation of conceptual regulations, not in the preparation of international treaties and laws. But no one cares, or any opposition has the capacity to write it, and government officials will, of course, never write it, because it would apply to them in the first place. So I just wanted a little bit in general about this proposal, which I think, if it is approved in the wording of the Constitutional and Legal Committee, it does not really mean anything completely dramatic. We will bother lobbyists by making reports every once in a while, the benefits we give them are relatively low, even though there are also amendments that extend them to a certain extent, and someone will feel that they have checked out in their diary that they have fulfilled something for the transparency of this country. All I'm saying is that the final check-out is gonna last until the election, then it's gonna find out it's no use. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u3	Thank you. And I see Vice President Fiala. Before I give him my word, Mr Václav Votava apologizes for the whole day for family reasons. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the law insufficient. I think that if he really should have prevented corruption, then tell me how this law will prevent this bill, for example. Corruption in the ROPs and others, where it was stolen, broke down 14 billion etc. That's where I think there's the biggest corruption problem where I think we should focus on it. But the law only focuses on how many times I write that someone came to the Chamber of Deputies and approached me with something. Yes, I've got unionists coming to me, I've got representatives of different professional groups coming to me, and actually the whole thing is gonna be about whether or not I'm gonna forget to sign someone up, and whether or not the subject of this meeting is gonna be listed exactly the same. I would say that in a few moments Members and Senators will be afraid to go to some meetings with anyone, so they will be cut off from professional groups. They'll be cut off from what's actually going on in those professional groups and what they want. Then it turns out that they will lobby non-profit organizations and they will dismantle individual MPs, and that Members who de facto have a problem meeting anyone to say what they have to say correctly will do so for us by nonprofit organisations with a political agenda. I think that this is completely wrong, because then constitutional Members of Parliament generally get into an even bigger bubble than they are now. They won't meet the public, they won't meet anyone, and nonprofit political organizations will. As far as I'm concerned... I miss the bill proposal by officials and politicians who are in charge of grant programs, ROPs, etc., because that is where the biggest problems have been solved in the past. Why isn't it mentioned in the bill? Why these officials and politicians in this proposal? So it doesn't matter that 14 billion in one county will be stolen, but the only thing that matters is that a politician, that means an MP, meets someone and deals with someone, and they need to be banned. That's what I get. The SPD movement has its anti-corruption program. We have in the program that, for example. Anyone who has doubts that he has property of more than 20 million should prove to the Financial Authority where he took it. And if he can't do that, we're proposing to tax up to 100 percent. Of course, we have a direct choice, the rebuttal of politicians, which means that if something like this happens, not that they will complete their mandate for the next few years, but that people can simply call it off if the law enforcement authorities and the court show him something like that. We have other things that concern the anti-corruption program. But here I'm afraid, as my previous speaker Marek Benda said, we're gonna check out some code and it's not gonna work anyway. And in another county, another 50, 14, 15, 50 billion will be taken apart, and no one will mind. Because the point was to put constitutional officials in an even bigger bubble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u5	Thank you. Mrs Černochová is still reporting for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would perhaps ask whether the plaintiffs of this government proposal or the secretary herself could clarify to me whether it is actually in that section 3 in the definition of lobbyist, where it states that a lobbyist under this law is a person who fulfils the conditions under Section 6 (1). 2 and shall declare that it intends to consistently lobby in the interest of (a) third parties, (b) an indefinite circle of persons or (c) its own, which means, in the case of a legal person, also the interest of its members or associates, so if necessary in this case also those who regularly send us e-mails. As you know, it happens quite often. We are approached by various groups of people with their problems, and we are contacted by a lot of people who turn to us repeatedly, and we repeatedly respond to them. He also turns to us very often Reconstruction of the State. I want to ask the Minister if under this law the reconstruction of the state is taken as an entity fulfilling Section 3 of the Lobbista. That's what I need to know, because I think it's also very important that we talk here. Because in the case of Section 4, where it is described lobbyed, there is an exhaustive list. (b) Member of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, (c) Senator of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, (d) Member of the Government and Head of the Central Administrative Body, in whose head he is not a member of the Government, (e) Deputy Member of the Government, (f) Deputy Head of the Central Administration, (f) Deputy Head of the Government, (g) Government Agent, (h) Head of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies and his representative, Head of the Senate Office and his representative and Head of the Office of the President of the Republic and his representative, (i) Member of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank, (j) This is a member of the Council of the Czech Telecommunications Office, (k) This is a member of the Board of the Energy Regulatory Office, (l) He is a member of the Council of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council, (m) He is a chief staff of the second to the fourth stage of proceedings under a special law in the Ministry or central administrative office in which he is not a member of the Government, and presented pursuant to the Civil Service Act, unless he is the Head of the Head of the Head of the Department or Central Administrative Office, (n's of the Government, (n) a member of the Government, (n) a natural person exercising a system of the professional or administrative work, (n) a member. Here I wonder, Madam Secretary, if there are any precedents about how the continuance is being assessed because the term is long, we have a whole range of co-workers here, and if they are all assistants published on our website, or if they are also external consultants. For (o) Advisor to the President of the Republic. I also look forward to defining how the President's advisor will be defined. If anyone who has a service passport to travel abroad on behalf of the President of the Republic, or if they are people the President claims to be his advisors, or if they are people who are actually listed somewhere and their names are known. (p) Advisor to a member of the Government, Deputy Prime Minister or Head of the Central Administrative Office, who is not headed by a member of the Government. And last but not least q) Head of Cabinet of a member of the government, Deputy Minister of the Government or Cabinet of the Head of the Central Administration, headed by a member of the Government. [[13.50 hours]] As my previous speaker said, there are a number of things that are certainly not wrong for us to take action as Members, but there are a number of uncertainties for me as well. And I fear, on the contrary, that we should not complicate the situation by adopting this proposal so that people here who may have some unfair practices will have a stronger position. I'd like to ask, what's the deal with the professional chambers? Because we are also being approached by representatives, whether it is the Chamber of Commerce, or perhaps as members of the Defence Committee, we are very often approached by AOBP representatives who also sometimes ask for a hearing. I would like to ask if this means in practice that we, as Members, will have to report every seminar that we have to carry out on the House of Deputies, because even for the committees in which I work, it is a good place to meet these people in full transparency, openly on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so that these people pass through the tourniquets, it was registered that they were here. We don't want to hide anything. But if that means reporting in these cases, too. I would like to ask, because there has actually been a big change from the original proposal, so if some of the things, as the legislator intended them, and it is a government proposal, could be clarified before the vote. Madam Secretary, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u7	Thank you. Madam Secretary is reporting for the debate. And I'm gonna ask for a little more peace in the room. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u8	I want to answer those questions. When it comes to lobbying, of course, it's a new material, so we don't have any interpretational opinions, they're going to be born. But something can be responded to right away. You asked, for example, if you can consider the e-mails sent to you by, for example, the Reconstruction of the State, because the Reconstruction of the State sends me e-mails, urges me, and they are very persistent if they can be regarded as lobbyists. Of course, I consider them lobbyists. Why would they do that? And I'm sure there will be a certain urgency of their doing, frequentity and regularity. So I guess there's gonna be some interpretational opinions going on this way. And I think it's gonna be one of the first things they're gonna turn to us for. Then you asked if there was an exhaustive list. He doesn't exist. That's not even taxable, the situations, to describe. So, of course, we'll deal with this. And the interpretations will arise. Advisors to the President of the Republic. Come on, those who advise him. I'm a counselor, too, but I don't lobby. Maybe. [[He's laughing.]] I'm not lobbying. And if the president asks, I'll send him my position, that's traceable. And I'm sure it's nothing against anything. So as the others advance, I don't know. I'm going in writing and it's traceable. As far as the professional chambers are concerned, I am also being approached by professional chambers, such as the Bar Association. They're officially recognized chambers. And now the situation is from the situation as they insist. It is, of course, their legitimate right to promote something, but it will depend on how I think it is. So these opinions are definitely going to be born. And that Section 3 doesn't even give legislative options to express it better. That's what we were very, very much wondering about. I'm warning you, we're not freaks. This law has France, such as Lithuania, Poland, so many European states. I think we're one of the last. It's what GRECO wants us to do, it's what Europe wants us to do, so we've been trying to adapt. The law was made for my predecessors. We tuned him up. And I'm sure it's important how you tune it. I think the C.E.P.A. was quite successful in going into some reasonable compromise. So if you asked, that's how I answer. And it's going to be interesting, and I think it's going to be one of the first things that we're going to be dealing with, some interpretational opinions about this law that are going to be created, as they do, for example... there's no case-law in justice, there's always a solution to the new law. So, if that's enough for you, Mrs. Černochová?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. And if I do not see any more applications - Mr Hrnčíř. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am here in a thorough discussion that is going on around this law, listening and I cannot resist the impression that I have had for a long time that this proposal is really going to satisfy some pressure, let's say the one that the European Union is developing on us as well as within GRECO and so on, but it does not actually solve the problem. The problem that is being discussed, and most people still perceive it, that actually lobbying is linked to corruption, which is not really true, and even the bill, as it is presented and written, cannot effectively prevent corruption. This proposal basically introduces a record of meetings, such as relatively narrow groups of people. In fact, where the award of public contracts or subsidies is concerned, even within the municipalities, this law does not really solve. And it is true, and it has already been said from the Minister that the non-profit organization Reconstruction of the State has spoken very strongly about this. Of course, I was communicating with them, too. And I was quite interested in, for example, I don't know if you noticed it, but it was the reconstruction of the state that did research among the Čech. And I'm gonna read you the show. That's quite interesting how citizens feel about it. [[14.00 hours]] Lobbing has a significant influence on the form of laws according to half the Čech. But they see him mainly as an instrument for godparents. Half of the Čech view lobbying as a noble name for corruption, 59 percent as a way of promoting godfather's interests. The Čech most often remember Roman Janoušek and Ivo Rittig as a lobbyist. This results from a survey of Reconstruction of the State, which took place on a sample of thousands of respondents. However, more than 70 percent of Čech consider it important to know who influences the form of laws. This means that the concept of lobbying at least partially understands three quarters of Čech. Most often, then, people see him as a godfather's approach, who want to assert their interests with politicians. This means that it considers only about 20 per cent as a useful tool for informing lobbying members. This means that there has been some kind of opinion or attitude between people that lobbying is something wrong, that it is associated with corruption, that it is carrying some plastic bags with politicians' bills, but that is, of course, nonsense. This means that this law cannot de facto in any way prevent those unfair practices that may be happening somewhere. And it is really just a sort of lobbying regulation game, a game of transparency, and really against corruption, this law cannot intervene in any way. I am very sorry that during the whole time this is being discussed, it has not really been possible to include those self-governments, where it is very important and where manipulation is actually taking place. We know it from Usteck, when 13 or 14 billion crowns were embezzled, and I think it's a mistake that we're not going to catch this in some way. We will only increase the costs of the office, which will control any meetings, will have to accept other officials. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-07-30-ps2017-115-01-004-004.u11	It's 14 o'clock, Mr. Ambassador. I'm either gonna interrupt you, or if you're done with your performance... [[Member Potter is already off the microphone: Thank you for the floor.]] So, with a factual remark, Mr Benda is registered, let it be on the record. 14 hours have passed. We did not vote after 14 o'clock in third readings because it was not possible because of the veto of the MPs, so it is not possible to continue to discuss this law or anything else on the agenda of this meeting. So if no one sees any other procedure, then I would suggest that we interrupt this meeting in the Grémia agreement on its continuation, with the grémia meeting, as already mentioned, starting now behind me. Have a nice weekend for everyone else.
