ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u1	530. Government information on events in Vrbětice in 2014 The point was interrupted in the moment... Mr Feranec to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Gentlemen, I'm only voting 168 - the record doesn't fit my will. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u3	Were you in or out, Mr. Colleague? I didn't...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u4	168 - the record that I was in favour doesn't match my will. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u5	Yes. I didn't hear the pros. I'm sorry. So we'll continue the debate. With priority rights - and now I don't know if anyone has been interrupted to vote. [[Member Bartošek reporting.]] President Bartošek. Otherwise, I shall give the floor to the Volný Member because he has been interrupted. [[Mr Bartošek is speaking to the President outside the microphone.]] So I will ask Mr Volný, who has been interrupted for time reasons in the debate to finish his speech. With the replacement card number 26, Mr Skopeček votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u6	All I have to do is remind myself where I left off. So I guess I'll do it again from the beginning, just to repeat it. The most important thing is to say what happened in 2014. In 2014, someone from us blew up a warehouse in Vrbetice because we needed to mask the fact that we were supplying weapons and ammunition to Muslims from the Islamic State and to Ukrainian neo-Nazis. In the meantime, I suppose the viewers who watched the live broadcast of Czech Television and the live broadcast on my Facebook page could verify these facts from public space. So our weapons were obviously used by both members of the Islamic State and Ukrainian neo-Nazis, and we still haven't been able to figure out, even though all those weapons have their identification, so we haven't been able to figure out where those weapons were manufactured in the Islamic State or those Ukrainian neo-Nazis from the Right Sector came from. What's happening today? Today, the fact that a narrow group of people here, which is... well, that's not good, we have to go here... who is economically interested in letting Rosatom be excluded from the construction of Czech nuclear power plants, and who is economically interested in building these power plants today in Canada's bankrupt Westinghouse, so here he is trying to inspire primitive russophobic tendencies in this country with similar expressions, such as the Minister of Culture, who spoke racistly about typical Russian behavior, and also by violating the principles of the rule of law, when the Minister of Culture here called on us not to wait for evidence in the 21st century, did not want us to want a judicial review, so that we do not want to know the truth and to decide solely on the basis of our political opinions and on the basis of political orders. The way he said it was great in the Dutch parliament and the Dutch government, where neither of them was waiting for what they found out about the investigation, he didn't wait for what the court would find, and it doesn't matter that there was no trial, the only thing that matters is that they were united. And as this reminds me of Soviet politburo and perhaps today's Chinese politburo, it can't even be more accurate. We don't need laws. We don't need the police, we don't need the investigation, we don't need the courts. We just decide who did it, we vote it as communists in the Soviet Union or communists in China today. Then we take this man to the stadium, execute him and dismantle him to the organs. This is indeed a thought worthy of neo-fascists of today, because a true democrat and a man who honors freedom and the rule of law and the rule of law will never allow a decision to be made without an investigation to be made without a trial. Do you know the difference between the supposedly successful Czech BIS and the horribly incompetent Russian or Russian security apparatus? That while we have nothing to publish here because we don't even have those photos in public, the Rus have two real people in prison who have real evidence that they were going to murder the Belarusian president and his family. They have evidence that the American CIA was involved. This is how I imagine the work of the intelligence community. [[19.30 hours]] And to all those who are watching now, and to all of you, colleagues, I recommend the book Aquarium from the first Russian GRU agent to defect to England. It's a perfect example of how the secret services have always worked, worked, and worked. Secret Service only cries out about agents if they have them in their hands, they have them in prison, or like Izraelec when they kill them. When a secret active service like Mossad kills a Muslim terrorist, they stand in front of the cameras and say, "We killed this terrorist because he's a terrorist," and here's the evidence. And that's how you work in real action. And what is the next role of intelligence? Disinformation, cheering up society, playing news games. And that is exactly what those once Czech intelligence services, which today are under NATO's direct control, are currently doing. If the BIS commander goes to American Langley and then somebody tells me we have some Czech BIS, it's ridiculous. The man entered such a protected space that he could simply sign a binding act, could become a CIA agent and is not trustworthy for Czech service. He's not trustworthy. He's an agent of foreign power, and he should never lead the BIS again. It doesn't matter if such a person enters the Russian embassy or Langley. He's supposed to be a Czech agent, not an agent of someone we now claim to be a friendly country. We saw this in the last election in the United States, how quickly a friend can become an enemy and an enemy a friend. The head of the BIS is only intended to serve Czech citizens and no one else. That is why I claim that Czech security services no longer exist in this Republic. These are security services, which are political pressure from this House, and not political pressure from voters, but the political pressure of this House to become security services of foreign powers that work for corporate fascism and for the benefit of the citizens of this country, because the actions of this intelligence provocation and this media game will be - I repeat - if you manage to play it to the end, and I hope not, I hope that you and your constituents will show that you and Russia are tired of it, that you are already embarrassing and that they are really tired of listening to the stupid hauntings of Russia from your mouth - I assume that your constituents are intelligent enough to understand that wars are always going on about resources, ideology or women. Russia has no ideology to spread, its resources are such that it can never consume them itself, women have one of the most beautiful in the world, and there are still more of them than men. Russia has no classical reason to wage war. And it's not Russia that's approaching our borders. It was we who were entering NATO, which had started illegal wars before, so we brought NATO closer to Russia's borders by joining NATO. It was without a referendum, no one asked the citizens of this country if they wanted to jump from the Warsaw Treaty to NATO. At that time, the government did not have the courage to ask citizens, because it also carried out some of the globalist tasks at that time. And you are afraid, for example, to pass a referendum law that would include the possibility for this nation to decide whether it wants to be in NATO. And as I say, even your constituents are tired of the way you're promoting russophobia here, even your constituents won't want to pay for energy, petrol, gas, electricity by 200, 300, 400 percent more than they have been paying us to this day, when it's glowing at home and it's making us sick or those disgusting hydrocarbons, and our cars are driving those disgusting hydrocarbons from Russia, which we so involuntaryly import through Germany, because Ukraine has been stealing from us, and Germany is desperately trying to finish Nord Stream 2 against the will of half of the European Union. How did Germany support you here in this? Will they declare new sanctions against Russia because of the explosion in Vrbetice six, seven years ago? Will it support us by imposing sanctions on ourselves, stop the Nord Stream 2 pipeline and stop using Nord Stream 1? Will Germany really do that? He's not gonna do anything. And so far, no one has supported us, because, like the president of this republic, they expect what will emerge from this Czech cocoon on the international stage, because it is a Czech cocoon who was only supposed to stink of anti-Russian phobia and who was supposed to provoke hatred of Russia in people to support you, who are corrupted by Westinghous, to arrive here with the help of a Canadian company that was unable to complete its last two projects. And as we have already said, the other companies involved in this tender have no chance of fulfilling it, because they would have to give us a prototype, an untested prototype of technology that no one knows would be safe and which would be directly threatened by health, property, but also the lives of millions of people in the Czech Republic. I understand that money is a powerful wizard. Because of the money, because of the covid mafia suitcases, you approved the pandemic law here, or you didn't stop it. Because of Westinghous briefcases and ideological guidelines, you will be willing to risk the health and lives of millions of citizens in the Czech Republic, but those people should know that. So don't count on you to get away with it. It will not pass until you push for early elections or until we are deprived of our mandate or anything else becomes a will of force majeure, so you will hear about it regularly. And I would say that the mood in society is that when we come here after the election with 30 to 40 Free Block Members, you'll be very surprised that your anti-Russian Russian aggressive agenda will encounter a very hard resistance, because you don't have to be a Rusophile and you don't have to think that Russia is the most perfect country in the world, but if you're not a racist, xenophob, you're a free-minded democrat, and when Russia says there's four of them, you agree, because that's what it is. But here are the people who publicly declared that they would rather be wrong about NATO than be right about Russia. And that's exactly where you're taking this country. You drive her to a trade war, you drive her to an energy war, and you don't even realize when you're drumming on the drums of war - the hot one - that she'll ever come sooner than you expected. And one day, he can reach you at home in his nightie or in your underwear. And then you'll be just as surprised as the ones who've had it happen repeatedly in history. So I thank you and ask you to support our resolution, which without evidence - because I don't need it and you don't need it either, the evidence, the Minister Zaorálek said so - we will condemn the terrorist attack by the CIA on the territory of the Czech Republic by those Američan who have very typical American behavior, so first they shoot and then think, or they will say, "Kill them all, for God's sakes will take them all." It's the bad Američan. Because if we can have bad Rus here, then why can't we have mass murderers from Vietnam here, those who've been dumping an agent orange all over Vietnam, those who used biological weapons against their own citizens, I'm guessing 20 years. And to this day, it would be a conspiracy theory if some whistleblower hadn't leaked the material. Which one of you knows? Who knows that several governments and several presidents of the United States of America have actively tried biological weapons on their own citizens? Who among you knows that the Američan trained an Iraqi lady to tell heartily how Iraqi soldiers threw babies out of incubators? Which one of you knows? It's not a conspiracy theory, it's true. Those who blew up our warehouse in Vrbetice, the Američan, did this. Which one of you remembers how Američan denied killing civilians and journalists in Iraq? Until the moment WikiLeaks came, it was just a conspiracy theory. At the moment the conspiracy theory was confirmed and the evidence leaked, there was nothing going on against the United States Army, a war against whistleblowers started, and a concept of disinformation, conspiracy theory was invented. [[19.40 hours]] And today we live in the age of conspiracy theories. A year ago, when we told you we were going to have covid passports, a year ago, when we were going to tell you that there would be closed areas, that we would be walking around in duvets and so on and so on, so it was all conspiracy theories. And today, the ministers of this government will be happy to write that without your passport, you won't be able to get into a restaurant. It's a beautiful silence. And why is it quiet here? Because you know it's true. But you also know that you can't party to anything else if you want to be in this house next time and be MPs, you have to support this anti-Russian crap, because if you don't support it, you won't be on the list. And if you're not on the list, you're not going to be elected and you're not going to be MPs and you're not going to be able to smile so stupidly here because you have to go back to the library and compare books. So, yes, you may decide if you, your children and your parents will ever see such a flash. You'll never see that mushroom again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u7	Now, as the next one, Mr... Yeah, let's put some space here. [[Disinfection of the speaker's desk.]] Mr Jan Čižinský will now appear and Mr Zdeněk Podal will be prepared. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, we are here on a very serious matter. We all know what happened. Russian Federation agents blew up warehouses in our country and killed two people. It could've gone a lot worse than that. Each of us is able to imagine that. I'm a little sorry to hear our ministers approach this. I believe that the Prime Minister should be here at this moment, our strong ministers should be here to demonstrate the unity and pride of our country at this moment. When I listened to Minister Hamáček, I was a little surprised by the situation that he said he was hoping that he wouldn't meet our country again. I think we should have a government that is ready and ready to face similar situations very firmly. I would like to call on us to establish full reciprocity in Czech-Russian relations and to definitively dispose of all the remains of the 1968 invasion. I'm gonna do a little more evaluation of the past few weeks and months here in the House. There weren't many of us who tried not to pass the Dukovan bill. I have to admit that we have constructed to prevent further dependence on the authoritarian regime of the Russian Federation. It was clear to us, even without Vrbětice, how dangerous it was to have any dependence on the Russian Federation and to strengthen it. Allow me, too, to thank everyone who contributed to the spread of the Russian Federation's attacks on our country. And let me also appreciate the work of the Bellingcat Group. This is a group that bets on civil society, works very well, and they have also contributed to the fact that we now have the information we have. The call for unity is correct in this House. We really should be united and really the government should represent a clear position here. And the right thing to do is call for firm steps and professionalism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u9	Mr Zdeněk Podal will now appear and prepare Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, first of all, I would like to express my involvement with those who died there and their families, because I think that is essential to the whole thing. The second thing she didn't give me was to participate in the work of the joining force, where I was in front of the revolution and after the revolution. I can tell you that back then, all of us who were there working for the state, we were ashamed. We were embarrassed in a huge way, because somewhere there was the Vrbětice, the crap that was going on, the milking of the army, when the chosen came and bought out of the army, they were questioning what was still worth and meaning there. For example, these were PV3S cabinets, and I had them right in the enzyme, which is why I know what I'm talking about. Those were even modernized machines that even the army hadn't yet, and they were already being sold to civilians. And I asked those guys who went there with the gold chains and the rings, and I said, "What are you guys gonna do about it?" What good is a hundred V3S? And they said, "Yeah, sir, it's going to Africa, we're going to put sand filters in there, we're going to renovate it, and it's going to cost a fortune!" Well, yes, it was. Then they caught our tanks in desert modification on Polish ships. That's how the army was treated, that's how she milked. I hope it's over, I don't know, I don't have that information today. I would even say that bad luck was that the army at that time had no protector, which it has in Černochová Member, Mr President, today. No one stood up for us back then. They were just kidding. The transporter was selling at the cost of scrap, I can tell you, for 30,000, that was ridiculous. Can you imagine how much they made on that? And that's how it went down to the vrbětice. How could there be so many explosives, so many weapons where they came from? Well, I have an idea, because militia warehouses have been stolen, military warehouses have been stolen. If you see the people who bought it out, for 12,000 new V3S enzet, one round 3,000, it has twelve, by the way, including reserves. So figure out how much these guys made on one car. And they took hundreds of them from me. So I just want to say, let's learn a lesson from this. There's nothing we can do about this, but in the future, let's protect our army, let's not let it rob again, and let's try to make it a decent army that politicians won't have to be ashamed of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u11	I am now going to ask Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková to speak and prepare Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will try to look at this matter a little from the perspective of the people in Vrbětice and the surrounding communities. International political ties and the consequences of the explosion of ammunition storage have already been discussed here. I'll just say for myself that the discovery but the causes of the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice are really shocking and even more for us in that area. You know, it's scary to find out that where you live is the target of a terrorist attack. The history of the matter was described here by Mrs Černochová, other government procedures, as this matter was dealt with, by Mr Jurečka. [[19.50 hours]] For people who had to evacuate five times, they did not, and some still do not have their land, forest owners have their investments thwarted, but this situation, as it resulted, should mean that their claims will be settled quickly. That's where it was referred to the fact that the culprit had to deal with these things. We seem to know the culprit today. The Zlín Region records over a hundred applications for land exchange or payment of compensation for the land. And here I have to remember and say that it was mainly the Ministry of the Interior after 2014, which tried very and very hard to help, on the one hand, to ensure security in the real world, but also to address ownership relationships and to compensate people for what they could, to meet them in the possibility of compensation or exchange of their land. Securing security and the entire complex in Vrbětice has tied one third of the capacity of the Police of the Czech Republic in the Zlín Region for six years. The medical emergency services and the fire department were tied up. These people served there, as they say, 24/7, really 24/7, and if you went to see it, it was in the winter, in the mud, it was just in the woods, and it really wasn't easy for those people. They really deserve a big thank you for handling the situation. We're talking about two dead people here, and I want to express my deep compassion for the survivors, but it should be said that there were hundreds of people at risk, especially from the fire department. Those firefighters got in immediately after the first explosion, and it was just luck and professionalism in command of the fire rescue corps that there were no other people left. This too needs to be put on the scales for how serious the situation is now. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies must take a stand on this matter, whether in an international political context or also on the situation directly in Vrbětice and the surrounding municipalities. Colleagues and colleagues, let me add that the situation in Vrbětice was dealt with yesterday and the meeting of the council of the Zlín Region. It also adopted a resolution on our initiative, which calls for speeding up solutions to compensation for citizens and companies. It places the Council of the Zlín Region to prepare a summary material on Vrbětice and coordinate communication with municipalities to resolve the consequences of the explosion. Let me give you this resolution - it is relatively short - to read it to you. The representative of the Zlín Region asks the Government of the Czech Republic to speed up and complete compensation for citizens and companies who have suffered injury in connection with the extraordinary event in Vrbětice on 16. 10. and 3. 12. 2014. Secondly, it imposes on the Council of the Zlín Region a copy of the aggregate material in connection with the exceptional event of 16. 10. 2014 and 3. 12. 2014 regarding the compensation of citizens by the state and its submission for the Zlín Region's representativeship. Thirdly, it obliges the Council of the Zlín Region to coordinate communication with affected municipalities in order to resolve the further consequences of these events and to keep representatives of the Zlín Region informed about these negotiations. On the basis of this resolution, I can perhaps say that, as the Zlín Region, we are ready to participate and cooperate with the government in the rapid completion of the settlement of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice and indemnification, the implementation of compensation for citizens affected by the explosion in Vrbětice. Thank you, colleagues, for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u13	Mrs Helena Langšádlová will now appear and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I guess we were all in shock when we saw the news on Saturday about an unprecedented attack in Vrbětice. At the moment, thanks are due mainly to all who participated in the discovery and examination of this attack. But what is our role at the moment? These are steps that will strengthen our security and ensure our sovereignty. I fully agree with all the proposals read here by my colleague Jan Bartošek. These are the proposals of the COO coalition, and I would be very happy if you would support them. Yes, we are to reduce the number of people at the Russian Embassy, coordinate action with the allies, demand damages, strengthen the Alliance to pay attention to these new threats, because from the last few years, we have many reports on Russia's intervention, not just those that Minister Zaorálek said very precisely about the situation in Ukraine, about what happened in the shooting down of the aircraft and the attacks on the elections, referendums and so on. And I've been talking about this a lot in the last few years. I think we're supposed to think about not just Vrbětice, because that's the tip of the iceberg. The willows are the tip of the iceberg of what happens in our country and other countries, but we have to think about the system. I am very glad that we are here, we just have an action plan and an audit has been carried out before, but unfortunately, the new steps in the action plan have not been met. They weren't filled, and I think that's a big mistake. At this point - and I would like to thank the government - yesterday, perhaps a little symbolically, the National Strategy for the Leadership of hybrid problems has been adopted, because we all know that the forms of attack, the forms of interference with our sovereignty, have been very diverse in recent years. I would like to point out that we cannot only adopt this strategy, but there must be a really good action plan for this, but above all, it must be implemented. You know, colleagues, that I proposed here three years ago the establishment of an investigative commission of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to evaluate the influence of authoritarian regimes on the internal affairs of the Czech political system. I was arguing with words very similar to what they're saying here today. Yes, it must be our duty to take steps, systemic steps, to make our society more resilient. The point is that we are safe and sovereign in the future, and in relation to what is happening, and I say, with much that has been said here today, I would like to draw attention to one subject - or actually two - that I have been talking about in recent months. The first is misinformation. In connection with Vrbětice, after the announcement, after the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister stepped up in front of the cameras, social networks, which is our new battlefield, began to spread a lot of disinformation about Vrbětice. Lots of misinformation. Even when I met some of the analyses, what happened here? Immediately after the publication of existing evidence of the involvement of GRU agents in the explosion of the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice, in most apolitical groups aimed at protesting against covido measures, groups of parents opposed to testing, they began to discover contributions defending Russia, questioning Czech secret services, spreading fear of war or on behalf of the Czech people apologizing to Vladimir Putin. [[20.00 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is no coincidence! In fact, they've already been widely distributed by Russian sources and long-term disinformation about covid. This is also mentioned in the European Commission's document, which we discussed on the Committee on European Affairs. I could continue with these examples here, but I would really like you to take disinformation in this case as the government did not take my appeals seriously, but the appeals of many of you to talk about covid, about vaccination, I would like to ask you to take it seriously in this case, because that is actually questioning institutions, questioning the decisions of the Chamber of Deputies, the government and the surveys we have here, so there are already 20 to 30 percent of people who trust these misinformation narratives, conspiracy theories. And that's a threat, a threat to all of us. At this point, I would like to emphasise that we all want a diplomatic solution. No one wants war, war conflict, but on the other hand, we all know that in the case of Russia we must express absolutely firm positions, very clear views, because everything else will be seen as weakness. We see what happened to diplomats. As a country attacked, we sent proven agents of the Russian Federation home, probably not all of them yet, and in the next few months, about 20 of our diplomats were banned. It must not remain there because it would not be judged as a good will for communication, but it would only be judged as our weakness. So I beg the government very much to take seriously misinformation and use its capabilities for strategic communication. That's one of the tools to face misinformation. And the government has its capacity. The second thing I'd like to do is Rosatom. I've been in this place, ladies and gentlemen, many times in the last few months. I have been begging you to take seriously what our intelligence services are saying to take seriously the government resolution, because I really wanted you to take into account the government resolution on the security aspects of Dukovan's construction all the time. So once again, let us take this seriously, insist on incorporating these security interests of the state into the procurement documents. Let us take steps to really fill what has been declared here, which means that Rosatom does not participate as a direct supplier, sub-contractor or by handing over a licence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living in difficult times, and I would also like to express that I am certainly not against Russian citizens. We have set up a group of Russian friends here with many of you. I think there is also a need for dialogue, but really clear, with clear firm responses to situations like today when our sovereignty is threatened when our security is threatened. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a great advantage in these times, we are a strong part of the North Atlantic Alliance and of the European Union, so it is very important that we take advantage of this alliance even at the moment, even when we ourselves are at risk, because solidarity, mutual support is extremely important in meeting the threats we face. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u15	Mr Leo Luzar will now appear. So far, this is the last application for a general debate. So, Mr. Ambassador, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am glad that you are here, you have had a pretty good speech again today, you are a good speaker. But you used arguments that weren't so good. You spoke well, but unilaterally. As former Minister of Foreign Affairs, I'm sure you know how bipolarly the world is divided, a world that often fights through dishonest means, and I don't consider the secret services to be completely honest forces of the army that work somehow, fighting in that world. [[is]] You spoke of the disaster of the plane, the dead, of course it's a tragedy, and I would be very happy if those who caused it were punished, all of them without distinction, and not that it would be abused. Because of course the worst is, and it feeds the misinformation, it's abuse of information and move it somewhere. I could recall here the situation of the Američan in Iraq during General Sulejmání, when civilians died, soldiers of a friendly army, those were Iráčan who were there in quotation marks friends in a foreign state. Yet the Američan threw a rocket in there. I could talk about Mosad and physicist Fachrízádeh, a Fachrízádeh who was killed by a bomb just because he was doing nuclear research. And the Izraelec don't even know if the nuclear research will or won't be and what condition it's in. Personally, I think Iran is unable to produce a nuclear weapon unlike Israel, which, according to all experts, it has and yet denies. [[th au]] Those are the things that are in that world. I don't think those who are interested in foreign policy need to be convinced that the world is not black and white and is not good and bad. But the whole time today's debate has been said here that we are part of the good part of the world, and the only bad ones are the ones to the east, the bad Russia. I have no illusions about Putinův Russia. Even Russian communists who are in opposition to Russia have great reservations about Putin's economic policy and other matters, and there is no walk through the pink orchard in Russia, we can certainly say that, especially when troops are concentrating on its borders, fighting in Ukraine, fighting in Karabakh, Turkey and others. The international situation at this time is really not good. Yet here we are talking about some clear defined danger, remembering the situation that occurred here seven years ago. There were dozens of speeches after the explosion in Vrbětice here at this counter, which dealt with and discussed all the situations. But it's been seven years, and I think we have one huge debt. Debt to the citizens of Vrbětic to learn what actually happened there in Vrbětice. It says here: Yes, it was an attack by probably Russian agents who probably put some kind of explosive in there and she blew up these two warehouses. And that was a mistake, because those warehouses were supposed to explode somewhere along the way, and they could even cause more damage. This is the official information given by the media, which was also heard from Minister Hamáček's mouth, which he repeated here and was discussed. But we live in a free world of information, and already here is information about the Bulgarian trail in Vrbetice, when Bulgarian arms dealer Gebrev denies the claims of Czech investigators that he did not want to export any weapons from Vrbetice all year long. He does not deny that there were, his property, the goods, as the Prime Minister said, but that he did not want to transport him, that he should have stayed there and that there were no arguments that testified that he wanted to export it. He had them stored here. It's a slight contradiction, but it was used here. And we remain in conflict somewhere in the air. But that's irrelevant, because the bad Rus... And I'm not saying they're nice. [[20.10 hours]] Another contradiction that appears is the contradiction with the Czech company Imex Group, Ostrava company. I'm from Ostrava, we're actually countrymen from this area. We know, and that was also one of the important arguments that was made seven years ago at Vrbetice's that the company had an outrageous mess. An outrageous mess in the record! An outrageous mess in storage! No one knew what goods, how many goods, what historical groups, what is there. At the time, there was talk of anti-Physical mines from Hungary, banned conventions that suddenly appeared there somewhere. How is that possible? Well, we didn't know they were land mines. But still, let's remember the debates. I'm not gonna bring them up here to remind everyone who performed here today of his words seven years ago. But I think we can agree that the company - a private company - stored weapons, ammunition of unknown origin, unknown quantity and unknown purpose there. There's been information that it's supposed to be a delabored ammo, that it's supposed to be delaborated - redesigned into explosives and used in the civilian sector. Is that true? Doesn't the investigator owe any information here? Does Vrbětic not owe anything to the citizens to inform them of what was actually going on in the cadastral of their community? There is talk that Russia should compensate - yes, if it has caused this damage, it certainly has. But I have to ask, and it was said yesterday from the Senate in the framework of their resolution, even to the UN Security Council, we're going to drag it to compensate the bad Rus. I will be glad to see fellow Senators take Germany's debt to the Security Council for the Second World War, which we have been waiting for in vain for so many years. This will not satisfy the citizens of Vrbětic when we wait here since the war, we all citizens of the Czech Republic, for compensation. I would not like the citizens of Vrbětic to wait 75 years for compensation. That is why, in my motion for a resolution, which I will present here for the KSČM club, I would like to see them be compensated quickly and any damage the Czech State has claimed on those who caused it. That would be the right procedure. It sounded from your mouth, Minister, that you would like to maintain diplomatic relations somehow. You're right. In this I am able to agree with you at 99 percent, compared to all colleagues here who have said for which best it would be to build barbed wire in the east, cancel the embassy here and simply pretend that Russia does not exist. But it does exist. We have, like, hundreds of companies that work there, they do business in Russia. We have a surplus in the trade balance, and it is about 100 billion a year, which, of course, also bears witness to something. And most importantly, we should negotiate with the Russian side to explain these procedures to us. Yes, in diplomacy it is said that when two sides are separated by a dug-out moat, there must be a middleman to build a bridge. Too bad Mr. Hamáček isn't here as Secretary of State. So I would ask him to turn to the Bulgarian partners because Bulgaria is a partially interested country, because the ammunition that exploded there was a Bulgarian arms dealer so that it would be the patron of this debate and agreement and negotiations between the Russian party and the Czech party and mediate this here. That's the state you said you didn't know whether you had confidence in him or not. I think we should have confidence in Bulgaria, and Bulgaria also declares that it has quite a problem, a state problem, with this arms dealer. It would be good if such an intermediary were and led the negotiations so that we could find a reasonable alternative to get out of this matter. And once again, I'm not apologizing to Russia. I realize his position in the global world and the methods that are used to sustain the global world. I don't have to agree with them, and I don't agree with them, as I did a long time ago when they asked me, now I don't know, from some Demagog journal, if I also condemned what I said, that means attacking the French secret services on Greenpeace, the rainbow warrior, when the secret services blew up a civilian ship. It just happened to come up because there weren't many Francouz like that in that little Caribbean port, so they found them. It was a great shame at the time, and there was a lot of writing about it. But even such methods are used by the secret service of the democratic state, the French democratic state against Greenpeace, at the beginning. And they just wanted to defend the whales, yet they blew up their boat. If the Francouz are a suitable partner for Dukovan's completion when they have such experience? But these Dukovany have been mentioned many times. I think you're a listener, a spectator, and most importantly, you're going to make a picture of if the Dukovany weren't one of the engines of this campaign, either. But something happened seven years ago, and it needs to be dealt with. It's possible the Secret Service really found traces of a detonator somewhere. Those agents sent photos of their passports here in 2014 with their photos on them. And because of that, the Secret Service knows... [[Reactions in the O.R.]] It's possible. I'm just surprised that the same passports, the same photos, the same people used in 2018. Do our secret services really work with other friendly secret services and pass on the information the way they're supposed to? How come they ran away from Britain when they already knew they were there? How come they didn't get arrested? Maybe here's an explanation as to why Skripal didn't die. The Angličan might already have prepared an antidote because they knew they were moving there. But how could they escape? Why did they let them get away when they already knew about them? And why didn't they give them to us when we already had this information that Russian agents are moving here, even with photographs? With the photographs! I don't know agents who would send their photos forward and ask for access to some closed factory. The report even talks about it, and seven years ago, the owner suddenly appeared in Vrbětice the day before. He was passing through, no one checked on him because he's the owner. This gave rise to suspicion that it wasn't precisely that empty spaces were being cleaned after the containers and boxes and boxes that were supposed to be there and which were being exported. Because it often appears, and it is not Russia's invention, it is not an invention or left-wing disinformers and the like that Czech weapons, Czech explosives, Czech rockets of Russian origin obviously end up in battlefields in Africa, ends up in battlefields of Arabia, ends up with terrorist groups. How could they have gotten there? Does the Security Information Service know about Czech companies that have permission to trade - I have no doubt that they have permission - where does what they sell end? Because to settle for what was said here, they sold it to Bulgaria without saying where the weapons from Bulgaria would end up, I consider it insufficient information. Because we should also ask where the Russian agents' motive, as it was said here, is to blow up the warehouse in Vrbětice. What's the motive? Even Američan without motive wouldn't dare kill anyone, blow something up on suspicion. And the warehouse? Where's the old ammo, the old weapons, and they're even supposed to be used to do a job, that means peaceful use, not export somewhere, as it was said? Why would two Russian agents risk and drive here to blow up this warehouse if the guns didn't hurt them? And I'm not saying they didn't do it. I'm asking again because these are questions that somebody has to answer. For seven years, these answers remain in the air and no one answers them. [[20.20 hours]] How is that possible? And just when the Dukovany decision is made, just when the Secret Service needs arguments that the Chamber of Deputies rightly called for, this case will appear. Maybe it's a coincidence, I take it, coincidences happen, I won't discuss it anymore. At least I believe that the secret services have prepared so much that they are able to prove this by some kind of data, but I am not the one who has the right to look at it. I'm gonna wait for the President who has the right to look at it and he's gonna get the message. And I don't think it's gonna be long before he announced that he was gonna get out and tell us how he felt. Because what I heard from the government, which also has that right, and the leaders of those security ministries have that right, didn't convince me very much, because conflicting data over time in that chronology, the excuses of the Minister of the Interior and the Foreign Minister, the arguments of the Prime Minister, which were raised, maybe brought more uncertainty than calming down. The first moments of this information really caused great nervousness, fear, and often hysteria, there were hysterical screams. And I've used it somewhere - I'm happy that these people, politicians, top politicians, don't have a case with a red button because I'm afraid they'd press it. I consider that to be quite a serious matter. And once again, it could really have happened that Russia would send two agents to destroy the willow weapons warehouse. Why? So I'm going to say to myself, she probably felt threatened by this warehouse. Why else would they destroy this warehouse? Just out of the woods to blow this place up? Why did they destroy or explode the weapons warehouse in Bulgaria? It also sounded like it wasn't the first explosion in that part of the time. Those are all the questions that stay in the air, but nobody really cared because it was banging elsewhere. Unfortunately, it blew up with us, and unfortunately, and I'm terribly sorry, two people died, perhaps seven years living in the suspicion that their negligence caused this tragedy and this explosion. And if since 2018, the secret services have known that they didn't do it, their surviving families have left it at ease because they're playing a news game. And just here, these family members of these two people deserved this information, and not as I read today that no one actually contacted them, no one talked to them, left them to die because of the negligence they caused. I also consider this to be a certain attitude of this society, and I am sorry. And again, I'm stressing that it's possible that the Rus really put the timers in there. But the information doesn't add up with Bulgaria. One warehouse explodes, that could have happened, yes, the two workers who died there found something they shouldn't have found, and it blew up. And that second warehouse, four months later in December, that was exactly what was supposed to happen in that warehouse. Isn't that right? Well, that wouldn't fit with the export of the weapons and other things, because if you have a warehouse with dozens of boxes, cartons, containers of weapons, it's better to put one detonator in there than to rely on the fact that, as it's being transported somewhere, it's going to decompose into X trucks and the destruction effect of this sabotage done by a Russian secret service specialist would be a tenth, maybe a hundredth of what could have happened and happened in Vrbetice. It also doesn't exactly match the campaign that goes towards the purpose. But again, I don't doubt they could have done it. I'm not really questioning this, but those are the questions that are in the public space, and no one answered them after seven years. I expected that the Secret Service, the head of the BIS Secret Service, would not tell us the names, the specific degrees, the rank of the party involved, but at least these questions will be answered, because the black arms trade, and that suspicion is also there, is one of the worst that could affect the democratic country, that it would be suspected of being illegally against international customs, and I don't know what to call it, exporting weapons to war conflicts and supporting the killing there. They should have told us, at least this: we found out that Russian agents dumped the warehouse in Vrbetice because they were afraid the weapons would end up on the battlefield where Russian soldiers could die. That's why they did it. I say, yes, evil Russia. But did it happen? I didn't hear that. And if that really happened, those guns were supposed to end up on this battlefield somewhere, was it a battlefield under international sanctions that they weren't allowed to deliver weapons there? If so, what's the accomplice? Is there an accomplice? Were the guns really stored freely, and two agents came out of the pool and blew it up? Or were they supposed to kill somewhere else, but we wouldn't care anymore, in Africa, to die there, to be killed there, we don't care? And that they use Czech explosives, Czech machines? Business is the main thing. Here is the question of how private companies exporting these goods are controlled, and I'm sure they have the license, and I'm not afraid they don't. But how are the middlemen controlled? How are the deliveries of parts and divided things controlled? Those are all the questions that come out, and I don't get answers. That is why I think it is time to make a resolution. Yes, the House has a position to take, and I am now putting the counter-proposal against Bartošek's resolution, which he has put in our desks, and I would like to read the motion for a resolution that I would like to vote against as a counter-proposal for his proposal. Let me quote: "The Chamber of Deputies fundamentally rejects any acts of violence of foreign intelligence in the territory of the Czech Republic or other states without distinction. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic fundamentally rejects any activities of foreign intelligence services in the Czech Republic and demands the harsh punishment of the culprits in the ammunition warehouse, whether they are citizens of the Czech Republic, citizens of the Russian Federation or other states of the world. After seven years, we demand immediate compensation from the government for the citizens of Vrbětic and subsequent recovery of the blame. After seven years, we require the publication of information on the target country of identification of weapons and ammunition from exploded warehouses, clarification of information denying official data and facts from the Imex Group, s. r. o., and Bulgarian arms dealer. After seven years, we demand an investigation into the owners of weapons and ammunition and its business partners, whether international law and embargoes are violated in the Czech Republic to supply weapons to areas of war conflict. We request to contact the Government of the Russian Federation in order to clarify the circumstances related to the reasonable suspicion of the participation of the Russian Federation's secret services in the explosion in Vrbetice." So much motion for a resolution as counter-proposal against Bartošek's proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u17	I will now look around the hall to see if anyone else is reporting to the general debate. No, no one's coming forward, so in that case, I'm ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? You are interested in the final word, so the rapporteur of the Member Vojtěch Pikal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u18	Thank you. Just from the position of rapporteur: There have been several proposals, some I already have in writing, some I have not yet. I would ask everyone to deliver their written proposals both to me and to all the other clubs, so that there is no problem during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u19	We will therefore now proceed to the debate in detail. I have various applications here, so the chairman of STAN Vít Rakušan with priority rights, will prepare Lubomír Volný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u20	Thank you, Mr President, hello. Once again, I would like to sign up for the motion for a resolution, which I submit on behalf of the Mayors and the Pirate Party, which I presented in detail in the general debate. Recapitulating: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ask for solidarity and coordinated action by EU and NATO states to request a call for an EU summit to reduce the number of Russian diplomats to the level of diplomats of the Czech Republic in Russia. It states that the compensation granted to the survivors, the owners, the municipalities concerned and their citizens, whether compensation for the real, lost profit or satisfaction of the explosions, was still quite insufficient due mainly to the unidentified culprit. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide synergies in the recovery of adequate compensation against the responsible persons and, where appropriate, the responsible state. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure full pyrotechnic research and security of the affected territory, in view of the deaths of two citizens of the Czech Republic, that the Czech Republic proceed under Article 33 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, after examining the matter, to notify the European Court of Human Rights of the facts of possible breach of the Convention by the High Contracting Party, the Russian Federation. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to explain in writing how it is possible that dangerous ammunition has been stored in warehouses in close proximity to several municipalities, which has put the lives of citizens and adjacent communities at risk." The resolution is at the disposal of the rapporteur in writing, and I can also pass it on to the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u21	It's enough for the rapporteur, but thank you for the offer. Now, then, on the point of fact, Mr Vojtěch Pikal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u22	Thank you. Only to this proposal - he is not numbered, the individual points. Most of these proposals are then to vote in part, so I would just say that the individual parts at the beginning would then be Roman numbers and then letters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u23	Mr Lubomír Volný will now appear and Mr Jan Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u24	I would just like to sign up for the motion for a resolution that I have read in the general debate, and I will now hand it over to the rapporteur. I think that'll do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u25	Mr Jan Bartošek will now appear and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. [[This is Mrs Langshadl.]] So Jan Bartošek's MP? [[Yes.]] You're getting off. All right. You're the coalition, right? So... [[Rectangular disinfection in progress.]] All right, it's sprayed. So, MP Jan Bartošek... Excuse me, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. Sorry, I was a little inertial.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u26	Thank you for the floor. I would only like to sign up for the coalition of SPOLU to those proposals that my colleague Jan Bartošek has made here in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u27	And now, Mr Leo Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'm just a little bit of a makeover. Firstly, at the request of the rapporteur, I wrote there first, secondly, thirdly, to do so. And now I'm going to read the resolution because there's a little formula that I've been alerted to: "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects any acts of violence by foreign intelligence services on the territory of other countries without distinction as a method of undignified policy of the 21st century. II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic fundamentally rejects any activities of foreign intelligence services in the Czech Republic, demands examination and also punishment of the culprits of the explosion in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice in 2014, whether they are citizens of the Czech Republic or citizens of the Russian Federation or other states. III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to compensate the disabled citizens of Vrbětic and subsequently to recover the damage caused by the guilty. IV. The Chamber of Deputies insists on publishing information on the target country of identification of weapons and ammunition from exploded warehouses. At the same time, it requests clarification of information contradictory from the official data provided by the Imex Group, s. r. o., Bulgarian arms dealer. V. Despite a long period of time from events, we have requested the examination of licenses for the owner of weapons and ammunition and its business partners, both from the perspective of Czech law and from the point of view of international legal obligations of the Czech Republic and the embargo on the supply of weapons to the field of war conflicts. VI. The Chamber of Deputies requests that negotiations be opened with the Government of the Russian Federation in order to clarify the circumstances related to the reasonable suspicion of the participation of the Russian Federation's secret services in the explosion in Vrbetice.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u29	Now the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Vlastimil Válek has signed up, so please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Last application so far. Yes, so is the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u30	I'm so sorry. Before the final vote, five minutes off, those motions for resolutions are too much. We just need a quick consult. Five minutes, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u31	No, but before the final vote, you said? [[Yes.]] So we are still going, because some Members have already gathered from their seats, so that it is not premature. So please, Minister Zaorálek in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u32	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I suppose I can perform at any time. [[Vice-President Okamura: You may.]] Okay, so now I'm not even speaking in a detailed debate, but I've had a fight with my friend Alzheimer's here to remember what was in 2014, which Mr Luzar provoked me to, and then I've come to a pretty firm view that in 2014, when I take Ukraine, I'm sure you won't find me anywhere to decide on an embargo on arms exports to Ukraine. There was no such thing at the time. So I am saying this because if I understood Mr Luzar correctly, he said there is no clear motive. But the motive, I think I can say, is that it's a public-source thing, the motive was that there was a Bulgarian arms dealer who had guns stored in that warehouse in Vrbetice, in those two warehouses, and the weapons were supposed to be taken, say, to Ukraine, which could be the motive, with the possibility that they could explode even there, which would be ideal, so that's why the time explosion. And as far as we're witnessing something like black arms exports to the battlefield, here was said to be arms exports to the battlefield where the arms embargo was, and I'm here to say that there was no embargo on exports to Ukraine at the time, because of course I was in Ukraine about seven times at the time, and of course I had to move around and take an interest in these things. So I'm not saying that the Czech Republic was supplying anything. In that, I think we've been quite very restrained. But since I had to deal with it, I remember well that there was no embargo!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u33	On a point of fact... So no more applications here... Wait a minute. [[Member Pikal reporting.]] You'll have your final word. Do you want it now? [[No.]] So I have no one to discuss in detail, so I am ending the debate in detail, and the rapporteur, Mr Vojtěch Pikal, wants the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u34	Thank you. There's a lot of suggestions. So before we go to the meeting, I would give everyone a chance to consider whether they will be satisfied with the individual proposals to vote en bloc or whether they want them to take points. I see that the majority will probably want to take points, so the vote will then be long, but I will try to prepare the procedure accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u35	So I'm gonna put out a break at Top 09's request for five minutes and meet you at 8:43. [[Member Bartošek reporting.]] I called a break, but please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u36	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. After the agreement, we've gone over the individual proposals, there won't be a need for a break, which means we're canceling it, and we can proceed directly to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u37	Okay. So let's vote. So, rapporteur, if you would like to take us through this vote. So, rapporteur, take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u38	It might be a little more complicated, but I'm gonna try to design a procedure so everyone's happy. We will therefore vote on individual resolutions on a case-by-case basis. I will always read the proposal for a given point and leave it to the vote, and I would proceed roughly in the order in which it was read, but in such a way as to respect any wishes that have been made here. So it would be the first to be Mr Rakušan's proposal for the STAN Club and for the Pirates Club, then Mr Luzar's proposal for the KSČM Club, then Mr Bartošek's proposal or Mrs Langšádlová's proposal, as anyone would like, probably for the clubs forming the coalition of SPOLU, that is, for the ODS Club, KDU-ČSL and TOP 09, and finally the proposal of Mr Volný Member. I have noted the request that everything be put to the vote on points, so I would approach it that way. But if anyone has anything on the procedure, of course we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u39	So KDU-ČSL club chairman Jan Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u40	Thank you. I'm counter-proposaling procedure. I will ask that my proposal be voted first, because as I perceive the atmosphere in the Chamber of Deputies, there is a great likelihood that we could approve it. So I would like to ask that this proposal be voted first, even given the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u41	Mr rapporteur, so let us be familiar with the order of vote once again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u42	I don't really have a problem with that. So first, we will vote on the counterproposed procedure. However, I am not at this point in time able to fully identify which individual resolutions are excluded with any other resolutions, so we will simply let everyone vote if someone does not want to deal with this in any way in detail.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u43	Yeah, well, do we all understand the draft procedure we're going to vote on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u44	Yes, I'll do it again. First of all, the counterproposal of the procedure, which would be in order: Rakušan, Bartošek, Luzar, Volný. That's counterproposal. [[Member Bartošek objects off the microphone.]] So the counterproposal is: Bartošek, Rakušan, Luzar, Volný. Yes. The original proposal is: Rakušan, Luzar, Bartošek, Volný. So first, counter-proposal procedure, please. [[- Okay.]] That means: Bartošek, Rakušan, Luzar, Volný. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u45	Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? [[The noise in the Chamber persists.]] Voting order number 170, 105 Members registered, for 66, against none. The draft procedure has been accepted. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u46	Thank you. So now I'm going to load the individual designs. First, then, we begin with Mr Bartošek's proposals. Point I reads: "First, the Chamber of Deputies condemns..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u47	So checkout. I'll check you all out, sign up with your voting cards again. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u48	Thank you. Once again: "The Chamber of Deputies I condemns the terrorist attacks of special forces of Russian military intelligence organized in the Czech Republic leading to the violent death of Czech citizens, the widespread destruction of private property and public values, including the devastation of the surrounding ammunition warehouses, which it considers unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, international law and act of hostility and aggression."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u49	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 171, registered by 102 Members, for 78, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u50	Thank you. Second point: "The Chamber of Deputies II. Says thanks to the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Security Information Service, the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Military Intelligence, the Police of the Czech Republic and the Supreme Attorney General and all those involved in identifying the activities of GRU members in the territory of the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u51	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Voting order number 172, 103 Members signed in for 83 against 2. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u52	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies III. agrees with the expulsion of 18 diplomats from the Russian Federation.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u53	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 173, registered by 102 Members, for 80, against 7. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u54	Thank you. And now we're moving on to the fourth part, which consists of individual sub-items, so I'll always read it after those sub-items: "Deputy Chamber of Deputies IV. Calls on the Government 1 to fundamentally reject this unacceptable interference of the Russian Federation with the sovereignty of the Czech Republic by expressing this protest to the competent Russian government and taking all measures to reduce the risk of carrying out further operations of Russian special forces and ensuring the protection of our country's national security."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u55	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 174, registered by 102 Members, for 78, against 3. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u56	Thank you. Point IV.2: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to respond adequately to the actions of the Russian Federation, to re-establish relations with the Russian Federation and to fundamentally limit the number of representations at the Embassy of the Russian Federation according to the principle of reciprocity."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u57	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 175, registered by 102 Members, for 81, against 5. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u58	Thank you. Point IV.3: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government not to allow any actors from the Russian Federation to enter into the planned construction of a nuclear power plant or other elements of the critical infrastructure of the Czech Republic, even by any consortium or structural trading allies.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u59	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 176, 101 Members registered, for 76, against 10. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u60	Thank you. Point IV.4: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government, in cooperation with allies in the EU and NATO, to impose coordinated economic sanctions against the Russian Federation and other non-state actors who act against the interests and sovereignty of the Czech Republic. This is a clear signal that the Czech Republic will actively act against hostile efforts to destabilize or undermine the democratic values on which our Republic stands. These sanctions will be imposed against all legal and natural persons supporting the activities of Russian intelligence services in our territory, including cyberspace."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u61	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 177, registered 100 Members, for 42, versus 3. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u62	Thank you. Point IV.5, i.e.: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to call upon the Russian Federation to assume responsibility for the attack on the warehouse in Vrbetice and, at the same time, to require financial compensation and compensation for victims, material schools and liquidation work after the attack.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u63	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 178, registered by 101 Members, for 81, against 3. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u64	Thank you. Item IV.6: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to request, without undue delay, a joint public statement of support from NATO to the Czech Republic at the meeting of the North Atlantic Council and to call for coordinated action in response to the discovery that the Russian Federation is responsible for the explosions in Vrbetice. The Czech Republic should call on allies in particular for a coordinated statement by Russian diplomats and rapporteurs, as was the case in 2018 after the attempted murder of Sergej Skripal."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u65	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 179, registered by 102 Members, for 81, against 7. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u66	Thank you. Last, IV.7: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to create an initiative within NATO that will actively address the reduction of the influence of the Russian Federation within NATO and EU member states and intensify the fight against misinformation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u67	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 180, registered is 102 Members, for 76, against 3. The motion was accepted. Mr. králíček, please take a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u68	Mr President, I would just like to say that I voted in favour of voting 171, and I am late for high school. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u69	Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u70	Thank you. This moves us to the second set of proposals, i.e. Mr Rakušan's proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies I calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, a) to ask for solidarity and coordinated action by the EU and NATO states'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u71	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 181, there are 101 Members, for 25, against 6. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u72	Thank you. Further: "The Chamber of Deputies I calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, (b) to request a call for an EU summit."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u73	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 182, there are 101 Members, for 18, against 8. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u74	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies I calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, (c) to reduce the number of Russian diplomats to the level of diplomats of the Czech Republic in Russia."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u75	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 183, there are 101 Members, for 27, against 7. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u76	Thank you. Another proposal: "The Chamber of Deputies II. Notes that the compensation granted to the survivors, owners, the municipalities concerned and their citizens, whether compensation for the actual, loss of profit or satisfaction for the explosions, was still quite insufficient, in particular because of the unidentified culprit."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u77	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 184, registered is 100 Members, for 34, against 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u78	Thank you. "III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to provide assistance in the recovery of adequate compensation against the responsible persons or the responsible state."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u79	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 185, 102 Members registered, for 57, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u80	Thank you. Next item: "The Chamber of Deputies IV. Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic (a) to ensure full pyrotechnic survey and security of the affected territory.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u81	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 186, registered is 102 Members, for 45, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u82	Thank you. Another point: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic, in view of the deaths of two citizens of the Czech Republic, to proceed under Article 33 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms, i.e. after examining the case, to notify the European Court of Human Rights the fact of a possible violation of the Convention by the High Contracting Party, the Russian Federation."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u83	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 187, there are 101 Members, for 23, against 2. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u84	Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies V. requests written explanations from the Government of the Czech Republic as to how it is possible that dangerous ammunition has been stored in warehouses close to several municipalities, which has put the lives of the citizens of adjacent municipalities at risk."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u85	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 188, registered is 101 Members, for 30 against 2. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u86	Thank you. We are now coming to the third set, that is, Mr Luzar: "I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic rejects any acts of violence by foreign intelligence services on the territory of other countries without distinction as a method of undignified policy 21. "of the century."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u87	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 189, registered as 100 Members, for 24, against 2. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u88	"II. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic fundamentally rejects any activities of foreign intelligence services in the Czech Republic, demands examination and also punishment of the culprits of the explosion in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice in 2014, whether they are citizens of the Czech Republic or citizens of the Russian Federation or other states."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u89	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 190, there are 101 Members, for 31, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u90	Thank you. "III. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to compensate the disabled citizens of Vrbětic and subsequently to recover the damage caused by the guilty."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u91	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 191, 101 Members registered, for 38, against none. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u92	Thank you. "IV. The Chamber of Deputies insists on publishing information on the target country of identification of weapons and ammunition from exploded warehouses. At the same time, it requests clarification of information contradictory from the official sources given by Imex Group, s. r. o. and Bulgarian arms dealer.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u93	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 192, 99 Members registered, for 19, versus 2. The motion was denied. Please. Before I give you my word, the day ends at 21:00, but on the proposal of at least one fifth of all Members, or two Members' Clubs, the House may decide otherwise. I want to ask how much you have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u94	One more whole and--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u95	Okay. So there's two clubs that they're proposing to continue? Which ones are, say it on the microphone. Say it on the microphone, please, someone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u96	Some kind of club rep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u97	'Cause I don't want to get in a situation here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u98	For the Social Democracy Club, we propose to continue the discussion. At the same time, apart from the Social Democracy Club, the club of the ANO movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u99	Okay. If that's how it is, we'll continue if no one objects. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u100	I think we need to vote on extending the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u101	I'm declaring it. We've got exactly 21 hours to make the announcement. Close, a few seconds. Who's in? [[Vice-President Pikal: We are voting to extend the duration of the negotiations after 21.00 until this item has been discussed.]] Who's against it? Voting number 193, 101 Members registered, for 101, against none. The motion was accepted. I think we can keep going. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u102	Thank you. Again to Mr Luzar's resolution, point V: "Over a long time since the event we have requested the examination of the licenses of the owner of arms and ammunition and of its business partners, both from the point of view of the Czech rule of law and from the point of view of the international legal obligations of the Czech Republic and the embargo on the supply of weapons to the areas of war conflicts."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u103	Mr Radek Koten to vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u104	I would like to mention on the microphone: I do not question the vote, but I voted in the vote 191 and 192 in favour, but unfortunately I was delayed at the junk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u105	So are you questioning or not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u106	No, I'm not questioning it, but I want it to be said that I voted in favour, but I had a delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u107	Okay, you were in favour of both votes, but he was delayed at the high school. Okay. You do not question the vote. Mr rapporteur, please, we will continue. I just interrupted it when you explained the point. I don't know if we all remember what we're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u108	One more time, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u109	No, no, everybody knows. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 194, 101 Members registered, for 22, versus 3. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u110	Thank you. VI., last item from Mr Luzar's proposal: 'The Chamber of Deputies requests the opening of negotiations with the Government of the Russian Federation in order to clarify the circumstances related to the reasonable suspicion of the participation of the Russian Federation's secret services in the explosion in Vrbetice'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u111	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 195, registered by 101 Members, for 29, versus 1. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u112	Thank you. Now Mr Volný's proposals: "The Chamber of Deputies I condemns the terrorist attacks organised by the CIA on the territory of the Czech Republic leading to the violent death of Czech citizens, the widespread destruction of private property and public values, including the devastation of the surrounding ammunition warehouses, which it considers unacceptable violation of the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, international law and act of hostility and aggression."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u113	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 196, 99 Members signed in, for 3, against 48. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u114	Thank you. Point II: "Calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to reject this unacceptable interference with the sovereignty of the Czech Republic, to express this protest to the competent US government and to take all measures to reduce the risk of carrying out further operations of US Special Forces and to ensure the protection of our country's national security."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u115	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 197, 101 Members signed in, for 2, against 57. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u116	Thank you. "III. It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to quantify immediately the damage caused by the explosion in the ammunition warehouse in Vrbětice and to recover their reimbursement from the US government."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u117	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 198, 101 Members signed in, for 3, against 66. The motion was denied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u118	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just to vote 168 (?), that was the last time, I was against it, and I'm on drugs, and I'm held up. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u119	So Mr Holomčík does not question and now Mr Kupka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u120	I do not question the vote either, but I voted against it, and I have a pro on high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u121	Okay. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u122	Thank you. Let's keep going. "IV. He strongly demands an apology from the US government for the involvement of US state authorities in the destruction of ammunition warehouses in Vrbětice, financial compensation for families of killed Czech citizens and compensation for losses on property and public values."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u123	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 199, 99 Members signed in, for 2, against 56. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u124	Point V: "It calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to reduce the number of U.S. diplomats in the Czech Republic by 20 and to put an end to the illegal residence of the US covered as a cultural centre."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u125	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 200, 100 Members registered, for 2, against 62. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u126	Point VI: "Recommends full disclosure of the results of investigations and detection of the participation of US Special Forces by relevant partners of the European Union and NATO'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u127	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 201, 100 Members registered, for 2, against 60. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u128	Thank you. Point VII: "According to the warning to the Director of the Security Information Services, podlukovník . Michal Koudelka, Director of the National Headquarters against Organized Crime, podlukovník. JUDr. Jiří Mazánek, their subordinates, other intelligence services of the Czech Republic and their foreign partners and other law enforcement authorities involved in the Russian-phobic campaign."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u129	Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 202, 100 Members registered, for 2, against 71. The motion was denied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u130	Thank you. I think all the proposals have been voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u131	So I'm ending this point with information about the events in Vrbětice. I'm interrupting the 98th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until tomorrow, that's until Wednesday. pardon me, is Bartošek's chairman still at the KDU-ČSL Club?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u132	Colleagues, colleagues, I won't keep you long, but I want to thank you all. The resolution was voted across the parliamentary clubs and the parliamentary parties and movements. I thank you for that, because we have sent a clear message that we are a proud country that will not tolerate anyone in our territory committing terrorist acts in any interest. We are a proud country and we will defend ourselves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-04-20-ps2017-098-05-005-530.u133	I'm interrupting the 98th meeting by tomorrow, that's until Wednesday, April 21st. The 98th meeting will continue 10 minutes after the end or interruption of the 99th meeting, but no later than 14.30 hours. Have a good evening, good night.
