ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u1	39. Proposal for the election of a member of the Supreme Audit Office President Jakub Michálek has the right of priority, so I will give him the floor before I give the floor to the President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u2	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to use my priority right to open one question that I consider extremely important for all of us. It's an up-to-date topic, and it's a scandal with the abuse of money in health care for an election campaign. I think it is very good that the state wants to do cancer prevention, that is absolutely appropriate, but it is essential that good thoughts are not abused. In this case, according to information from the media and the way I discussed it with the Minister, the General Health Insurance Corporation has decided to place the political promotion of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš on one of the two front pages in the back of the cancer prevention brochure as part of the 15 million CZK campaign. Mr ANO himself, who represents YES on the board of directors of the insurance company, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, said that this material would do more harm than help. So what happens? The board didn't approve. So what happens when people spread it out to those two million households? They will have a brochure that will look either like this, cancer prevention or this way, promoting Prime Minister Andrej Babiš. [[He's pointing.]] Three weeks before the election, two million households get a brochure like this. And if we take 50 percent of people are essentially allergic to the Prime Minister of Andrej Babiš, and now 50 percent of the cases fall out of this building photo, when we look at the fact that, according to scientific research, when a person sees a policy he doesn't like, he has stress hormones coming out, and when we look at the stress hormones being once... or the high level of stress is one of the causes of cancer, the fact that a person gets indignant when he realizes that these matters are being paid out of the money to go to health, so sending - and here I have to agree with Mr Vyzula - really sending out such brochures can only make people's stress worse, it can upset them before the elections. I think it is absolutely absurd to say that the Prime Minister is not a political figure. And this is another manifestation of the agrofertization of the Czech Republic that someone does not want to take advantage of cancer prevention for the political campaign. I would like to call on you: If you care about the health of citizens, please do not take advantage of the means in the Czech health care to prevent cancer on your own political agitation. And I would like to call on the Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch, who sits here with us to speak and promise to all citizens of the Czech Republic and this famous House that he will advocate that the brochure be depolitized, to find out who, against the will of the Board of Directors, has had this brochure sent out, to assume responsibility, and to promise us all here that not one crown of Czech health money, from public money, will be abused for three weeks and during the election campaign to promote any party. Thank you for your attention and thank you for the courage you will face.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u3	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u4	Thank you for the floor. At 12.30 our colleagues from our coalition had press on this issue. According to our information, it was strongly condemned. According to our information, a health committee is meeting at 13, and I think it should be addressed and made very clear. I would like to say hello from this place to the Office for the Supervision of the Financing of Political Parties. We show every facebook ad for 110 crowns. We have 8,000 sails of our volunteers on the fences, in the streets of all Czech cities, villages and villages and show 8,000 financial defaults. And here's the $15 million that belongs to the Yes movement's electoral account! So I'm hoping that this office will notice, and it'll add up when someone's already taking advantage of such a severe illness to their political promotion. But on the other hand, it's exactly in the spirit of the Yes movement's electoral slogan - I'm going to take somebody else's money until the body is torn apart.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u5	And now I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u6	Hello, thank you for your word. In accordance with the House's decision, I will now move on to the electoral point for which we have decided on this time, on behalf of the Election Commission. It is a proposal to elect a member of the Supreme Audit Office to fill one place which is currently vacant. It is true that Mr Jan Vedral's term of office ended on 20 August, in accordance with the law, that he reached the age of 65 and thus ended as a member of the Supreme Audit Office. In accordance with the above Law No 166/1993 President of the SAO Mr Miloslav Kala sent the House a new nomination, a new proposal, and the nomination is our fellow Member, Mr Roman Sklenák. This nomination was sent to the House on 24 August. The standard nomination letter and the CV of the Commission candidate were submitted to the club chairmen and to the members of the Commission. The Election Commission discussed it on 25 August in the form of per rollam and adopted Resolution 203, where it found the nomination in good order from a factual point of view, and adopted it. I will recall a steady custom that, in this case, because this is one proposal of one name, which the House de facto either confirms or does not confirm, the Commission proposes a secret form, one-wheeled, when it decides immediately or not in one vote, so it does not proceed to any second round. In accordance with the law, the newly elected member, if elected by the House, takes up his duties by making a pledge in the hands of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And now, Mr President, first of all, I ask you to open the debate, and after the debate, I ask us to vote on whether the House agrees to hold a secret unicycle election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u7	I'm opening the debate. President Michálek is reporting for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will continue with the priority right of what I started, that the Minister is sitting here, writing something on his cell phone, but we have now described here how money is being used in health care, which is to be treated, and you should get out here and actually assure us that none of the crowns of that medical money will be used for electoral political agitation. I think it is totally unacceptable for us to act like in that one joke where a train stops in Siberia in the Soviet Union, and political officials are debating what they're going to do next, and eventually the idea of closing curtains and pretending everything works out and the train goes on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u9	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? The Minister is reporting to the debate, and the Minister is reporting with priority rights, so that this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u10	Thank you for the floor, so we can get this election over with. I must say, I don't understand the rhetoric at all. The brochure - I don't think you've even seen it, Mr. Chairman, or have you read it? Have you seen her completely? [[Member Michálek is pointing towards the riverbed.]] Well, you have one picture, yes, you have one picture, but there are about 52 pages and there are primarily experts from Czech health care in various indications of oncological diseases, 52 pages of professional information. The brochure was prepared sometime since the autumn of last year, which I was not yet a minister when it got together, it was communicated with health insurance companies, a few months ago we signed a memorandum with health insurance companies as the Ministry of Health that we wanted to support general prevention in oncology after the covid, when we know that we significantly decreased our complains with screening programs, with invitations to screening programs, really the numbers of people who go to screening fell by about 10 to 15 percent, and we all perceive that really, especially oncology, they were affected by the covid period, and we wanted - and believe it or not - to support oncological prevention. And it's not a thing that was created 14 days ago, it's been working on for months. And I think that primarily the brochure actually - and if you look at its contents - is expert. And the fact that the Health Minister, who doesn't mind all the time, signs letters to insured people who are invited to screening programs, that's just the standard, whatever the other minister is, I don't know what's wrong with it. Yes, there's the Prime Minister on the last page of the brochure, he's there as the author, when he actually initiated the brochure, there's the Office of the Government as the institution involved, that's all. [[Laughter and applause from some Members.]] And again, it's a thing that's been preparing for a year. The brochure was being prepared for a year, and it is not a pre-election brochure, as you speak. [[Rush in the hall.]] What you're talking about is just nonsense. I can talk to the health insurance companies, of course, when the brochure is to be published, when it is to be released. But I think that, in principle, to contradict the content that has 52 pages and there are experts, there's expert information, there's a call for prevention of oncological diseases, there's just pure politics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, at this point I am asking for an agreement to be reached between Members' Club Chairs, as we will proceed, or I must interrupt the Chamber of Deputies at 13:00, because we have a committee meeting scheduled, and because we have a fixed point at 14:30. So, I beg the agreement of the presidents of the MPs, otherwise I must proceed in accordance with our practice. President Michálek is next, and President Zbyněk Stanjura also reports with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u12	Thank you for the floor. Really, very briefly. Mr. Secretary, there's no conflict with the contents of this brochure. All we disagree is that it is being used for political promotion and three weeks before the election. That's what we blame you for. And if you prepared this year in advance, and if it was for the Prime Minister's official order, it would be worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u13	Chairman Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u14	I don't have a chance to talk to the other presidents. I suggest that we keep this debate, which is undoubtedly interesting, and then I'll go a little bit further, at 14.30. I suggest you complete the election. I think if we only have 15 minutes to make that choice, that's enough for us, and at 2:30, we who have priority rights can continue the debate. I certainly have that interest. I must say, Minister Vojtěch, I can't forgive myself, he's really learned his lesson, he's not decent anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u15	Thank you. Does anyone else report to the debate on this point? I'm not reporting, I'm done with the debate. Mr President of the Election Commission, we can finish this item or vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u16	Let us agree, therefore, that, in line with what our colleagues have just said, we will end the debate that was on this electoral point. But before making the election, Mr President, please decide by voting on the proposal for a secret choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u17	Yes, thank you. I called in Members and Members who were not in the hall. We're ready for the vote. We are voting on a proposal for a secret choice. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 153 Members registered, for 91, against 11. We have accepted the motion. We'll make a secret choice. Mr President, I ask for more information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u18	As usual, I will announce the time of the election. I'll give her 10 minutes, so the polling room will be open by 13.10. And then at 2:30 p.m. before the afternoon program started, I would quickly read the result of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u19	Thank you. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, I wanted to invite you to the photo exhibition SOS Terezín, let's save Terezín, which takes place in my premises. It's been there all day. It will be until the end of the day. Mr. Mayor Terezín is also present at the moment. Who would be interested in seeing the condition of the Terezín Fortress buildings, so I invite you there, come and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u21	I'm just reminding you that there will be a meeting of the Organizing Committee. I think we could start him at 13 o'clock for six minutes. And I'm interrupting a meeting to conduct a secret election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u22	We have a 14.30, I will launch the afternoon agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. Before I open a new point, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš expressed his interest in a performance with priority rights. Prime Minister, I will give you my word and then we will proceed to the items on the agenda, announce the outcome of the election to the Supreme Audit Office, and then we will have a point 13, an impact on the environment. Prime Minister Andrej Babiš has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u23	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I have heard that the opposition has a major problem with the cancer prevention prospectus and that I should allegedly abuse public money, which, of course, is a lie. The Cyprus Company The News List immediately came up with this. If anyone, especially the pirát, has a problem... Mr. Michálek isn't here yet. If anyone's taking advantage of anything, they're obviously pirát. Here's a picture of the kit where Mr. Pirate got stuck, and then here's the brochure. Well, it looks like Františkův Lázně belongs only to pirát, but it doesn't matter. And I'm so glad you have a problem with that, because I'm gonna talk about the most important project that I've come up with since I've been Prime Minister, and it's cancer prevention. On April 16, 2020, Mr. Žaloudík was in the Senate, whom I respect terribly, and during the first coalition government, I told Sobotek: Make him a Minister of Health, but he is great, on April 16, 2020, Mr. Žaloudík in the Senate said yes, covid is here, but in our country, every 20 minutes someone dies of cancer. And there's no vaccine against that. cancer will not only be for Europe, but for all of us in 2035 the biggest cause of our population's deaths. It's cardiovascular disease today, I'm afraid. 48,000 people die of cardiovascular disease each year and 27,000 die of cancer. In 2035 according to forecasts, it will be the other way around. And then when I heard that speech, I got interested. I even had a conflict of interest, imagine. We seniors know what PSA is. If you have PSA 10.5, you don't sleep for a month and you're afraid you have prostate cancer. That, by the way, is the most common cancer in men and can be treated. And then you find out what a CT scan is, what a biopsy is, and you find out that our best oncological hospital is Yellow in Brno. Best hospital, best director. The only cancer hospital in the Czech Republic where Boston was inspired. And then I talked to Professor Hajdúch about it, and he said, "Oh, yeah, let's do what Joe Biden did in 2016, moonshot. Unfortunately, his son died of brain cancer. And I got interested. I've organized a group of our best oncologists. The best oncologists, most of them in the brochure. That's the prospectus, and it's part of the national cancer fight. I think it's important that our people have the best treatment to have the best prevention, even for pancreatic cancer, when, for example, my foundation bought a $3 million machine at a cancer hospital and it was found that not everyone who went there was properly treated. I deal with cancer and imagine that I invented this brochure. Scandal! I invented it, and I spent hours on it. And it's a great brochure. Yes, this is Adam Vojtěch, our Minister of Health. He's not running anywhere. And then you have all of our best oncologists and individual cancers, the contents, you have statistics that threaten you the most. It's divided, women 20 to 29 years and so on. A unique fantastic brochure that's never been here before. Never. But I knew exactly what would happen. That's what you're saying. You guys never came up with anything, and now you're saying it's some kind of campaign. Well, it's not a campaign. I am - so far - Prime Minister and I took the liberty, because I knew on the last page to write a text that I will now read to you: "Dear fellow citizens, in the Czech Republic one person dies every 20 minutes from cancer. Every day 200 people get cancer. Two thirds of people save our order, but not a third. More than 500,000 of our fellow citizens live with or have been treated with cancer in the past. Although the burden of the Czech population with malignant tumors is high and the number of cancers is growing in the long term, more and more patients manage to heal from cancer. By the way, it's 100 percent at the breast and prostate when it's found out in time. In this we are among the best of the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This is certainly due to the fact that the Czech Republic has great doctors, we are constantly investing in modern devices for diagnosis and treatment of cancer. In the availability of fully-paid modern anticancer medicines, we are among the best in Europe. That's what needs to be kept. We have a well-organized screening for cervical, colon and breast cancer. Children have the opportunity to be vaccinated against viruses that cause cervical cancer and some other cancers, such as head and neck. The results of these preventive programmes are already present. The number of new cases of cervical cancer and colon cancer has been reduced. We were the worst once. Today we are twenty in Europe, the worst is Hungary and Slovakia. And by the way, everyone who's above 50 is due for a colonoscopy. Before that, it was over 60. And that's why we're better. [[14.40 hours]] Another good news is that the lung cancer in men has decreased. What does Professor Hajdúch say? Well, I came by train, and at the taxi station, the guys say, "Yeah, lung cancer, that's no way to treat it." It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Even President Václav Havel had and cured him. And what does the brochure say? The Prospect says to let people know, they don't know. So the good news is that there's been a decrease in lung cancer in men, the cancer that we're most dying of - 7,000 people for lung cancer, unfortunately. I'm telling all the smokers. Do you remember years ago when we supported the anti-smoking law and taxed tobacco products significantly and thereby reduced their availability? It was the right decision. These are partial achievements, but it's certainly not enough for me. Experts predict that cancer will continue to increase in the coming years. Not only those that are typical of economically advanced countries and are related to the lifestyle, but also the result of an ageing population. And now the sentence is: by 2035 cancer will be the main cause of the deaths of the European Union's population. While treatment will be more effective, it will also be more complex, more demanding for new technologies and, of course, more expensive. You must know that we have prepared a large recovery plan for our Czech economy after the covid, and some of the money from it, but we are also directing other programmes into the fight against cancer, which is also an important socio-economic problem at high incidence. Top experts from various fields of medicine from all over the Czech Republic participated in drawing up these plans and recommendations. Everyone has excellent results in the fight against cancer. They have proven that cancer can be defeated, prevented, and treated. Our common strategy is to save thousands of lives a year and get the Czech Republic in statistics among the best countries in Europe. It is an honor for me to work with the top experts that we could have introduced to you, and thank you to all those who are helping us. And I appreciate you paying attention to this truly vital project. So I'm asking, is this some kind of campaign? Or are you actually saying that the Prime Minister isn't supposed to do anything? I'm the President of the Health Risks Board, I deal with health care. And what's interesting is that we've already distributed this prospectus on June 29, 2021. Here's a headline from some media, I don't even know what: the state wants to fight cancer more effectively, it has education, prevention and new professional workplaces to help. And that press conference that was in Royal Vinohrady in the hospital, that was this picture on the steed. [[He's showing the prospectus.]] We gave it to the press and nobody said anything. So now the opposition is coming back, and the way they were doing a scandal with my book, which, of course, we have included in the costs, the pirát are taking advantage of their positions, and you're accusing me? From what title? I figured it out, I worked it out, it's got a great design, and you're actually saying, now we're not giving it to people. Okay. So vote for it and say you don't want it at all or send it after the election. It's up to you. You didn't invent anything and you're just crashing. Always, always. By the way, an order from the Office of the Government: it's CZK 201,700 without VAT. Government office, that's where I am. Ordering a cancer prevention brochure It's about your life. Pamphlet concept strategy. Design of the signpost according to the target groups. Headline design. Graphic design of the envelope. Graphic design of the layout brochure. Text section search. The rate of the pages and the rate of the brochure. Project management. Authorization and valorization of doctor's texts. Language proofreading. Press data. We spent x-nights on this at the government office. For CZK 201,000! So one more time. I invented it. It's not a brochure where I went to take a picture. I invented it, I organized it. [[Laughter from the Pirates' bench.]] We did the work. You can laugh all you want, and that's right. And now you're coming up with some kind of campaign. I don't know where the campaign is, what? You don't think the Prime Minister should do anything. And about the cancer. I was talking about this when I introduced the National Recovery Plan with Ursula von der Leyen. And we can interpret here how our predecessors negotiated money for 2014, 2020. How much is there for health care? 8 billion, ridiculous 8 billion. The MPSV negotiated 73 billion. And about the national struggle, in our national fight against cancer, which includes science and research for billions, yes, which includes the Czech Cancer Institute! For Prague, for Pražák who hate me! [[In an elevated voice.]] And those who go to Yellow and wait six months to get the prevention! I don't like it either. How many of these institutions are there? He's the best in Texas, Norway. There are only six of them in Europe, because cancer treatment is not just proton and radiation and hello. It's somewhere else today. Today it's client studies, it's custom-made treatment. So also the project to make Praguers, and the Czech Cancer Institute to serve for everyone, for the whole Czech Republic, for all citizens. Because once again, there's no vaccination for cancer, and it's important. And that's why I spent so much time doing it, and when I showed Ursule von der Leyen, she was excited. And do you know how much I've negotiated for Czech health services? We negotiated 50 billion. 50 billion! Within REACT, 20 billion. Everyone got, even county hospitals got, all of them. And, of course, for a cancer-fighting project. So it's not like Babiš is campaigning. No, I invented it, it's my project, I put it through, I spent too much time on it, and I took the last page. I'm surprised the journalists were browsing it in June, browsing it until they didn't browse it. They could have screamed by then. That's been going on for a long time. And by the way, the different opinions that that Prague žluťák guy, he's gonna be a problem. Yes, that's the problem in different countries that oncologists aren't able to negotiate against specialists, which is why it didn't work out in Austria, which is why they don't have such a center. I think Czech citizens deserve the best care. We have the best doctors, and we need the best centers to do it. And this is definitely the project, if it's completed... but it looks like the opposition is upset. The opposition resents the fact that we care about the health of our citizens. And, of course, if the covid hadn't come, we could have been somewhere else. So I think it's outrageous that someone says I'm taking advantage of something. I'm not using anything. Everyone knows I work for free, I send it to singles. I've been paying for my own money for years, so you guys can't ever catch me on anything. I don't live in politics. You need to be there to get your income. I certainly didn't. So if, citizens, you don't get this prospectus where you can read everything, all kinds of cancers, by age, by gender, of course, you can thank the opposition here. [[shows]] And I, if you want to stop it, upset it, just say it on the microphone, and I don't have a problem with it. I'll tell Vojtěch it's a problem. Of course, it's nonsense. It serves people, and I'm glad to have the opportunity to talk about it here, and I'm gonna talk about it everywhere and all the time. And I'm going to show you guys, read this, this is important. Because if you're on time, if it's called late, don't underestimate prevention. One in three of us gets cancer and one in four dies of it. That's the brochure. [[14.50 hours]] And by the way, in addition to Prague Yellow, we are preparing a real prevention center at Brno Yellow. The center of prevention that when someone comes to a gynaecological ambulance to prevent and see, unfortunately, someone who shows that he has cancer, he doesn't even get to meet him, that the prevention must be organized in a completely different way. And we presented it. Brno Yellow is supposed to get 650 million, and thanks to Governor Grolich, who sold the property to this oncological hospital, it will be realized. I'm glad there are politicians who feel the need for people, and they don't just do politics. You're dealing with people now, against prevention. You're actually saying. We don't care if someone gets sick from cancer, that there's no prevention. You were performing with the covid anyway. So nothing new, and thank you so much for letting me talk for 21 minutes. Like hey, guys.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u24	I have two priority rights here. I also have a stack of apologies here, so I'll read them first, because I can see that the discussion will probably be longer. So from 14.30 to 15.30, Mr Ivan Bartoš apologizes for business reasons. Madam Secretary of Finance Alena Schillerová apologizes from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 a.m. for work reasons. Mr Špičák apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes today for the afternoon meeting for work reasons and tomorrow all day for work reasons. Furthermore, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček apologizes for his work outside the House from 16 o'clock to the end of the day and for the same reason he further apologizes for the meeting tomorrow for the whole day. Furthermore, Prime Minister Andrej Babiš apologizes today... no, cancellation of the note, sorry, cancellation of the note today from 2:30 p.m. Yes, the Prime Minister is already here. Mr Ondřej Polanský apologizes from 14.30 to 15.30 for work reasons. Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes today from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons and the last thing I have here is Mr Václav Votava, who apologizes from 15 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. Now priority rights. The first is the chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek and the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u25	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, I think that no one here has ever questioned that cancer prevention is an essential matter for Czech society. There was no discussion of that at all. You weren't here, I get it, but your Minister of Health was here, so I'm sure he could give you the information we discussed. I think it's great that you're interested in cancer. I kéž you were interested in covid in the same way. We could have come out much better in the last two years. The fact that you provided for the publication of the brochure is certainly a great achievement that after four years three weeks before the election, your cancer brochure is published. But we have a lot of experts in the Czech Republic who could publish a cancer prevention brochure without you. You didn't have to come as Prime Minister and secure the brochure. Don't tell me that it doesn't work in Czech health care so that the Ministry of Health doesn't deal with such matters. I mean, how many people are there, how many people are there in health insurance and so on. After all, you have set up a system so that it doesn't depend solely on you, on your invention, on the fact that before you come up with a brochure, but for all ministers to act proactively on these matters, the functional state should work. Your performance, I believe, is trying so hard to break people up, to turn people against each other. Pirates are campaigning here. No, we're really not happy to have to do this here. But the core of what we're getting off to is that you had to print your own photo three weeks before the election on the brochure you're sending out for money from Czech health care to two million households. And that's just not fair, that's not fair. And it's perfectly right and completely moral that people have called it into question, that it's being criticized by the media. Do you think it wouldn't be possible to publish the brochure without political promotion? That it would not be convincing for citizens if 50 per cent of Czech citizens get it upset when they see your picture there and, on the contrary, their level of stress increases? If you're doing this thing three weeks before the election, you really have to count on it to be considered political promotion. And the fact that you're saying that you're making up a brochure: that you invented a brochure is great, but that someone invents a campaign for money from the Ministry of Health and the Office of the Government doesn't mean that they have a moral right to promote themselves in this way before the elections for the money of the Czech health service. That's no argument at all. And when you say we didn't do anything, we have our own brochure. It's called Czech Inspiring. There you have a lot of things that we have done, which we have worked all over the Republic, in the regions, our councillors and so on. But it's for ours, for the money the party has. And it's costing us to publish this kind of promotion. And if it happens with us that some councilman is using the promotional material to make himself visible in front of the election, then we're gonna condemn it, we're gonna talk it out with this guy, and we're gonna try to do something about it, but not that we're still putting it as our priority, and we're trying to apologize. So you said you weren't dependent on the state like those sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies. All the Members sitting here are paid according to the law, but it is dramatic, dramatic, it is absolutely miniature compared to the sum of 20 billion you have received for all public contracts from the state, for all subsidies since you became Prime Minister of this country. So we're talking about a Member's salary versus 20 billion. An infinitely larger amount of money that you have earned by permanently exploiting your position from A to Z in all fields. And now you've just confirmed that you're still here defending your election promotion for money from Czech health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u26	I'll read one more apology. Mr Radek Koten apologizes from the afternoon part of today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Marian Jurečka, with priority right, will speak, so far the last application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, colleagues, I would like to make brief comments. I believe, Prime Minister, that no one here at all is questioning the great risks of endangering our society in terms of cancer and the difficult situation of cancer patients. Each of us may be concerned, even if we feel healthy today. Each of us, I think, have lived through it in our families. But I confess to you, I don't know how it affected the people here who are watching the events of the House. A politician who walks and says, "I, me, me, that's not a normal politician." When I read a lot of books and, for example, interviews that recorded Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk's political activities, he was not a politician who would walk and say: I, I, I, founded the Czechoslovak state here. He was a politician who served and spoke of those for whom he did so. He wasn't talking about himself. I didn't hear Angela Merkelová say, "Me, me, me." Ich, Ich, Ich, yes, right. [[Member for YES: Ich, Ich, Ich.]] I heard a politician always saying: I am doing the best I can for my citizens, for Germany, for Europe. You come in here and say, "I've come up with everything." You're talking about some kind of salary benefit here. Are you talking about your fellow Members being here for just selfish reasons? I put them in this role? [[15.00 hours]] Are you pointing out to the opposition that she didn't do anything? safra it, Prime Minister, this is Professor Svoboda, Professor Válek, the people who do it in practice, the lives that have been writing about it for years, they're producing these people. How can you afford to say here, point to the opposition to the right and say that: You didn't do anything? Like wake up. I don't think anybody has a problem with a pamphlet coming out, but why is there an article at the end and a picture of the Prime Minister? Why isn't there a strong story of someone who's been through cancer, who can give personal testimony, motivation, support? I'd understand. But you won't explain to anyone three weeks before the election when this brochure is supposed to come out that your article is there, that you're making it out to be on the subject of cancer, cancer patients, brutally unfair and in medicine an important unethical, unethical election theme. I'm asking you, Prime Minister, and I'm asking the head of the public health insurance company not to publish the brochure. Otherwise, I think it is a clear, strong incentive for the Office for the Management of Political Parties to deal with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u28	Now with priority rights, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. I must stand up for my fellow gastroenterologists, oncologists, gynecologists and all those who do quality, quality screening and excellent oncological care in complex cancer centres. Screening in the Czech Republic is one of the best. Mamographic screening, this is the storeroom of the Czech Republic. What the gastroenterological society, gastrointestinal oncology and other colleagues did in the screening of colorectal cancer is a huge piece of work. And this is happening in a network of complex cancer centers. It is a pity that, through the President, Mr Vyzula was not here because Professor Vyzula was standing at the birth of those complex cancer centres. And I am proud that I helped him, Professor Vorlíček and other colleagues with this as a scientific secretary for the radiological society at the time. Complex oncological centres in the Czech Republic are set very well and what the Ministry of Health should be worried about and what the government should be worried about is the completion of a complex oncology centre in the Karlovy Vary Region. This is a real problem for there to be a quality complex oncology center. What should be worried about, so that the centers in each region are standard-quality equipped not only with technology, but also with material equipment so that the care is comparable. I will certainly never want not as an MP, but as a doctor, patients from all over the Republic have to go to Prague or Brno for quality care, for screening, to prevent them from going to two cities in the Czech Republic. I understand that those who are not from Brno do not know that Masaryk's Cancer Institute is not a solitaire, but is part of the complex oncology center of Brno, which consists of three health establishments: Masaryk Cancer Institute, which provides part of the care, Brno University Hospital and St. Anne's University Hospital. These three health care establishments work very well and closely together, and it is good that this cooperation has been set up, it is good that patients receive the best care in the facility that is dedicated to them. None of these devices would be able to provide oncological care in its entirety, and this applies to the Masaryk Cancer Institute. I would very much like the government and the Ministry of Health to really focus on prevention, but if you look at information from the press - and this is not information from the tabloid press, but from the Mladá fronta Today - they recently opened an ambulance to comprehensive oncological care, where they do complex oncological examinations. And it's a good thing that other ambulances of complex oncological care are opening up. That's very good. What bothers me is that patients have to pay CZK 3,000 for this comprehensive examination. The same comprehensive inspections are carried out at the Masaryk Memorial Cancer Institute - yes, for remuneration, patients have to pay for them. This is what the Minister of Health should be worried about, this is what the Prime Minister should be worried about, not whether they're smiling or frowning on some brochures. Brochures have always been written by professional societies in this country when it came to medicine. And I hope nothing will change that in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u30	I have one more application for priority rights, and he is Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Pikal. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u31	Thank you, Mr President. It is rather a factual point, but we are not in the debate. There was one claim that there was no vaccine for cancer. So cancer, or malignant growth, is a set of many different diseases that have different causes, but there is a human papillomavirus to which... [[The Prime Minister outside the microphone notes that he said so.]] Well, I'm sorry if that was heard. However, it was said here that vaccination does not exist, in one case vaccination exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u32	I don't have any more... Jakub Michálek, chairman of the Pirates Club. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u33	Thank you for the floor. To conclude the discussion somehow, I think it would be solid for the Prime Minister to speak here, he said, therefore, that the brochure where the error occurred, where his photographs were shown, that it would be withdrawn. If he called the Director of General Health Insurance and this one... Sorry, I think there was a mic blackout. If it is that there was some pressure on the director of the VZP to publish it, although it was not agreed by the board of directors, by the Prime Minister, or I do not know how the director decided it or who decided it in the General Health Insurance Company, I think we should learn it as Members because the board of directors, where it was discussed, did not agree. And if this promotional electoral material has been released, you should pay for it from yours and arrange for the publication of a brochure that will be as apolitical as all the other brochures were, that is, to be published by professional companies. There is really no reason to send your photos to all Czech households that are with VZP for three months for money from Czech health care. So I would ask that a clear statement be made as to how this undesirable situation will be corrected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u34	The Prime Minister has asked for the floor, so Prime Minister Andrej Babiš will take the floor, so far the last application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u35	I would like to respond to Mr Válek, who knows absolutely nothing about it. [[Laughter, noise and banging into the right benches.]] You're a politician. You're, you're, who's your boss? [[He is still speaking on the right to Mr War.]] Who's your boss? Not Mr. Štěrba? Isn't that Principal Bohunice? You're his subordinate. Then what are you talking about? That's not an expert, is it? Isn't he an expert? What kind of nonsense are you talking about? Who said anything about jamming any centers? No one says, no one. And that's not your specialty. So tell the microphone what your specialty is. I know what you're wearing. And here's 20 experts who have a statement. And this is your boss. [[It shows the photo in the brochure.]] And you're saying he's not an expert? This is your director. So what are you talking about? These are the top experts who are here. Director of the Brno Cancer Institute, Mr. Svoboda. I can read to you here. [[He's still browsing in the brochure.]] Mr. Štěrba, specialist in pediatric oncology. Ask him. Ten years ago, I gave him a navigational device out of my money for $6 million. To pediatric oncology. I'm sure he'll remember. Have you ever been there? Mr. Arenberger, yes, the former minister, imagine he's in charge of the skin. Mr. Daneš. Professor Cibula, a renowned world expert. So you're saying they're the ones who released the brochure. They, they're part of the prospectus. Mr. Zachoval, a specialist in the treatment of urinary tract tumours. Mrs. Vašáková, lung tumors. He's not an expert? Deputy Minister of Health. Mr. Zavoral - yes, there lies President Zeman and Mr. Klaus, the best hospital in our country. Or are you questioning the Central Military Hospital? Mr. Suchánek - diagnostics, treatment of intestinal tumors. Mr. Urban - tumors of the digestive tract. Mr. Urbánek - liver cancer. Mr. Astl - cancer of head and neck tumors. Mr. Špička - cancer, haematooncological disease. Mr. Kleibl - tumors, genetics. Mr. Zikán - gynecological tumors and hereditary dispositions. Mrs Králíková - specialist in tobacco addiction treatment, Mr Mirovský, Mr Matoulek and others. [[15.10 hours]] So... I don't know if you've read the brochure. And why are you repeating lies here? Yes, we have great oncology centers, we have everywhere. And žluťák Man in Prague doesn't mean their destruction and vice versa. If you want to discuss this, you can have the debate with Mr. Cibula or with Hajdúch or with Liberty. I was just the one who was there and who just organized it. And that's it. Yeah, it's a shame somebody else didn't make it up. Well, Mr. Jurečka has a problem with me doing it. I understand, because, of course, none of you fell out, so there's a big problem with that. [[Several reactions in the right side of the hall. Stop lying!]] I don't have a problem with that. I'd like to hear Mr. Michálek and Mr. Jurečka here on the microphone to say that this brochure is never to be published. I don't have a problem with that, and I'm gonna call the Minister of Health, and don't let him release it, and we're done. [[Reaction in the right side of the hall.]] All right, I don't have a problem with that. Say it here on the microphone that you don't want this brochure, this great documentation, where people know what to do, doesn't get in the way of the citizens. [[shows the brochure]] Say it on the microphone here. And I don't have a problem with that. Right after your statement, I'm gonna call Minister Vojtěch, and he's gonna call the insurance company, and he's gonna say, "The opposition doesn't want this brochure getting to people." And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u36	Mr Vlastimil Válek, then the chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek, will now speak with priority. In the meantime, I'll read two apologies. Mr Petr Fiala apologises between 15.30 and 19.00 until the end of the day for working reasons, and Mr Patrik Nacher apologises today from 16 to 17.50 for working reasons. Prime Minister, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u37	Well, you should answer questions. I'd be happy to answer that. I have a radiology I. and II. Grades and I have a certificate from interventional radiology and oncology. I introduced some methods of intervention oncology here in the Czech Republic after returning from a relatively long internship from Japan, where I worked at the National Cancer Center and Aichi Cancer Center. And that makes me a member of the gastrointestinal oncology committee. Of course, Professor Zaoral is a top expert, hello, Mirek! [[He's waving to the camera.]] Professor Urbánek is my... Sorry, Professor Urbánek is already, I'm sorry, he's a big friend of mine. We wrote several publications together because I was involved in the creation of the Barcelona classification of hepatocellular carcinoma, although I am a radiologist. Perhaps it would be good to find out something about these people before you start criticizing them, anyone in this House. Then the criticism is much sharper. Among other things, I have also established the European Society of ECIO intervention oncology. And Prime Minister, I'll take the liberty of sending you to a book that's going to work for us now. It's the biggest gastroenterology textbook, and it includes oncology, which I have the honor of being co-authored. The authors are Professor Zaoral, Professor Ryska and other experts including me. I would be very happy if you would attend the ceremonial baptism of this book. I also invite you to other monographs, which should come out this year and next year and which relate, of course, to the diagnosis and treatment of oncological patients. If I am not in the hospital, if I am not in the Chamber of Deputies, believe me or don't believe me, I spend all my free time including part of the weekends in the hospital and perform intervention procedures in our cancer patients - thermoablation, microwave ablation, nanoknife treatment and other procedures. I really think I know a lot about oncology. The first comprehensive oncology centre, or the first indicative commission in the Czech Republic, I apologize, not a complex centre, but the first indicative committee, the oncological indicative committee, we founded together with Professor Žaloudík, now a senator for social democracy, with Professor Vyzula - if he were here, he will certainly confirm that, unfortunately, he is not here, now a member of the ANO movement, and other colleagues. To this day, along with Professor Kala, the chairman of the surgical company, and Dr. Ostřížková, oncologist, I lead this oncology committee. I try to set aside time every Monday, and when I don't, I prepare myself over Sunday and send the data. So much for what I'm doing, what I'm doing in medicine, and thank you very much for allowing me to say it here on the microphone. I'm very grateful for that. I will be happy to help patients with cancer at any time. Screening oncological diseases is of course an important thing and I do not question, on the contrary, I will be very happy to support the further development of complex cancer centres across the political spectrum, but so that care for patients is available throughout the Czech Republic and that they do not have to go to a center for care, because this is not necessary for screening. Screening isn't prevention, it's not a transplant. Two transplantation centres for the Czech Republic, in my opinion, are sufficient. The workplace that performs screening, and at the Scientific Council of your Minister for Health, before you started playing the recall game, so what he was originally a minister, and now he is again, so at the Scientific Council of the Minister, no, at the Board of Providers Chairman of the Board of Providers colleague Dvořák, a gynecologist, very well foreshadowed the idea of how the gynecological society will continue screening cervical cancer. That means if we're talking about medical stuff, professional stuff, I'm very happy to talk about it, but I don't think it has anything to do with the brochure. I'm not questioning the technical content of the brochure at all, I'm just saying, in my opinion, it's always better than when individuals write any such recommendations, so it's better for professional societies and their committees to be behind it. I've always done that, I always will, and it's my medical professional attitude. We don't all have to have the same one. That's probably where our attitude differs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u38	Now I have three priority rights here, so let me recap. The chairman of the Pirate Club Jakub Michálek will be the first to perform, then the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek will be prepared and then the chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u39	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister has informed us here about the contents of this brochure, of which 99 percent are not questioned at all. So once again, this discussion is not about the content of the brochure, but about its abuse to massively promote one particular candidate before the election. So why are you bringing in people who have absolutely nothing to do with the nature of this thing? I mean, that's completely cowardly. These people can't defend themselves here at all. These people aren't responsible for putting your picture in there. Those people didn't make any decisions. They were after a good cause. On the contrary, you did not tell us the essential thing: who decided to publish the brochure in this form and whether it was based on your instructions or your people's instructions. It would be perfectly fair of you to come here in front of us Members and come forward with the fact that you simply wanted to make yourself visible to the cancer prevention that you are interested in, and you were sorry to pay for it with your own money. So you asked if we wanted the brochure to be distributed in this form. I'm telling you my opinion. I don't want to make people a prospectus with an illegal promotion of one candidate until the election three weeks before the election. [[sent]] I want you to return the money you made the campaign for to the Czech health service and send people a political brochure without undue delay. That's what I think most people here want. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u40	Jan Bartošek, chairman of the KDU-ČSL Club, will now perform and prepare Marian Jurečka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u41	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, tell me that brochure couldn't have come out without your picture. Tell me if the brochure could have come out without you being photographed there and printed in it. It could have worked without you. [[He's turning to the Prime Minister. The one off the microphone answers, "Why would I do that if I invented it and organized it?"]] No one disputes the need for prevention. No one disputes the importance of people knowing how to protect themselves as far as their health is concerned. The Board of Directors refused to discuss this, the Governing Board refused to approve and deal with it at all. If I have the right information, it is even by expressing that the distribution of this brochure before the election is considered unethical. And they also said that if it went after the election, it could be. We are in a situation that for the first time in history the VZP becomes an active player of the electoral struggle. I personally see this as an abuse of VZP in this fight, and it all shows and speaks primarily of you, Prime Minister, because the whole behavior and method of abuse of this brochure and the fear of people about their health tells you that you are a real threat to the Czech Republic, you have a teflon conscience and a teflon morale. [[Rush among the members of the YES.]] You're a man who thinks only of himself and is ready to take advantage of anything within an unfair electoral struggle. It cost $15 million. The money was used in a completely different way for the health of the citizens of this country. And if you're breast-feeding here by inventing that it's yours, it's all about being exported on the back of a number of experts you've used for your own campaign promotion. It clearly shows that you've never played fair and you're not playing fair. And the way you behave in this case, in the same way you treat this country, and in the same way you treat the people of the Czech Republic. You don't care about them at all. You only care about your personal gain, your personal gain. That's all you're after. And this brochure is a direct proof of that. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u42	The chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka will now appear and the chair of the KSČM Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u43	Thank you, I'll try to be brief, we have a number of very important laws here. I have two things. First of all, Prime Minister, the way you've been talking to Professor Válek about his testimonials, and if he has any erudition in the field of oncological diseases, I don't think it's fair for you to come here after Professor Válek explained what he's doing, what he's done, what he's done, and say you're sorry for it. That's the first thing. Second thing: let's work this out practically. I think it would probably be a solution not to throw away the material that was created here. Please call Principal Kabátek, or your Minister of Health, and have them send it on October 10th. I think that's the solution to this situation, to deal with it, and not to throw away 15 million crowns of printed material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u44	Now Vice-President of the House of Vojtěch Filip will appear, so far I have the last application. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u45	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Mr Vice Prime Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, so I think we could have missed this debate, we could have been dealing with something else. I'm not afraid of the brochure at all. If she's scared of the pirát, the TOP 09, if she's scared of them, I don't mind. If it bothers you, suggest here a resolution that it will come out on 10th or 11th, not that we're talking nonsense here, please. This brochure is relevant to people, oncological diseases in the Czech Republic are not something petty, and please, we can keep the debate. If you're scared, then you're just mad that you're not the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u46	Prime Minister Andrej Babiš is still reporting, because I have no one else in line before, he gets the floor. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u47	No, so I would like to sednout down with Mr Válek, with the people who have prepared the project, maybe they will explain to you the project, which, of course, did not like the Czech Oncological Society - the question is, what has fallen out of them over the years, but I do not want to deal with it. So I'd be happy to sit down with you. I'll just sit there and shut up and let Mr. Cibula, Mr. Hajdúch, Mr. Svoboda, your boss Štěrba and others talk to you. I am convinced that they will convince you that the project is good and that it is in favour of all our citizens. All of them. So that's one thing. As for Mr Bartošek's speech: please play it at home, the speech is an incredible load of nonsense and demagogy. Here is a memorandum on cooperation to improve prevention of oncological diseases, early detection of oncological diseases and addressed invitations to insured persons in the framework of screening programmes signed by the Ministry of Health, General Health Insurance Company, Military Health, Czech Industrial, Branch Employee, in short, all, and Office of the Government and National Screening Centre. So, on the basis of this memorandum, which is part of the national fight against cancer, the brochure is of course important. I understand that the opposition wants the brochure to be sent on October 11th - that is what President Jurečka here said. If everyone agrees, I don't have a problem with it. I'll call the Minister and have them send it on October 11th. But I think it was interesting what Mr. Filip said. And you're actually saying that the Prime Minister can't really do anything, but it doesn't matter. October 11th - great. Thank you for the promotion, I'll continue it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u48	I don't have another application, I'll read an apology. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. And since I don't have any more priority rights applications... I still have, Mr. Chairman of the Pirate Club, Jakub Michálek. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u49	Thank you for the floor. I thank the Prime Minister for making that decision. I also wanted to ask him if he could focus on the activities of the largest sausage company in the Czech Republic as sausages are a proven carcinogen according to the World Health Organization, as well as on fertilisers and biocidal products that, according to the World Health Organization, are potential carcinogens. These are all the things his firm, his former Agrofert, makes money on. I think that if he took some steps in this area of his own, it could help prevent cancer in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-09-15-ps2017-118-02-008-039.u50	The Prime Minister apologizes for reasons of work for the House of Deputies today. And so now we would proceed to the announced point - I know, Mr. Ambassador, I've got it all set up here. [[Members of the Colloversary.]] Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed with today's programme, I ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to the outcome of the election that took place before lunch. This was a point.
