ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u1	327. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union regulations in the field of invasive non-originating species /house print 731/ - third reading The Environment Minister Richard Brabec has just taken the position at the rapporteur's table, and I would also like to ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who was the Committee on the Environment, Mr Ondřej Babka. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 731/5, which was delivered on 15 April 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 731/6. I'm asking the plaintiff if he's interested in speaking. That's right. Before we open the debate, the Minister's speech. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u2	Thank you again, Mr President. I'm going to follow up on what I said a moment ago, and I'm going to cut back on the introduction, really just a few sentences, to remind you of the material. The Government's proposal for a law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of EU rules in the field of non-originating invasive species has already been subject to a very broad discussion here, and I am happy to do so, both on the Committee on the Environment and on the Committee on Agriculture, and it contains a number of fundamental points. I'm glad there's a match on a whole series of them. Let me just say before the debate begins that the Ministry of the Environment agrees with a number of amendments, but I would like to mention some that we cannot agree with. I would like to clearly reject all the amendments aimed at the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, but above all, they are aimed at weakening the conservation of nature and landscape. These are, in particular, proposals relating to the abolition of the pre-emptive right of the State to land in selected specially protected areas, which is covered by the amendment under letter E. Furthermore, a reduction in the level of protection of specially protected animals, which would obviously also lead to a conflict with European Union law, is covered by the amendment under point B1. Last but not least, the weakening of the protection of trees growing in water and sewage protection zones is covered by Amendment J. In all these cases and on committees, there has been a fundamental debate, and I am pleased that these proposals have not been supported and rejected in the Guarantee Committee on the Environment. On the contrary, we support the amendment relating to the shift in the proposed effectiveness, that is the amendment under letter D. Finally, I consider it important to mention that, as two legislative amendments or two amendments to the laws, our and the law on hunting, i.e. a separate government proposal for a regulation on hunting, have been discussed simultaneously, and I will be very happy if those amendments or most of those amendments which concern the amendment to the law on hunting are actually moved into the law on hunting, and I think that my colleagues, the petitioner, will still talk about it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate and Mr Čižinský, Mr Bendl, is the first member of the debate to be logged in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u4	Have a good day. I would really just like to fight for two amendments, they are under the letter S, and I would like to stand up for one of them a deer of Europe who suffers under the raid of a deer of sis. It is quite important in Western Bohemia, where it is a really huge problem, a huge problem. And then it's the douglas regime of the Tisolists. At the same time, I would like to thank the Minister for standing up - for rejecting those proposals which, in my view, really very much threaten the protection of nature in our country. I really hope that the proposals will not pass. Perhaps it would be ideal to withdraw them, if colleague Kott would not be willing to withdraw them, it would be necessary. And then I would like to ask, through Mr President, Mr Staněk, because he has announced the withdrawal of some proposals, so I just want to ask what the situation is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u5	Thank you, Mr Čižinský. Next up, Mr Bendl is entered into the debate, and Mrs Balcarová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u6	Good morning. Allow me to make a few comments on this seemingly irrelevant bill. I'd start with what the minister ended, and that's hunting law. [[9.40 hours]] I very much hope that my colleague Staněk will withdraw his unprecedented amendment in the form of the entire government proposal for a law on hunting, because this is a legislative absolute precedent and it is not possible for us to take individual bills and make them comprehensive amendments in the context of other laws. That's something I think our legislation, not only parliamentary but also senate, would have to hit the table and say that's not how it's done. The laws are to be discussed properly and all the more so, that we have hunting law at second reading, or actually passed second reading, actually before the third reading, that colleague Staněk should lift up and withdraw this proposal. As for the pre-emptive law that Mr... Minister Brabec was talking about here on the right. [[Looking back]] I wouldn't mind the principle where the state has an interest in acquiring some territory that is so important for future generations that the state would have an interest in buying them out. It bothers me - and I think that the state should and should deal directly with the owners, but at a time when the property, for example for years, is managed by family property, agricultural or any other, as part of the expansion of national parks, the emergence of new national parks, and so on, if the people are given a seal on their property, so that if they ever want to sell their property, they will not be able to manage the way they have managed so far. They won't be able to guarantee their property at the bank because there'll be a filling, they won't be able to do business anymore. Basically, it's kind of smothering the traditional business. And if someone has been doing business there for years and there has been an interesting location that has its reasons today, all those who run national parks or individual zones of national parks have obligations, have various limitations, have to adapt to them as the legislation pushes them. There's always an acceptable solution, but this interferes, I'll say, with the property-law relations of those people in a way that I think is unacceptable. It is not possible to give them a bit of a lid on their business while respecting all the legislative obligations that the given territory and legislation actually imposes on them, says to them: Dear citizens, we as a state consider what you own important, so we will give you some kind of lid so that you can no longer develop or can no longer do what you are doing here, even though the territory is interesting. [[unintelligible]] And we'll suffocate your business and force you to sell the property to us someday. I would like us to look for a different way, perhaps with those who own the property, on which we want to give them seals, to seek a different way than this gradual asphyxiation - rather a search for a way of direct agreements. I am open to discussing some legislative measure that takes into account the fact - and I do not rule out - that some such territories are. In the end, we deliberately removed the caves from the amendment, because there is an unchanging state. We weren't looking for a cave with a fellow Zahradník. Our primary concern was that someone ran meadows, forests, and forms, for example, for many years. National parks and their resonations are gradually expanding. It wasn't such a big deal in the past, because the national parks basically belonged to the whole state, and I feel like the land wasn't even published there. But today the national parks are expanding, increasingly affecting private relations within the Czech Republic, and I think we should find another way to deal with these owners, not to give them a seal on their property, because the state has decided that the territory is interesting to them. They couldn't vouch for the seal, they couldn't develop their business, they couldn't buy the right machines, they could buy them backwards, the legislation says - [[He's shutting himself down because of the noise in the room.]] I know this may not be very important to someone, please. I need to explain, because my point is not to block the situation where there will be some territory worth taking care of by the state, but my point is to protect the owner from actually suffocating him, but rather to negotiate directly with him and to find a way to deal with him, not to give him a choice other than the property that the state has decided to sell. I just know it's not gonna be thousands of cases, but it could be an intervention in the family's traditional management, and that's what we consider important, at least me and my colleague Zahradník and others. And the principle of giving them a seal on property, and then waiting for them to choke, and making them sell it, doesn't seem fair on the part of the state. To be positive in something, I am glad that the Ministry of the Environment has finally confirmed this through a resolution by the Agricultural Committee that, as far as these invasive species are concerned, we will be using them at this time - or rather, we will be leaning towards the European concept of the list, which does not exclude that we can one day, but please, after a debate with experts, with owners and economic operators, because we are already economically using some of these invasive species today. It's the adjective that's discussed, it's a discussed academy that's already being used economically. It is necessary to keep them under control, and I agree with nature protection, because there are a number of arguments that experts point out that the soil under these trees does not give a chance for any of the undergrowth to appear at all, because the acacia, as we know, is poisonous and causes there actually no herbs and no other plants to grow. I understand the experts pointing that out, and if we want to help nature behave in a natural way, then we have to take this into account. But there are some invasive species that we use economically, and we should bear that in mind. Then there are species that we do not use economically, such as the Bolshevik and the like, and that needs to be dealt with, I absolutely agree. I very much support this and I am glad that the Ministry of the Environment has the same position. Thank you for your attention. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mrs Balcarová is enrolled in the debate. Member Antonín Staněk will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me speak here about the two amendments that I am proposing which seem very important to me. One concerns the national list of invasive species, because the European list, which the proposed legislation contains, does not contain the species listed, which are specific and are specific because they occur mainly only in the Czech Republic and cause damage here. I'll mention an alpine puppy who's not on the European list. It is a plant that expands more in higher positions, such as in the Krkonoše National Park or in the Jizera Mountains, and there creates large areas that push out those mountain plants, which are very fragile to foreign species, and there can really be a threat to biodiversity. [[9.50 hours]] So I think it's important that the national list joins our novel. It even calls for this to be done by the European Commission, which writes in the directive that national states can adopt their own national lists. A relatively large proportion of European countries have done so, and unfortunately, the Czech Republic has not proceeded to do so. And why I think it's important to have these species on the list in some way is because then it's clear how they go against them, how they regulate themselves, what mechanisms they use to do it, because it doesn't mean that if a plant or animal is an invasive species, that it has to be completely discharged, but the regulation can be such that it can only be maintained in a locality or in some amount. So it's important to have the regulatory mechanisms set up for these species, and they're not just plants, but it's also a mink American, which is in our country -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you to remain calm. If you have a solution, go to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Norek is really a beast, he's a pretty rough predator who decimates the population of crayons, snakes, amphibians. There are regions where it really has already exceeded some critical values and there is causing enormous damage. Even fish farmers have a big problem with this predator. So I would like to, and I would ask you to support the amendment, which is press 7596. The second amendment for which I would like to receive support here is the return to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, the obligation to store replacement plantings for cut trees that meet the parameters that determine that the tree is large, significant. It's given its diameter at a height of 120 cm that the diameter is greater than 80 cm. This means that they are really big, grown trees, and if administrative proceedings are already being conducted about cutting down, it is clear that they are significant trees and that they are of important value in that city. If they are cut down, the replacement planting should be imposed and it should be an obligation. Because if the law says only that the office can store the replacement plantings, so are the authorities that do not impose this option, and it is a great shame because trees are disappearing in our cities today. Often it disappears completely for nothing, because it is only convenient to remove the tree due to some construction, although the tree is not directly colliding with the construction, but maybe it gets there more easily by car that they can drive the shorter way. But that should not be the reason why trees are cut down whose value is calculated according to the methodology of the Ministry of Environment in the amount of hundreds of thousands of crowns. That's what they're worth. That's what they're worth to us, to the people who live in those cities. So the fact that a replacement planting will always be saved for such a cut-down tree will actually be a prevention against unnecessary cutting. So I would ask you to support my second amendment, which is under number 7599. Then I would like to say that if my colleague Staněk - I would like to call him on this, on behalf of the President, if he would tell us what is going on with the amendment that includes the amendment on hunting. Because if he doesn't, then I will come forward and I will have to defend the amendments that concern his amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u11	Thank you. I will ask Mr Antonín Staněk to prepare Mr Josef Kott. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, if someone is watching the board entered into the debate, they can see from the outset that I am logged into the debate. I understand, of course, the appeals of my fellow Members from the Chamber of Deputies, whether it was the last speaker or Mr Bendl and Mr Čižinský. I think it's always true that a given word is a word that should be kept. I, as the petitioner for this amendment, to which Mr Kott and colleague Kováčik were also alongside me, have promised that if we get through the second reading of the Act on hunting, we have no problem with withdrawing our amendments. This means the hunting law has been passed through second reading, the hunting law has headed to third reading, and here I am expressing my conviction and faith and confidence in the Chamber of Deputies that the hunting law will pass through the third reading and will still be approved during this parliamentary term. Otherwise, of course, I'd have to see it as a kind of double-cross, but I believe that nothing like this will happen. I would merely like to address Mr Bendl's speech, by your means, Mr President, on an unprecedented amendment that legislation would have to deal with. I think that the reasoning that we made when submitting this amendment is sufficiently understandable and explains its inclusion in this law. However, I do not deny the Member's right to his opinion, as I have my view of the problem. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, on behalf of the petitioners, to withdraw and not to vote on the amendments that have been read under 7629, 7631 and 7632. At the same time, let me ask you to support the amendment that we tabled with my colleague Dolínek and is under number 8157. I will, if necessary, comment on this proposal, but that is not the current one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u13	Thank you. I'll ask the rapporteur, I presume he's marked it. It's third reading, so we're going to vote to withdraw the proposal. Mr Josef Kott, Mr Lubomír Volný will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, Madam Secretary, thank you for what Staněk has done here. That's right. Since we've made a commitment to this, I'm glad we can do that, that we sent the hunting law to the third reading. Indeed, we also perceive that it belongs there, we will discuss it there, and we will deal with it there, and we will decide within the hunting law what we want and what we do not want to regulate. Now, since I have been mentioned here as both Minister, Mr Čižinský and colleague Balcarová, I would like to comment on my amendment, House document 7485, which deals with water and sewerage. [[10.00 hours]] What I am most sorry about is the two-track interpretation of the law on conservation of nature on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the water law, because the water law speaks of the immediate removal of disturbances and accidents involving taps and sewerage. The supply of drinking water for households and businesses is to be secured immediately and, on the other hand, when we do not remove the sewerage failure without delay, soil contamination occurs and then more of the environment. I do not understand the hysteria that has arisen here, the thousands, tens of thousands of e-mails that have come into our e-mail boxes, because I am convinced - and the figures are talking about it - that more than 70 percent of taps and sewers are now being placed in cities and municipalities within local roads. Nor can it be true that 100 - year - old, 200 - year - old trees grow in places where water and sewers run, because water and sewers were built in the 1960s and 1970s. And the third thing that is also not true is that there will be massive destruction of grown trees. There are literate people sitting in the towns. There are mayors, deputy mayors, councillors who are certainly interested in having the maximum amount of greenery in their cities and villages. Surely they will not plumber and destroy trees just because there is a water supply or sewer under it. I think that a reasonable council, a reasonable mayor, a reasonable deputy mayor will only use this instrument when there is an accident and when it is necessary to secure both the supply of drinking water and the sewerage. That is why I would like to ask for support, although I know it may not be quite easy, because the e-mails - and I apologize again - have received a great deal, but it is certainly not that I or the person who supports this law would be in direct conflict with the fact that it wants to destroy the environment. It's really not like that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u15	Good morning, honourable Members. We will continue the debate at third reading. Before I give the floor to Mr Volný, I note that there has been an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Lukáš Bartoň between 11:45 and 14:00. Now, then, Mr Lubomír Volný and Mrs Balcarová will be ready. aha, sorry, factual points. First a colleague of Čižinský, then Mrs Balcarová. A colleague of Čižinský, in order of order, as is in the electronic record. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u16	I would like to respond to the previous speaker, Mr Kott. On the contrary, I am very grateful to the public that she stood up for the trees, because unfortunately - and it was clearly said on the Committee on the Environment - the Minister will also confirm this - unfortunately, in the spring we witnessed really great plundering, whether from the side of energy companies, so unfortunately from the Czech Railways, and so unfortunately also from the side of self-government. Indeed, there was a massive, unnecessary cutting of greenery. Many people were shocked by this, and now they are even more shocked that such a thing could spread to cities. If there is a water accident, please, the crash will actually be repaired immediately. If it bothers any tree, the tree will be cut down, and it's totally fine, so please. Unfortunately, it is this proposal that makes it possible for someone unreasonable to sit somewhere, cutting completely headless, it threatens - if I look at Prague - 80 percent of the trees in the center of Prague. And please note that billions of crowns have invested in the trees of the city and the village and it is not a hundred-year-old tree, it is 20-year-old trees, 30-year-old trees, they are of great value to the city. So I very much appeal, please, that Mr Kott's proposals today do not pass because they threaten life in cities and threaten trees actually across our country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs Dana Balcarová's factual point and another factual point will be from Mrs Bendl. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I thank my colleague Čižinský for saying almost exactly what I would like to say here, and I would like to support his words. And as Mr Kott here has said that they are reasonable mayors and that they are reasonable representatives, so here you have heard the word of the mayor of one large city district that tells you that he sees the risk as enormous and that it is very dangerous for the trees in the city and for the quality of life of our citizens, because if the streets, accompanying greenery will be removed, those streets will not live. I was just about to say that two nights ago, we approved the construction law here at the third reading. I'm very unhappy about the look on his face, but one thing I think is that there is a good thing, and that there has been an anchoring of the concept of blue-green infrastructure, which means that it gets in some way on the same level as other networks, that means sewerage, electrical wiring, the Internet. So even by the fact that it's now anchored in the law, it's clear that the networks are very important and should have a great degree of protection. So, really, the amendment that would make it possible to cut down water and sewerage without any opinion from the environmental authorities is very dangerous. That's one thing. And then I would also like to draw attention to the second amendment, also to Mr Kott. It is an amendment that will be voted B1, which concerns the abolition of the protection of highly endangered species of plants and animals. This is an amendment which I also see as very dangerous, and I ask you to consider whether you want to support such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Petr Bendl's point of fact is now in effect and a colleague, Lubomír Volný, is ready. No? Okay, my colleague Bendl is no longer demanding a factual remark. That is, Mr Volný, duly signed up for the debate at third reading. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u20	So hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, Mr President. I would like to comment here on some specific amendments. I would start with Mr Petr Pávek's proposal for a law amending certain laws in relation to the implementation of EU regulations in the field of invasive species, House print number 731: § 14 - the authorisation of hunting guards, in parentheses first. The hunting guard shall be entitled to: (a) request from persons who are in the pursuit of firearms or other hunting equipment, the presentation of an arms licence, a gun licence, evidence of the passing of a test from a bow-hunting. If persons are in hunting with a bow hunting ticket, hunting allowances and compulsory insurance certificates, or any other licence. [[There are voices from the bench that the Free Member does not speak on the subject.]] You have to prove a name, a last name... that I'm wrong? Well, I'll check it out, then... I have here written in House Press 731... Petr Pávek, 731... that's what it says here. [[He's flipping through the materials.]] It's written here, so I'll read it so I know why it's downloaded. So that's fine, but that's what we're gonna vote on, so we know what we're gonna vote on, right? [[Again, dissenting voices from the diaper.]] If they're... you need to know what you're gonna vote on, there's gonna be a vote on it. The President said there would be a vote on this, the former President. That withdrawal has to be voted on or not? I'll consult with the legislation, I don't mind. What is it, Mr President, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u21	Mr Member, of course, if the amendment is to arrive until the third reading, the Chamber of Deputies must vote on it if it allows the amendment to be withdrawn, because, if the third reading is required to be withdrawn. If withdrawal was requested at the committee meeting at second reading, it shall be withdrawn because it may still be submitted by someone else, but if it is part of the protocol, it shall be put to the vote. This is a simple explanation under the Rules of Procedure because someone does not submit an amendment because it is tabled and does not want to repeat it. In that case, when such an amendment cannot be tabled again, this must be decided. I will look at the protocol as it is, and we will, of course, act accordingly in the vote itself. The rapporteur will certainly have objective information and will say that information in the procedure of voting itself. Yes, rapporteur, that is so. If you think it's possible without further action, you can proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u22	Thank you, Mr President. So just so we know what we're going to vote on, let's say it once again, because I think that this, this amendment, should not be withdrawn, and I will vote against it being withdrawn. Well, I'd better start from the beginning, so we can all be aware. So "§ 14, authorisation of hunting guard, in parentheses first. The hunting guard shall be entitled to: (a) request from persons who are in the pursuit of firearms or other hunting equipment, the presentation of an arms licence, a gun licence, proof of the completion of a bow-hunting test. If persons are in hunting with a bow, then apparently they are also hunting ticket, hunting allowances and compulsory insurance certificates, or any other card by which the name, surname, date of birth and place of permanent or temporary residence can be demonstrated. (d) to withdraw the firearms, bows or prohibited hunting equipment, caught, caught or transported by game, and, where appropriate, by the hunting dog and ferrets, and to ban them from hunting. The removal of the case shall be subject to an official record and the person to whom the case has been withdrawn shall issue a certificate of withdrawal and removal of the firearm, bow or prohibited hunting equipment to the police authority without delay. The persons referred to in points (a) to (d) shall comply with or, where appropriate, comply with the challenges or actions referred to therein. § 44a, use of the bow. One. The decree sets out more detailed instructions on the use of the bow in hunting for game, the method of carrying out trials from hunting for meadows and which hunting organizations" - here it will be necessary to correct the error because there is a six, so please report on the record - "and schools where hunting is a field of study or compulsory teaching subject. They may be entrusted with the organisation of such tests..." Well, I read that wrong, and I have to do it again, I beg you to understand. My bad, I'm sorry... "The decree sets out more detailed guidelines on the use of the bow in hunting for game, the method of carrying out trials on hunting for meadows and which hunting organisations" - here is the error - "and schools where hunting is a subject of study or compulsory teaching may be trusted by the organisation of such trials as well..." I've got the wrong organization as that organization and organization as a word, like that organization, so I apologize to you... "as well as which international or foreign trials of hunting by bow are valid in the territory of the Czech Republic." For now, it is quite logical, and I really think that we should vote on this, because I do not understand why we should postpone it, since it has already come to the third reading, and I seriously consider adopting this amendment in the case of voting off, because I really like it here, as Mr Pávek wrote it. So "§ 45. One. Game hunting may only be carried out in a manner consistent with the principles of hunting, nature protection and animal protection against abuse." This should be in the minds and hearts of all of us, especially when here in this amendment it is clearly written that "forbids to shoot animals with a weapon other than a hunting weapon." That's right. Why should someone be carrying a machine gun or a gun or something, I don't know what, a homemade pipe bomb, or someone having to hunt fish with explosives, that would really be a disaster. That's why Mr. Pávek here has very reasonably written in the parentheses what he means, and he means a long shotgun with a ball, a shotgun or a combination. That's a big advantage. If anyone is nimrod, then you know that combined shotguns and balls are completely optimal for hunting game, because at that moment you can decide whether to hunt with a shotgun or with a ball. The fundamental differences are clear because the balls are used to shoot at a long distance, whereas the pellets are used to shoot at a short distance, like a large flock of goose or duck. But what's nice here is "or a bow intended for hunting purposes." And I think that this bow, that is the beautiful news of this amendment here, and we should think about it, because hunting with a bow, as you will see in the explanatory report on this great amendment by Mr Pávek, has a great many advantages against firearms. What scares me a little bit is that when I was a kid, I used to go to the woods with a bow. And now I don't know if there should ever be an addition to that amendment, perhaps in the future, that we are talking about specific hunting meadows that have a certain strength. I'm sure everyone here knows he's not a bow like a bow. So if the guys make a bow out of a bent branch and some string and cut off a twig, I don't think anybody should confiscate it, and they shouldn't be asked for some identification, because I think that's pointless. Just guys are guys, and if a little girl wants to play with it, they're gonna let her do it in terms of gender balance and justice, and the bow borrows her so she can shoot herself in a tree or something. Well, the important thing is to "k) shoot the deer with a gun other than a gun with an energy charge in 100 meters below 1,000 joules or a bow -" here it is, actually, you see, my colleague, so I'm sorry, you've got it here, it's great - "about the tension force of less than 50 pounds." That's crucial, because if the tension force were really less than 50 pounds, it would only cause animal injuries, and that would be her abuse. Definitely not even the Indians in South and North America, nor our ancestors used weapons to abuse the animal unnecessarily, only to hurt it, and then they would have to find it difficult. So this is very sensible, and I think we should support it. "and the other game of cloven-hoofing less than 1,500 joules... or a bow with a tension force lower than..." Sorry, I'm gonna read it again because I got lost in it: "K) Shooting deer animals with a gun other than a rifle with an energy charge in 100 meters below 1,100 joules" - that's logical - "or a bow with a draw power below 50 pounds and others..." No, I read it well, I'm sorry. So all right, I don't have to read it from the beginning... "This does not apply when hunting a pig and a lioness, a wild pig who can shoot a shotgun with a single shot during a chase... a chase, a chase or a shotgun." Amazing. Mr. Pávek, brilliant design, great, thank you. " (x) Shoot the animals with a bow, arrows which are not indelible and clearly marked with the number of the hunting ticket on the arrow body, five centimeters from the helms towards the tip." That's very important. I like this Germanic precision here, and I think all those forest guards should carry a drawer with them, and here we could combine a fine in the future, if it were just 4,9 or 5.01, I think it should be followed by taking not only an arrow, but also a bow, a car, a wife and a house. This is one of the most important things here on this amendment. Sorry, I'm getting a call. I forgot to turn off the bell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u23	Ambassador, I must warn you that you should stick to the matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u24	"Shoot the animals with a bow..." I am expressing my opinion on the specific amendment to be put to the vote here that it will be eliminated. I am here to encourage that he is not eliminated, and since I am absolutely sure that Members do not know him, just as they did not know the texts of the petitions I have read to them before, and since here it is quite common for people to vote on something they have no idea of, I want to bring it closer to them at the third reading, the particular amendment. I don't know why you can't turn it off. [[He's pulling his cell phone out of his jacket pocket again.]] "This doesn't apply when hunting a pig and a wild lionfish, which can be shot with a shotgun with a uniform..." Yeah, we're here. "Shooting animals with arrows other than hunting spikes" - that's logical, because that would be abuse -- either mechanical or fixed. Dull hunting spikes may only be used for hunting other than cloven-hoofed game." I think the amendment is absolutely perfect because it will prevent animal abuse in the future. Please do not remove it from this third reading and approve it. Another section 46 is also excellent: "Hunting leave. He who hunts animals must have a hunting ticket with him." Is that what's bothering you? "Permission to hunt and certificate of compulsory insurance. When hunting with weapons, also weapons identification and identification of weapons.' Does that bother you? What's wrong with that? "When fishing with a bow, a fishing permit shall be marked with a permit to hunt with a bow and proof of the passing of the test from the hunting with a bow." That's logical. We can't have someone walking in the woods who has a bow with high tension, arrows with a metal spike, who doesn't have a test of shooting with a bow. I think that this is very logical and typically European, because we must give security above all else. And immediately, of course, the suffering of animals, exactly as this amendment follows. "And when hunting with a hunter his record card." That's also, that's just great. Why would somebody catch a falcon and then use it for hunting without a record? It's basically like a forest pride. "These cards are required by the person who hunts the animals" - it is not about the people, so the animals, that is also correct - "to submit, at the request of the authority of the police, the body of the state administration of hunting, the hunter and the hunting guard responsible for hunting." I really don't know what's bothering the petitioner on this amendment, because it's perfectly written, and here in this House, he would definitely get most of it for him. "Secondly, the fishing allowances shall be issued and signed by the hunter on the forms he has issued for this purpose." So what else is he supposed to write it on, huh? "For persons fishing for common fisheries, a fishing permit may replace the list of persons participating in it.' That's perfect! Mass permit to hunt! This should be supported especially by the pirát, because everything is shared with them, so it is clear to me that even the pirát will support such a shared fishing permit. Like New York and Chicago, that's where they do it all the time. "The Wanker shall record the issued allowances, including their designs, for at least three years after their expiry.' That's great, too! We're getting a statement of reasons. "The relevant provisions in the Czech Republic abolish the ban on hunting with a bow." Yes, that is quite an essential thing, because hunting with a bow, as you will soon learn, is quiet, ecological, efficient, modern, euro union-like. I think that, for example, a carbon footprint of a bow-hunting, even if we count on his carbon footprint to produce a bow, for example, in China and its transport to the European Union and the production of individual arrows in Bangladesh and India, I think that one single shot from a shot of a shotgun or a ball will create such a crucial carbon footprint that you can't commit, even if you shoot a thousand times with an arrow. So any environmental activist who's definitely here a lot in the House should just support the hunt with a bow. It's the perfect, perfect, ecological thing. And that's why archery is to 1. 10. 2019 as a way of hunting legal already in 24 European countries and represents a traditional and fair way of hunting. In my essence, I am really surprised that in the Czech Republic this is not a traditional way of hunting. That's interesting. When did this happen? FACE, the European Hunting Federation and its members, at the FACE Council meeting on 7. 9. 2020 - this is September 7, 2020, last year, they stated that hunting with a bow is a complement to hunting with a firearm that meets the requirements for gunfighting, and called on national and regional authorities to set up an appropriate legislative framework for hunting with a bow and to encourage further development of this method of hunting. So all the sympathizers of the European Union here in the House should realize that this really has the support of 24 European countries. I do not know if all the 24 European countries are part of the European Union, because some European countries have retained enough intelligence and balance sheets not to enter the European Union. So I don't know if Switzerland or our favorite Ukraine are included in those 24 European countries, I don't know, but I think that most of the time, in Ukraine, they're hunting with Kalashnikov and not exactly animals. So I don't think they're gonna be counted. But most European Union countries seem to have a bow-hunt approved. So please, all of you who are pro-European progressives - I don't know if I'm saying this right - should support this proposal. Because it's just -- I'm sure you have a blessing from Brussels, and they'll thank you there. "The hunting of the bow has been discussed with the Directorate of State Veterinary Administration at the level of welfare" - I apologize, I do not know what it means - "and Act No. 246/1992 Coll. to protect animals against abuse" - you see, again - "where compliance has been established in all areas." Just, if you kill an animal with a bow and arrow, you don't torture it, and that's important. "The bow hunt was also repeatedly discussed with the Ministry of Agriculture and from a legislative point of view JUDr Bc Renáta Jindrichová" from the Ministry of Agriculture, which worked as a bachelor's thesis at the Faculty of Forestry and Wood Technology of the Czech Agricultural University in Prague, draft rules for the use of bow for hunting purposes in the Czech Republic." [[right Jindra]] Finally, we have information that in this country they are being processed - that is awfully positive - even bachelor's work, which is really important for the functioning of this country, because yesterday I read some bachelor's work by Miss Charles University, which had gender-balanced preparation of the egg without bacon, and that really doesn't seem to me to be a worthwhile bachelor's work that we should invest state money in. But for example, when a doctor, a bachelor, prepares a draft of rules for using a bow for hunting purposes on the territory of the Czech Republic, it's great because it will have a specific impact and a specific contribution to stop torturing hunted animals. "The legalization of archery as a way of hunting will contribute to the reduction of the abundant species of game" - perfect - "and other animals." Multiplied species of game and other animals. "Enabling archery as a way of hunting will make hunting more attractive to the youth" - which is important. I can tell you, as a gym teacher, even though I don't look like it right now, that it's not really easy to ensure any exercise that's attractive to the youth these days. And there are really big differences in, like, average gym class between kids who do some sports and don't do sports. And I believe that if hundreds and thousands of kids show up here, to whom we hand out these bows with great tension and steel tops, it'll be absolutely perfect, because they'll be running around the woods, and they'll learn the basic things we've learned, like, what they were called, when they get shot, they'll definitely learn how to do that stool, take a shot friend here to see the doctor, so he can treat them. [[10.30 hours]] I hope they don't shoot each other in the throat, that's what we should tell them. It should be worked out that if the children aim at each other with strong bows with arrows, so that they should aim from the neck down. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, the neck's probably the worst, isn't it, head? You can handle the rest. So that should be worked out. I think it's such a small shortage. More attractive for young people and people who wouldn't otherwise be able to hunt, for example, for me, because you know perfectly well that no one will ever give me a gun license. That's understandable. But I could normally buy a bow like that. "The declining number of active hunters" - well, that's another disaster... Who's gonna feed these animals in the winter? Who's gonna take care of them so she doesn't get hungry and get warm when the number of hunters is dropping? But for example, Mr. Kohoutek here, I can already see him with that two-foot bow going in winter to put his acorns in the chowder. Because it's gonna be more attractive, just like it says here. "A declining number of active hunters" - that's a big problem, yes, that's what it says here - "and it represents one of the main causes of the overgrowth of cloven-hoofed game and the free spread of invasive species." [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I can imagine an entire club of SPD going with bows into our lances, forests and groves and shooting arrows at invasive species and thus protecting this republic from their invasion and overgrowth. [[Responses in SPD benches.]] "The archery is" - this is important information for former colleagues from the SPD - "The archery is silent, highly selective and effective" - it says here - "The hunting distance of the arrow is very short."! So you have to move fast. [[Responses in SPD benches. Laughter of the speaker.]] "At normal height and a horizontal shot" - so it is clear that a colleague would have to shoot a little more up than a colleague, because "at normal height and a horizontal shot equals a range of about 70 meters" - which is enough - "with arrows sensitive to the barriers" - for example, to fellow members. He's going to turn to the ground after that. "Thanks to these characteristics, it allows the elimination of oversized game and other animals in suburban and other problematic areas" - so that you can also hunt in cities - "in a way that does not create negative reactions from citizens" - another advantage - "especially due to the absence of noise during the shot." The police aren't coming. "He can perform a similar role in problematic areas as crossbows. The hurtful effect is based on a stabbing principle, where blood pressure will immediately fall" - that would also be useful for many Members - "the minimal suffering of game, maximum coloration, and the animals are leaving the shell at most a few dozen meters. There is no elimination of stress hormones into the blood and venison is not devastated, it is very quality" - which is appreciated by every culinary specialist here in this House, and that we are here. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] My colleague, don't be nervous. . [[Gesticulates towards the benches against the speaker counter]] "Last but not least, archery does not burden the environment. Arrows are repeatedly usable and do not contain lead." They don't contain lead. Do you remember all the shows we had here because the European Union clearly forbade us lead? We don't have to deal with this here. There's no barrel that we'd break with copper or steel pellets, and the air doesn't care if it's flowing through an arrow with lead or steel toe. But on the other hand, the lead tip would probably not have such an impact and it would certainly have changed the flight path, so my colleague Maříková would have had to aim at least 20 centimeters higher than my colleague Kohoutek. "The abolition of the bow-hunting ban will have no negative effects." That's right. That's right. Why would this have negative consequences? "On the contrary, it will lead to the elimination of possible illegal hunting" - because anyone who goes to the woods today to be poached with a bow will become a legal hunter. So much for the first amendment I wanted to discuss with you today. I think it's one of those more fundamental ones and I don't understand why the ČSSD wants to download it, because given its preferences, the enforcement of this law could be their election hit to show that you're concerned about the quality of life and the dying of our animals, that you're people, even if you're in the ČSSD, that you're just serious about the promotion of your program. So I'm asking you not to download this, and the rest of the House, which is pro-eurounitarian and which is ecological, which thinks progressively, please vote against the possible suicide proposal of the ČSSD to withdraw this point. Secondly, I would like to comment on Mr Josef Kott's amendment, and since there has already been a discussion, I think again that you have not read it at all, and as you do, you rely only on the opinion of the people who come to the committee, they will give you some opinions, I see it here at ANO, gentlemen are reading it right now, they do not know what they will vote on. They just have some committee opinions written there, and they're gonna respect that. And I think that this is such an important law and such an important amendment that you should actually meet it. And I understand that some of you are just tired.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u25	Ambassador, I'm bringing you back to the point. [[Member Free: Okay.]] Since I have checked, you are talking about an amendment which is not part of the press, 731/5, where there is an inventory of all the amendments that have been read in the committee or which have been tabled by the committee and which have been tabled by Members. So the withdrawal is really, and I have already been consulted by the rapporteur, and I draw attention to all that this proposal has not been read in a detailed debate, it is not part of the press, so it will not be voted on, but it will not be voted on, either, because it is simply not part of our negotiations. [[Member Free: Okay, thank you.]] It's kind of a very interesting obstruction from you -- but I can't call it any other way. [[Free Member: But I'm already talking about another]] Enough to keep me out of the chair's authority. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u26	Thank you. I am done with the proposal, which I should not have read, and now I am doing the proposal of Mr. Josef Kott 7485. Could you verify that this proposal will be put to the vote today? 7485, yes. This proposal will be voted on, so I would like to discuss it here with my colleagues, because this is another very important amendment by Mr Josef Kott under number 7485 to the draft law amending certain laws in connection with the implementation of European Union rules on invasive non-originating species. So if you didn't know, the House press number 731. Mr. Kott here suggests, "First of all. In Part 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: I the following point 16 is inserted, including the footnote: In Article 8, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2" - please, this is important - "st. 2 edits as follows: 2." - everywhere 2 - "Admission is not necessary to cut trees on grounds of growing, this is for the purpose of restoring the crops or in carrying out an educational crop collection." I think the critics have overlooked this amendment. This is a very important concept - in the implementation of educational crop collections, because when you don't discuss the growth of education... when you don't discuss your growth in education, it's socially unacceptable. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] It's a repulsive impression. So please, all of you, even if you do not have a legal standard to do this, do educational surveys of your crops, "especially in the maintenance of shore crops" - these are extremely important because they are sometimes seen - "used to manage watercourses, to remove trees in the protection zone of the electrical and gas system equipment carried out in the operation of these systems, to remove trees in the protection zone of the thermal energy distribution equipment carried out in the operation of these plants." [[Reactions in the O.R. Big noise.]] The comma, it wasn't the end of the sentence, but it's highlighted here, so that's important. [[10.40 hours]] "For the removal of trees in the water supply protection or sewerage protection zone, 6c, carried out during the operation of these plants, for the removal of trees to ensure the operability of the railway or to ensure smooth and safe rail transport on this track and for reasons of health, unless otherwise provided in this Act. For these reasons, cutting must be notified in writing at least 15 days in advance to the nature conservation authority, which may suspend them" - you see, such a beautiful insurance policy here is - "interrupt or prohibit if it contradicts the requirements for the protection of trees; in the case of the removal of trees, in order to ensure the operability of the railway infrastructure or to ensure smooth and safe rail transport on that runway, it may do so only on the basis of a binding opinion of the railway administration.'; I understand that this proposal by my colleague Kott is, as they call it... What am I... I can't remember what kind of politician I am right now, moment... controversial. I understand that the draft of this law or this amendment is controversial, but in its essence it is a small change, only it states that it is also "to remove trees in the water supply protection zone or sewerage carried out in the operation of these facilities" - and the safety is constantly preserved there. I would have found it here - that "chopping for these reasons must be notified in writing at least 15 days in advance to the nature conservation authority, which may suspend it." So I see it this way, although, of course, trees are at risk in Prague, so perhaps you have normal people on nature protection bodies who, for example, would not allow cutting of some kauri tree or - I don't know - some mahogany tree or a thousand-year-old oak or beech in Prague due to a water line. You certainly have such officials in Prague and there is no reason for them to remove, like, air raids... But it is true that we in Ostrava have some problems with this, because it is usually the removal of air raid trees without replacement. And it's a fact that cities could have a legal obligation to replace the tree somewhere else, preferably at least 1 : 2, except, of course, the water supply protection zone or the sewer system, because we have to admit that in our cities there was this guerrilla planting of trees in the past, when people, living in panel houses in the wilderness, were simply planting those trees where they wanted to make their living more pleasant. And it is true that they often planted inappropriate species of trees from which dried branches may then fall. Every municipal politician has experience of this, and unfortunately it is the responsibility of those local politicians, as we all know here, that these people are not at risk or injured, so then there is mass cutting of those trees, which then do not work ecologically or functionally, because they really are such poor people, and it does not work well aesthetically. So sometimes you have to pay that cruel tax that a tree that grew beautifully in front of your house for 30 years, you just have to jump. Even though it was a partisan guerrilla planting, those cities should expect to replace the tree with a tree that is suitable for the city and which, of course, will be planted so as not to threaten high voltage wires, all the pipes that are in the ground, Internet cables, gas lines, water lines and so on. So I think we could trust the authorities on this one. And there's this common argument that, while no one trusts us even a good day, most people trust their mayors. Wait a minute... "The following amendment points are being numbered." Mr Kott writes in his reasoning, and he has it well worked out, and listen to this: "The proposed changes are aimed at strengthening the rights of owners and operators of taps and sewers, i.e. elements of critical infrastructure. " That's absolutely true. It's a fact that we lost the fight for our water in the first round. There's a certain water mafia that bought our water, left us the pipes, now they're making billions of crowns, we've got one of the most expensive waters in Central Europe, or maybe in Europe, who knows if they're not in the world. But, of course, even these robbers have rights, and we are obliged to take care of them. So this clause has - these are mostly the same cities now, so it's okay - "and the equalization of their position with electricity, heat and gas system operators and equipment." This is a clear anti-discrimination amendment in this amendment... [[A clue from the diaper.]] Thank you, I finally understand what the clue in the theater is for, it's very pleasant. Yes, it is an anti-discrimination element in this excellently processed amendment, because why should water operators be discriminated against compared to, for example, operators, as it was there, heat and gas systems and equipment? Are water facility operators anything less than the heating plants? About what? Explain to me, what's the difference between a guy running a water supply and somebody running a heat plant? We really shouldn't let that happen, because this House must be anti-discrimination. "As in the case of these plants, permanent crops can - yes, permanent crops, that is the problem - "including air raid trees" - well, that is already a big problem - "to threaten the continuous supply of the population with drinking water and waste water removal services, especially in relation to maintenance and repairs, including emergency repairs, on these facilities." And now imagine that because of some tree within that guerrilla plantation that has fulfilled its function in 30 years, it really produced oxygen, gave us a shadow, made our living aesthetically pleasant, but unfortunately it has grown into your waste pipes and you will not flush at home. I get it, I like trees too, and I think that greenery in cities should really grow, like green walls or green ceilings, hopefully some fake money from the European Union, created electronically and sent out into the world without any cover. As soon as this quantifiably released fake currency arrives in some program, we could really greenen the walls of those panels, greenen the roofs, and live in a beautiful cottage like a hobbit. Oh, please, that tree could be a problem, because you're not gonna be good at trash. Now, imagine. You come home in 2021, and you don't drain the water! And Mr Kott has worked on this: "In recent years, problems have been growing with the fact that the original air raid trees are directly damaging infrastructure, sewerage or preventing efficient maintenance and, consequently, repairs, where the supply of drinking water is threatened for tens of thousands of consumers by the absence of the consent of the nature protection authority to carry out the necessary work and adjustments. " I understand that Prague, for example, is terribly green for us, that there are gardens instead of parking lots or there are seats in the middle of a tram line and that everything is done here to make Prague as green as possible. But I really don't think it should turn green like a forest, that Prague will be a forest where nature will live unmaintained. Prague should be a cultural city. It should be a cultural city with a cultural green policy, so I would recommend the criticism of this amendment, so that they focus more on how to culturally greenen Prague in order to really be Prague as well as Ostrava. Because when you go to the lookout tower in Ostrava -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u27	Ambassador, I'm bringing you back to the point. I understand that you are not the only one trying to twist the Rules of Procedure at third reading, it is a custom here in this parliamentary term. But I think it is a good time for me to repeat § 95 para. 2 Rules of Procedure: "At the third reading, a debate is held which can only be proposed to correct the date of effectiveness of the bill, legislative technical errors, grammatical errors, errors in written or printing, adjustments which logically result from the amendments tabled, or to submit a proposal for repeated second reading.' So the debate you are having is for first reading perhaps, for second reading on amendments, but not for third reading. That's my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure Act, I guess I'm the only one who's taking care of it. So please continue, but I'm telling you again, you're not talking about the third reading debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u28	So I would like to propose some grammatical mistakes that I found in Mrs Dana Balcarová's amendment, because I think it should say Dany Balcar, Balcarová's is not right. It's just gender imbalance, it's wrong, so I think this is a grammatical mistake. A government proposal - I think it's supposed to be a short y's. It's okay with the bill. Which - there is supposed to be soft even. Some laws - there should also be soft even. In connection - there should be twice the hard y. Implementation - that's pretty clear, hard y. Regulations - there is definitely supposed to be a European Union - are supposed to be small e. The Union in the field of invasive non-originating species - here I don't know if the word "species" belongs or doesn't belong in the words listed, so I'm not quite sure. Government bill, which - after r is just always soft i. That's pretty obvious. Changing-- that's where y is supposed to be. I hope you're up for all this. [[To the newsstand.]] It's gonna be in the stew. It won't? That's interesting. Regulations - that's where the Europeans are supposed to be, I've already said that. Why should the European Union write with a capital E? That's wrong, little e. In the area-- there's a y. I'm pretty sure. I-I don't know that either, if it's part of the words listed, that's why I'm not going to comment. Part of the first - there is supposed to be a hard y. That's how I hear it, that's pretty obvious. At the point, there's supposed to be a stab. No, I'm sure you didn't. They're inserting a new one - it's supposed to be short e.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u29	One more time, Mr. Ambassador. I know obstruction is part of politics, but I don't think you have to make yourself into a person who will twist the Czech language around here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u30	I'm not twisting the Czech language. I'm absolutely sure of it. And I just want to point out that there are grammatical errors here. But on the other hand, I could suggest some kind of factual adjustment, you said. Do I read the Rules of Procedure? But I think in that twelve, part one, Article 1, point 56 is, "56. In Section 87, at the end of paragraph 2, the period is replaced by a comma.' No, I didn't mean to. Where was that? I'll find it right away. I'm sorry. Wait a minute. Could you please read me the provisions of the Rules of Procedure once more, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u31	I was just pointing him out. It is not my duty to anyone who has been given a word, to say what is and is not. I have pointed this out, given that I have led you to the point, and it is your business if you know the press 731/5, which has been distributed in time to all Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u32	I know, that's why I said please, that's why I asked you, and that's why I didn't give you any orders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u33	And I have asked you very politely several times if you want to use obstruction to at least give her a hint of parliamentary negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u34	Okay. I will therefore comment on the fact that, in this reasoning, the issue of invasive non-originating species of plants and animals needs to be dealt with systematically, and therefore the appellant welcomes this amendment as a whole. I welcome her, too, of course, because these invasive species are a big problem. But a significant deficiency is seen in the fact that the proposal does not include a so-called national list of invasive species, which is true, because we really need a national list of invasive species as salt. We need a National List of Invasive Species, which in this case could be based on a list that I'm about to read to you right now. And I think he should fill in. Just a moment, please, before the local wi-fi works. That I wouldn't have it here? Yes. This list should be exactly here, I think, called the Catalogue of Biotopes of the Czech Republic. Everything that's not in that catalogue should be eliminated. It's really good literature, there's a quote from Mr. Chytrý, Kučera, kočí, Grulich. There is a team of authors Mr. Chytrý, Tomáš Kučera, Kočí, Grulich, Lustyk. The authors of the text are Mr. Chytrý, Kučera, Kočí, Šumberová, Sádlo, Neuhäuslová. That's all the capacity in the industry. To know what their education is, it is the Faculty of Science of Masaryk University Brno, Faculty of Science of the University of South Bohemia České Budějovice, Moravský Lačnov, Svitavy, Botanical Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, Faculty of Environment of the Czech Agricultural University Prague. That's all the capacity in the industry. Moravian Museum Brno, Institute for Forest Treatment, Brandýs nad Labem, Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic. There are also beautiful pictures in this publication, such as Mr. Balák, Boublík or Brabec. But I'm not really going to read that, because it doesn't exactly match the negotiations today, of course, even though it's really the quality of the written literature that has several chapters. Maybe an explanatory note to describe the biotope. I will read it so that we know that this is really part of the amendment. I'll pass on the introduction. And that I'd go right to thank you? I don't think so. So: "The biotope catalogue is a guide" - which I think should be an integral part of this amendment - which defines the units used for the mapping of biotopes in the Czech Republic. Its first edition, Chytrý et al., 2001, was created on the initiative of the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic, AOPK ČR, which was responsible for preparing the documentation for the creation of the national design of the European major Natura 2000 sites. These sites are to be defined by the Member States of the European Union in accordance with Directive 92/43/EEC, on the conservation of natural habitats and of wild fauna and flora, 1992. One of the most important criteria for defining these territories is the presence of selected biotopes" - and now listen - "this means the so-called habitat types, which are specifically mentioned in this Directive and whose definition is mainly based on the phytocenological Zurich-montpellier classification of vegetation. At the same time, the directive requires regular monitoring of changes in the status of those biotopes not only in Natura 2000 areas but throughout the national territory. This obligation is ensured by the Czech AOPK. In the Czech Republic, 60 types of Natura 2000 natural habitats have been identified, 19 of which are called priority habitats. However, the catalogue of biotopes of the Czech Republic already included all types of biotopes of our territory in the first edition, in order to enable a complete conservation inventory regardless of whether or not individual biotopes are included in European directives." Jesus, I turned it off. Many have changed since the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue." That's important. "Under the methodological guidance of the AOPK CR, there was extensive mapping of biotopes throughout the territory of the Czech Republic, which used the Biotope Catalogue as a basic guide and mapping legend, Guth, 2006, Guth & Kučera, 2006, Härtel et al., 2009. The first, basic mapping took place between 2001 and 2004 with the participation of several hundred field mappers and its results were summarized in the so-called layer of biotope mapping, i.e. the database in the geographic information system containing basic data on biotopes and their expansion in the Czech Republic. In 2005, the results of the basic mapping were expertly assessed and corrected, so-called rectifications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u35	Mr. Ambassador, you're forcing me to apply § 59 para. 4, and this time I draw your attention explicitly, that if the President, who will take over the chair of the meeting after me, has to remind you again to speak to the point, he is entitled to withdraw your word. Again, I have warned you several times very politely to speak to the point, and at this point we are really out of the scope of the amendments, and even beyond the scope of the third reading debate. So it's a notice under § 59 para. 4. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u36	Thank you, Mr President. You know what always happens when someone turns off my mic. "In 2005 the results of the basic mapping were expertly assessed and corrected, the so-called rectifications, and in 2006 used to process the evaluation report for the European Commission, Dušek et al., 2007. Since 2006, so-called updates of the biotope mapping layer have been under way, where approximately one twelfth of the territory of the Czech Republic is re-mapped every year due to the above-mentioned need for nationwide monitoring of biotope status. This will gradually update the biotope mapping layer depending on changes in the landscape biotopes and at the same time correct errors arising from the first mapping, Härtel et al., 2009. Compared to the first mapping, the update is more focused on evaluating the degradation of biotopes, their structures and functions and on the evaluation of typical species, Lustyk & Guth, 2008. Since 2008, biotopes have been monitored on permanent areas, the number of which exceeds two thousand in the Czech Republic. Monitoring aims to monitor long-term changes in biotopes, in particular those that cannot be detected by updating the biotope mapping layer. Thanks to the mapping of biotopes including updates, knowledge of diversity, expansion and status of biotopes on our territory has been greatly improved. The Czech Republic thus obtained one of the best national biotope data files in European and global comparison. At the same time, a group of experts specialized in the diversity and mapping of biotopes was established, who today make a significant contribution to the general knowledge of our nature not only by routine field mapping but also by expert contributions, Kučera & Navrátilová, 2006. The results of the update have become a necessary basis in the practical conservation of nature, among others. the technical justification for the definition of territorial ecological stability systems. The international environment for Czech nature protection and Natura 2000 system has also changed. The accession negotiations with the new Member States of the European Union discussed and approved certain additions to the list of natural habitat types in Annex I to Directive 92/43/EEC which were not taken into account in the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue. Thanks to the accession of the European Union" - Sorry - "Czech Republic to the European Union in 2004" - oh yeah - "our conservation of nature was fully focused on the introduction of the Natura 2000 system and no similar Emerald system was implemented, intended for the Member States of the Council of Europe, which are not members of the European Union. It has also been constantly changing and refined by the European system for the classification of EUNIS biotopes, which develops as a basis for the classification of biotopes by the European Environment Agency. Since the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue, the phytocenological classification of Czech vegetation has also improved significantly. Synthetic survey of forest, Husová et al., 2002, Neuhäuslová, 2003, grass and bushes, Smart, 2007b, synontropic, rock and rubble, Smart, 2009, and water and wetland, Smart, 2011 vegetation, which provide a technical basis for defining biotopes and deeper knowledge of their diversity, ecology, enlargement and dynamics. The second edition of the Catalogue of Biotopes of the Czech Republic reflects these changes, while maintaining the briefness and clear structure that was the basis for the success of the first edition. The catalogue is not intended..." Foldyna, get out! [[Mr. Foldyna was standing in front of the speaker's desk.]] "The catalogue is not only intended for specialists for which it defines the basic -"
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u37	Mr. Ambassador, this is no way to challenge your colleagues. You are to do this through the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u38	Through the President, Foldyna, leave!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u39	No, that's disrespectful! You're crossing the line of decency. I remind you according to the relevant section of the Rules of Procedure. Continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u40	Okay, thank you. I am sorry, Jarda, through Mr President. "The catalogue is not only intended for specialists for which it defines the basic filling of units used in biotope mapping. It also serves the wider public as a source of information about biotopes differentiated and mapped on our territory. For this reason, technical comments on biotope mapping were deleted from the second edition of the Biotope Catalogue, which is of relevance only to biotope mapping experts in practice. These notes will be concentrated and detailed in the upcoming Biotope Evaluation Manual, which will follow up on the second edition of the Biotope Catalogue and contain detailed guidelines to define biotopes in special cases. The main differences in the second edition of the Biotope Catalogue compared to the first edition are more accurate maps of the extension of individual biotopes based on critically revised biotope mapping results. Secondly, supplementing the estimation of the area of individual biotopes in our territory according to the results of the biotope mapping. Thirdly, revised lists of species typical for individual biotopes resulting from statistical analysis of the Czech National Phytocenological Database and its expert revision. Fourthly, more detailed remarks on the threat and management of biotopes. Fifthly, more precise definition of biotopes by transfer to newly introduced and revised phytocenological units. Sixth, updating transfers of Czech biotopes to natural habitat types according to the Habitats Directive and to the current version of the European Biotope Classification System EUNIS. And seven, adding current literary springs to individual biotopes. In contrast to the first edition, technical notes on mapping, biotope conversions to the classification of Emerald biotopes, which are no longer up to date for Czech nature protection, as well as transfers to geobiotic classification and physiotypes, which have been used very limitedly and in the case of" - I will not read it again - "classifications have sometimes led to certain interpretation problems. However, the classification of biotopes used in the second edition of the catalogue does not change due to continuity compared to the first edition, except for the integration of the X10 and X11 biotope into the X10 Forest Paseka and Shavings. Except for this exception, the names and codes of the biotopes remain unchanged. In order to maintain the transferability of the Czech biotope system to the habitat system in the Natura 2000 system, which has changed somewhat since the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue of the Czech Republic, some subunites have been added or their definition has been partially modified. Subunites originally introduced to convert our national biotope system into the Emerald system have also been left to maintain the continuity of biotope mapping. However, subunites have been released in the L2.2 and L2.3 marine biotopes. Purpose and content of the Biotope Catalogue. The classification system of the Catalogue of Biotopes of the Czech Republic was designed to respect professional aspects as much as possible, reflecting the variability of Czech nature and at the same time being easily transferable to Natura 2000 types of natural habitats, the definition of which in some cases is the result of political agreements rather than scientific arguments. [[11.10 hours]] Due to this compromise, some of the solutions used in the catalogue deviate from the Czech phytocenological tradition, or the scope of the concept of units is different in different groups of biotopes. On the other hand, taking into account the phytocenological classification suitable for the territory of the Czech Republic in many cases has led to the fact that the Natura 2000 habitat types are not simply transferable to one to one units of the catalogue. The catalogue includes biotopes that are traditionally the subject of conservation, i.e. parts of the world usually understood" - no, no, that is, "part of the world generally understood by the public as nature. Other biotopes, such as urbanized areas, field and forest cultures or ruderal vegetation, are included in addition to the landscape so that the landscape can be mapped all over the country. Such biotopes may be linked to the presence of endangered organisms, but the conservation of nature in the present concept is difficult to implement here. Also, biotopes that cannot be defined phytocenologically, with the exception of two units included in Natura 2000 or Emerald systems, namely cave and gravel flooding without vegetation, have not been processed in the catalogue. We tried to include in the catalogue of biotopes all phytocenologically definable biotopes falling within the said nature definition that occur in the Czech Republic. While many of them are not subject to Natura 2000 protection, they are rare or endangered by national considerations, or especially protected species, and therefore deserve full protection. An important goal in drawing up the catalogue was to create descriptions of classification units understandable to the wider scientific public, i.e. even outside a relatively narrow range of specialists - phytocenologists. However, the necessary prerequisite for understanding and practical use of the catalogue is good knowledge of plant species of our flora, especially vascular plants, and for some biotopes also more common mechorosts, especially for springs and peatlands, or bushes and lichens. The catalogue should therefore be well understood by professional and amateur botanists, botanists and many other graduates or faculty students of natural sciences, pedagogical, forestry, agronomic and environment. In order to facilitate orientation in the proposed biotope system for those professionals who are used to working with the classification system of phytocenology or forestry typology, detailed transfers were included in the catalogue. However, due to the diversity of these classification systems, transfers could not always be completely accurate or unambiguous and have only an auxiliary character. If the user encounters ambiguity or contradictions between the description of the biotope and the transfer to one of those systems, the description of the biotope in the catalogue text must be considered decisive. Expanding and additional information about the biotopes of the Czech Republic beyond the catalogue can be found especially in Phytocenological units overviews, Moravec et al., 1995, 2000, Moravec, 1998, Husová et al., 2002, Neuhäuslová" - I hope I read it correctly - "2003, Chytrý, 2007b, 2009, 2011). In Geobotanic Maps Mirkyška et al., 1968, Neuhäuslová et al., 1998. In the publications and management of vegetation Michal N Petříček, 1999, Petříček, 1999, Háková, 2003. In May of the Czech Republic Hejný and Slavík, 1988 et seq., in Klíč for May of the Czech Republic Kubát et al., 2002, and in the book Biogeographical breakdown of the Czech Republic Culek, 1996. Terminological note - biotope, natural habitat and natural habitat. The catalogue mainly processes biotopes defined by the growing types of plant communities, but because of the connection to the Natura 2000 system, classification units defined by abiotically were included in the system.' I don't think I can do that. "The units of similar nature typing systems in Central Europe are traditionally referred to as biotopes, Pott, 1996, Sádlo & Storch, 2000, Essl et al., 2002, Stanová & Valachovič, 2002. However, in the slang of European conservation officials, the term biotope is used rather for the designation of a particular natural territory and Directive 92/43/EC introduces the term natural habitat for nature typing units in English, in short a habitat. Natural habitat was translated into Czech legislation as a natural habitat, which is inappropriate, however, because in botanicals and forestry the term habitat is commonly used for a set of most abiotic conditions in which plant communities occur. The site is mainly land and climate, but not the community itself. On the contrary, natural habitat under the directive means mainly plant communities, of course in the context of their abiotic conditions and the downstream community of heterotrophic organisms. Thus, the translator of the directive attributed the word habitat to a different content from normal use. Botanists or foresters engaged in the Natura 2000 system are therefore forced to use this term in two different meanings. In order to avoid misunderstandings, a range of Czech experts dealing with the Natura 2000 system usually uses the term habitat in Czech for those biotopes that are subject to protection in the Natura 2000 system. [[Härtel et al., 2009]] However, following the Czech legislative texts, natural habitats and priority habitats are used in the biotope catalogue in all cases where there is legislative continuity. On the contrary, the date of the site in the original botanical-forestry meaning was removed from the text of the catalogue in order to avoid possible misunderstandings. This solution is a necessary compromise to fulfil the basic purpose of this guide, i.e. to ensure the protection of Czech nature by European legislation." We can't even protect nature ourselves anymore. "The terminology used in the biotope catalogue can therefore be summarised simply as follows: The basic classification unit is referred to as the biotope in accordance with the Central European tradition. Certain biotopes or their groups, or parts thereof, are subject to Natura 2000 protection. These biotopes are equal to the types of natural habitats in legislative terminology and are also informally referred to as habitats. The second edition of the catalogue of biotopes of the Czech Republic was based on the initiative of Deputy Director of the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic Michael Hošek. It includes the classification of biotopes and the edited texts of the first part, which resulted from numerous discussions with a number of experts and field maplers, namely mentioned in the first edition. In addition, the second edition contains data on enlargement and other experience from field mapping of biotopes, which are the result of the work of several hundred experts. Based on an analysis of the Czech National Phytocenological Database Ilona Knollová with technical support of Lubomír Tichý, she prepared background data for the determination of typical species of individual biotypes. Data on the occurrence of mechoros and lichens in biotopes were supplemented and thoroughly reviewed by Svatava Kubešová and Jana Kocourková. The conversions of forest biotopes to forestry typology units were taken from the first edition for which it was prepared by Jaromír Macků in cooperation with Tomáš Vrška and the typology of the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests. [[11.20 hours]] In addition, Jaromír Macků added new transfers for alpine, subalpine and some spring and peat habitats. Maps of biotope expansion were technically processed by Lucie Poláková. Ivan Balák from the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic, Single Record of Speleological Objects, provided supporting documents for the S3 Biotope Map. Tereza Králová and Veronika Oušková from the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscape of the Czech Republic as a representative of the project's contracting authority provided comprehensive assistance during the preparation of the second edition. It's quiet here, like you're waiting for the end. The manuscript of the second edition of the Biotope Catalogue was detailed by experts with experience in the practical mapping of biotopes, in particular Libor Ekrt, Petr Filippov and Jan Košnar. Some data were added or revised by Magda Zmrhalová to the occurrence of Zmrhalová in biotopes and notes on the extension of selected biotopes to Českomoravské vrchoviny were added by Luděk Čech. Preparation of the Biotope Catalogue was financed by the Nature and Landscape Conservation Agency of the Czech Republic." This is the end of the introduction. "Explanatory notes to describe biotopes. Hierarchy of units. Biotopes listed in the Catalogue are divided into nine formation groups. The first eight groups are the subject of immediate interest in nature conservation and form the main part of the Catalogue. Watercourses and reservoirs, Wetlands and coastal vegetation, Springfield and peatland, Rocks, rubble and caves, Alpine Forests, Secondary Lawns and moors, Shrublands and Forests. The ninth group consists of biotopes strongly influenced or created by man, which were included due to the need for country mapping. Formation groups are identified in the following order by letters V, M, R, S, A, T, K, L and X; they are further divided into basic units of the classification of biotopes, which are defined at two hierarchical levels and referred to by numbers in conjunction with the letters of the formation groups, such as T3 or T3.4. In some cases subunites, marked at the end of the unit code, such as V1C or T3,4B, have also been added. These were used if a further breakdown of the unit was necessary to secure its transfer to Natura 2000 natural habitat types and initially to the Emerald system, but in terms of professional classification it was either not very appropriate or would lead to the definition of very closely conceived units. It is therefore necessary to use mapping units or sub-units at the lowest possible hierarchical level when mapping for Natura 2000 purposes. [[Total 173 units and subunites]] For other purposes sub-units may not be used and operated only with basic units. [[e.g. T3,4B]] In that case, 140 units are distinguished. Name. The biotope names were chosen as a compromise between clarity for the lay public, precision and Czech geobotanical tradition. Therefore, some names are defined by plant species, other ecological, physiognomic or phytogeographic characteristics. As a general rule, these are not translations of official Natura 2000 habitat types. Each unit shall be identified by a code consisting of the letter form code and the unit code number or, where applicable, another subunit code number.'; [[Members are torn out of the O.R.]] I wouldn't go anywhere. "Czech biotope names are supplemented by English translations, which should facilitate communication with foreign countries. The biotope names in the second edition of the Catalogue coincide with the names given in the first edition. Natura 2000. The four-digit code of the natural habitat type and its official name in the Natura 2000 system. For priority habitats, there is an asterisk between the code and the name. The line is crossed out if the biotope is not included among Natura 2000 habitat types. For some units there may be a substantive contradiction between the Czech name of the biotope and the name of the Natura 2000 natural habitat type because the names used in Natura 2000 are in some cases somewhat misleading and do not reflect the exact contents of the unit. However, the conversion of the Natura 2000 habitat types to the Catalog biotopes corresponds to the definition in the European Interpretation Manual for Natura 2000 natural habitat types, European Commission, 2007. Their Czech translations are summarised in Tables 1 and 2, p. 364 to 384). Where the definition of the Natura 2000 habitat type is wider than that of the relevant biotope, references to other biotopes, with which the natural habitat type also overlaps, are given. CORINE. Code number and name of the corresponding unit in the classification of CORINE biotopes, Commission of European Communities, 1991. During the transfer a unit was selected from the CORINE hierarchy at the lowest possible transferable level. The line is crossed out if the biotope does not have an equivalent equivalent in this classification. In some cases where the CORINE classification defines the biotope in two ways, both by abiotic factors and by vegetation, transfers to two units are given. Fire. Hab. Code number and name of the corresponding unit according to the Palearctic Classification of Biotopes, Devillers & Devillers-Terschuren, 1996. The conversion is made to the lowest transferable hierarchical level of the Palearctic classification. The line is crossed out if the biotope does not have an equivalent equivalent in the Palearctic classification. In some cases where the Palearctic classification defines the biotope in two ways, both by abiotic factors and by vegetation, transfers to two units are given. EUNIS. Code and name of the corresponding unit in the European classification of EUNIS biotopes, version June 2010, http://eunis.eea.europa.eu/habitats.jsp. The line is crossed out if the biotope does not have an equivalent in this classification. If the EUNIS classification defines the biotope in two ways, both by abiotic factors and by vegetation, the biotope is converted into two units. Phytocenology. The corresponding associations and associations of phytocenological - syntaxonomic - system are listed. For non-forest vegetation, their definition, nomenclature and codes are governed according to the first three parts of the monograph Vegetation of the Czech Republic, Smart, 2007b, 2009, 2011. For forest vegetation, the definition and nomenclature of phytocenological units corresponds mainly to the latest survey work, Moravec, 1998, Moravec et al., 2000, Husová et al., 2002, Neuhäuslová, 2004, Douda, 2008, for bush vegetation by Moravec et al., 1995, and Kolbek et al., 2003. If the biotope includes only some associations of a particular association, references to biotopes covering other associations of that association are provided. Potential vegetation. The article contains a unit of potential natural vegetation used in the Map of potential natural vegetation of the Czech Republic, Neuhäuslová et al., 1997, 1998, if its filling is identical or predominantly identical to the specified biotope. This paragraph is released for biotopes replacement vegetation and biotopes natural vegetation which have not been included in the Map of potential natural vegetation due to its small occurrence. [[11.30 hours]] Forestry typology. For forest, alpine, subalpine and some spring and peat biotopes there is a transfer to the work version of the single typological system of the Institute for the Economic Treatment of Forests in Brandýs nad Labem from 2010. The extension unit of this system is a set of forest types, coded by the number mark of the forest growing grade and by the letter label of the ephaphical category, W - basic; rounded line: V - wet, O - fresh ogleyed, P - sour ogleyed, Q - poor ogleyed; watered row: T - poor watered, G - soaked; peat line: R - peat; [[1st oak, 2nd bucodubic, 3rd oak, 4th beech, 5th fir, 6th spruce, 7th bucodubic, 8th spruce, 9th klečovic]] [[(extreme line: X - xerothermic, Z - dwarf, Y - skeleton, J - suture; exposed row: N - rocky acid, F - rocky fresh, A - acerous rocky, C - dried; sour row: M - poor, I - supple sour, K - sour; fertile line: S - fresh, H - clay, B - rich, D - enriched (aluminium acerous)]] [[Lime]] [[medium-rich]] [[medium-rich]] Linger line: L - Linger line, U - Linger line). For example, code 4F denotes a set of forest types of slope beech. The forest types are further divided into basic units called forest types, which are most commonly named by the dominant species of undergrowth or the significant ecological factor of the soil environment. The forest type code consists of a forest type file code supplemented by a forest type number within one of the so-called natural forest areas. For example, code 4F1 refers to the forest type of a slope beech ferdin, whose name may be extended by a significant sign of an abiotic environment, such as ravine. If only some forest types are included in a given biotope, their extract is added. If the conversion of the biotope to a specific forest type or set of forest types applies only within a natural forest area, the number of the area following the abbreviation PLO shall be given. If the biotope includes a set of forest types only partially, there are references to other biotopes that also partly correspond to this set of forest types" - if doctors could step out of medical petitions here, we would not have to read about structure and species composition now. "Structure and species composition. The paragraph provides information on the structure of crops, dominant, diagnostic and other plant species commonly present in the biotope. The Scientific and Czech Nomenclature of Plants is unified according to the Key to May of the Czech Republic, Kubát et al., 2002; except for species" - which I will not read - "Marhold, Hroudová, Zákravský & Hroudová, which is listed in Klíč as the stable crossbreed of B. yagara × B. koshewnikowii), standard national lists of mechoros, Kučera & Váňa, 2005, and lichens, Liška et al. 2009" - I have a lot of literature prepared until doctors come out of medical petitions - "Czech names of lichens according to various sources, Maloch, 1913, Svrček, et al. 1976, Kremer & Muhle, 1998, and the scientific name of the cockroaches according to the work Süßwasserflora von Mitteleuropa, Kraus, 1997. If the Czech names of some species of non-core plants have not been found in the available literature, only the Czech family name is given. If some more difficult to identify species are understood including species closely related, species aggregates are listed according to the definition in Klíč for May of the Czech Republic; [[agg.]] if the corresponding aggregate is not defined in the Klíč or the non-created plants, the Latin abbreviation s. l. is given after the scientific name of the species. [[= Sensu lato, in a broader sense]] Ecology. Characteristic of the habitat in the traditional botanical and forestry sense, this is a description of ecological factors creating the environment of the plant community, especially soil and climate. The paragraph also mentions the effects of a person who creates or maintains a biotope." I suppose all the Members who want to know the truth will join me. "Extension. Brief description of the extension of the biotope to the territory of the Czech Republic." Members in particular who claim to be patriots. "Danger and management. An overview of the main factors currently threatening the biotope and one-off interventions and repeated activities that are necessary to preserve the structure and biodiversity of the biotope. For a more detailed description of the protectionist management of vegetation types, we refer to special publications, Míchal & Petříček, 1999, Petříček, 1999, Háková, 2003." Because if it takes 19, I think the doctors here would be heard very quickly. "Speed combination. List of dominant, diagnostic and other plant species with a more abundant occurrence in a given biotope." [[shortcut Dm]] [[shortcut Dg]] And that goes for those who think they're communists. "The species forming a substantial part of the biomass of the individual floors are considered to be dominant species. Types of diagnostic are species occurring mainly in a given biotope, while in most other biotopes they are rare or missing. The nomenclature of species is unified according to the standard manuals set out in the Explanatory Notes to paragraph Structure and species composition. Lists of species were significantly revised against the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue, based on statistical analysis of the Czech National Phytocenological Database according to the methodology described in the publication Chytrý & Tichý, 2003. Outputs from statistical analysis were expertly assessed and edited by Catalog editors and authors of individual chapters. Lists do not include neophytes, i.e. species introduced into our territory in the modern era" - even then it was a problem - "Pyšek et al., 2002, because their occurrence is seen as a sign of degradation in protectively important biotopes. More significant invasion neophytes are mentioned in section Threat and management. Literature. Main literary sources describing a given biotope in the territory of the Czech Republic. The most recent synthetic work on the diversity of vegetation of individual biotopes in the Czech Republic or its larger regions is mentioned. If there are quality synthetic work on the diversity of widely distributed biotopes, regional studies are not all quoted at the same time, except for those whose significance exceeds a mere regional description. On the contrary, for rare biotopes, work from smaller areas specially focused on a given biotope is also quoted. Publications published by the press have been preferred; manuscripts or older works are quoted only in case of lack of newer publications. The individual biotopes do not contain publications relating to territories beyond the borders of the Czech Republic, but useful information about our biotopes can also be obtained in publications from neighbouring countries, mainly in collective monographs and manuals (Oberdorfer, 1977 to 1992, Mucina et al., 1993, Pott, 1995, 1996, Dierschke, 1996 et seq., Valachovič et al., 1995, Ssymank et al., 1998, Schubert et al., 2001, Valachovich, 2001, Stanová & Valachovič, 2002, Borhidi, 2003 - [[11.40 hours]] Janišová, 2007, Willner & Valachovič, 2007, Matuszkiewicz, 2007, Willner & Grabherr, 2007, Jarolímek & Šibík 2008). In the literature list at the end of the Catalogue, magazine names are shortened according to the works of Botanico-Periodium-Huntianum, Lawrence et al., 1968, and its additions. Maps of spread. The publication included network maps of extension of biotopes processed in a standard network for mapping Central European flora and fauna, whose base fields were divided into quarters and have a size of 5 × 3 geographical minutes, i.e. approximately 6 × 5,5 km. The data in the maps come mainly from the so-called layer of biotope mapping obtained by field mapping between 2001 and 2004, supplemented by data from updates until 2008. [[Härtel et al., 2009.]] For most biotopes, data from the biotope mapping layer were supplemented with sites of phytocenological images of relevant biotopes registered between 1991 and 2009 and stored in the Czech National Phytocenological Database, Smart & Rafajová, 2003. Maps have been revised by editors and authors of the Biotope Catalogue, while incorrect or questionable occurrences have been excluded. Biotope map S3 The cave was created according to documents Uniform registration of speleological buildings of the Agency for Nature and Landscape Conservation of the Czech Republic. While the maps published in the first edition of the Biotope Catalogue were the first ever attempt at at least an approximate mapping of the expansion of individual biotopes on our territory, based on scattered data from various sources available ten years ago, the maps in the second edition are much more accurate, complete and reliable. However, there is a significant difference between maps in the second edition of the Biotope Catalogue and detailed maps in the monograph Vegetation of the Czech Republic, Smart, 2007b, 2009, 2011. Maps in the biotope category generally capture wider extensions, as they also contain undefined, not typical, transient and fragmentary occurrences of the biotope; it cannot be excluded that in some cases the dot in the map is also the result of incorrect determination of the biotope in the field or subjective understanding of the biotope boundaries of specific mappings. In particular for forest crops with plantings of non-originating trees, there was a tendency for certain mappings, contrary to the mapping methodology, to plot biotope maps corresponding to potential vegetation, Neuhäuslová et al., 1997, 1998. If there have been more than one occurrence in some maps, which is unlikely to belong to a given biotope according to its definition in the catalogue, but cannot be corrected without field revision, this is mentioned in map descriptions. Unlike the maps in the Biotope Catalogue, the maps in the Vegetation of the Czech Republic are much more conservative because they only capture locations where the phytocenological image was written exactly corresponding to the given vegetation. They are therefore more reliable, but at the cost of a gaping and incomplete display of real enlargement. Maps in both publications also differ in the captured time period. Maps in the Biotope Catalogue show the expansion of biotopes only in the period after 2000, with some additions from 1991 to 2000, while the maps in the Vegetation of the Czech Republic show historical expansion since the 1920s. Biotope area data. The map labels provide data on the approximate total area of each biotope in the territory of the Czech Republic obtained from the biotope mapping layer supplemented by data from updates until 2008. The total area of all surveyed segments of biotopes including the X-group biotopes is 21 958 km2, i.e. just over a quarter of the area of the Czech Republic. It is therefore possible that the area of some biotopes is slightly smaller than in reality, but this error is probably not large, because only natural biotopes have been selected to map the landscape globally, while only natural biotopes have been selected in areas with excess of the X-group biotopes. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters. Structure and species composition. Vegetation submerged or at the surface of floating aquatic plants, rooted or unrooted in the bottom substrate. Submersion - submerged - a layer of vegetation can be made up of species with leaves divided into fine cuts, such as submersum, broad-leaved and narrow-leaved roses, such as crispus, and other submerged plants with whole leaves, such as Elodesa. Water levels are more or less coherently covered by fissure plants, such as Lemna and polyrhiza species, and rarely water ferns natans. Other macrophytes unrooted or only partially rooted in the bottom are Hydrocharis and very rarely aloides. Many species rooted in the organo-mineral substrate of the bottom with leaves floating on the surface, especially lutea, alba, natans, rarely also pumila, peltata and Trapa natans, are applied. Most species hate the drying of water in the tank and therefore do not form different forms, depending on the depth of water. Biotope includes several vegetation types with different phytocenological affiliations, but in nature they form a series of successive crops and form one functional whole. Individual crops often have one strong dominant and are species poor. Vegetation is mainly variable depending on the depth of water and the nature of the bottom, but it also undergoes significant changes during one growing season. For example, slower growing species that grow in early summer may later be replaced by macrophytes with rapid biomass formation at higher temperatures, but this does not usually occur in cold and rainy years. The year-on-year changes in macrophyte vegetation on one site are also affected by the type of farming, in ponds, for example by changing the fish population, summering and wintering. The state without any water macrophytes can alternate with rich aquatic plant crops. Most species have a wide amplitude in relation to environmental welfare and their crops can be found in eutrophic and mesotrophic waters. Vegetation with Nupharm pumila, Nymphaea candida and Potamogeton alpinus is strongly linked to mesotrophic to slightly dystrophic waters. Ecology. Naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic, rarer oligotrophic or mildly dystrophic standing waters of lowland and hilltops, rarer even under mountain to mountain level. It is mainly dead shoulders of rivers, a pool, partly also a habitat created by the activity of man, e.g. Ponds, flooded sandstones, quarrys, mining pits and other shallow waters. The water regime is more balanced than the V2 biotope, the periodic drying does not occur either at all or only exceptionally. The mineral substrate at the bottom, such as gravel, clay or sand, is often covered with a thick layer of organic mud and undissolved waste, indicating a more advanced phase of the grounding process. Expansion. Multiplely all over the Czech Republic, more abundantly in the lower river basins, mainly Ohře, Berounky, Vltava, Labe, Otava, Lužnice, Sázavy, Orlice, Dyje, Moravia and Odry, and in the pond areas of western and southern Bohemia, Bohemian Mountains and elsewhere. Some types of vegetation occur only in certain regions. For example. Arrrhiza is known only from southern Moravia and pumila from Šumava and Českomoravské vrchoviny. [[11.50 hours]] Threats and management. In the river basins, this vegetation is threatened by the direct destruction of shallow waters and water treatment. The reduction of natural floods led to faster grounding, drying of dead shoulders and pools, and accumulation of excess nutrients in bottom sediments. Only the most resilient macrophytes survive in this environment. The introduction of herbivorous white amura also contributed to the retreat of macrophyte vegetation in alluvius. In ponds, macrophyte vegetation is mainly limited by the high population of the market carp, which whirls mud in search of food and undermines underground bodies of rooted aquatic plants. Even the excess of phytoplankton reduces the transparency of water. Mass recreation, breeding of water birds and other factors causing eutrophication of the habitat and strong mechanical disturbance of vegetation are also unfavorable. Sensitive species have disappeared from many locations. On the contrary, deliberate plantings of rarer and conspicuous macrophytes often occur from material of unclear origin. Common non-originating species include Elodesa canadensis. Appropriate management includes sensitive revitalization of river plains, removal of deep sediments from the day of the tanks and reduction of species with large biomass. In ponds it is appropriate to occasionally reduce water level, which allows the recovery of species of germs on a wet exposed substrate. Changing the soil or handle and the market carp is suitable. Although vegetation does not develop in the market fish phase, competitively strong species and organic muddying of the tank are limited. For persistent species sensitive to root system disruption, the prevailing breeding of the pulsation is more appropriate. Vegetation with species of oligotrophic to mesotrophic waters, such as candida and pumila, usually requires fertilization and lime. Populations of some species are restored by repatriation. In like Watercourses and Tanks. Subunites. V1A. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters with a voďan frog. Naturally eutrophic waters and (s) voďánka frogs. The subunit mainly houses standing alluvial waters in a more advanced stage of grounding, but its occurrence at the locality is often ephemeral. It is found in lowlands and hills, more often in the Czech Republic, in central Polabí, lower Poorlicí, in Třeboň and in lower Podyjí and Pomoraví. V1B. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters with a sawdust cutter. Naturally eutrophic waters with a dominant sawdust cutter. This vegetation develops in shallow alluvial waters that do not dry out in the summer. At the bottom of the tanks is a medium deep layer of organic mud. This vegetation is disappearing from the waters with excessive organic mud. In the past, polilists' cutting plants existed in the lower Podyjí and Pomoraví, but from where they disappeared in the second half of the 20th century. In some places, such as the area of the confluence of Moravia and Dyje, they have been restored by the cessation of autochthonous material held in culture. It is currently spontaneously spreading. The incidences in southern Bohemia probably come from plantings, the same certainly applies to all other locations outside of South Moravia. V1C. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters with a southern or general bubble. The subunit includes plants with a dominant bubble southern or rarely with a bubble common. Both dominant species vary significantly in their ecological challenges. The vegetation with a bubble bubble settles slightly acidic to neutral mesotrophic to eutrophic waters in the lowlands up to the foothills, such as extensively used ponds, semi-grounded sandstones and dead shoulders. It is quite abundant in the West Bohemian pond basins, in Třeboň, Českolipsko and Českomoravské vrchoviny. The Utricularia vulgaris is bound to shallow water rich in carbonates with neutral to slightly basal pH. At present, only a few of the alluvial pools in Central Polabí are known to us. V1D. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters with non-butterfly floating. Macrophyte vegetation of plants floating freely on the water surface with the presence of a non-puncture floating. In our country, this vegetation occurs mainly in natural eutrophic waters of extensively managed ponds, but also in alluvial waters and meliaration channels. Natural and stable occurrence is known only from the Ostrava Basin. However, the growths of plantings appear temporarily in the lowlands and hills and elsewhere. V1E. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters with aldrovandum bladder. The subunit includes plants with dominant aldrovand bladder, which are mostly developed in shallow mesotrophic pools and at the edges of larger water tanks, often in mosaics with reeds. This vegetation has rarely occurred in the past in Ostrava, where it disappeared in the middle of the 20th century. Currently existing crops on several locations in Třeboň. So at present there are crops on several sites in Třeboň and Českolipsko, and these were created by planting plants from Poland. After successful stabilisation, local spread of the species, such as water birds, and the emergence of other sites is not excluded. V1F. Macrophyte vegetation naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters, crops without species characteristic of V1A-V1E. This unit includes macrophyte vegetation which cannot be assigned to subunit V1A-V1E. They are either species-richer macrophytes without significant dominants or species-poor, often single-species crops with the supremacy of some less common macrophyte species. The growths in which the common species of water macrophytes dominate and the more valuable species are missing are classified as V1G units. V1G. Macrophyte vegetation of naturally eutrophic and mesotrophic standing waters, crops without protectionistly significant water macrophytes. This subunit includes species-poor crops common, from a protective point of view few significant macrophytes at natural and semi-natural habitats such as dead shoulders, aluvian pools, ponds, semi-ground sandstones and other shallow standing waters with unpaved shores and days. It also includes natural waters, for example in aluviums, where macrophyte vegetation is not currently present. [[12.00 hours]] The development and sometimes the expansion of macrophyte crops typical of this subunit are supported by eutrophication. Where protectively valuable macrophytes occur at the same time, such vegetation should be restricted where necessary. The growths of all these typical species may also occur in artificial water tanks with concrete shores or bottoms and hypertrophic water that are included in the X14 biotope. Literature. Hejný & Husák, 1978, Černohous & Husák, 1986, Šumberová, 2007. Page 22 of 447. Macrophyte vegetation of shallow standing waters. Structure and species composition. Water vegetation with a single-layer to two-layered, rarely three-layered structure. In the layer of submerged plants, the lacquers or beggars usually prevail. The layer on the water surface is made up of soaring leaves of certain types of lacus trees, tiny leaf roses of stars and brittle plants. Sometimes a third layer is formed below the surface, formed by the upper parts of the flower-bearing vessels or by the protruded macrophytes. At the time of the flower, the plants with Batrachium paulidus species are striking with their colorful aspect. Most of the plants rooted in the bottom are amphibious and, depending on the depth of the water, they can create different forms, sometimes very different morphologically. The outer case is the forms of land that arise during the summer drying of the tank. Thanks to fluctuations in the height of the water column into this vegetation, species typical of other wet-row biotopes also penetrate into this vegetation. These include, for example, some mud plants in the terrestrial phase and one-year nitroophilic herbs, mainly from the families Bidens and Persia. Ecology. Shallow water reservoirs in the lowlands and hills, more rarely up to the foothills, in particular, an alluvial pool and dead shoulders, shallow edge zones of ponds, sandboxes and moats. Water is naturally eutrophic, rarely mesotrophic; some types of vegetation have optimum in slightly salty waters. The bottom substrate is sandy, clayy or gravely, often with a layer of organoleptic mud. The height of the water column can vary significantly, in summer there is often a complete drying. Expansion. Throughout the territory of the Czech Republic, especially in southern and western Bohemia, on the Bohemian Moravian Highlands, in Polabí, Pomoraví and Poodorí. Threats and management. Biotope is threatened mainly by changes in water dynamics, especially in riverbanks. Watercourse regulations result in rapid grounding and long-term drying of shallow alluvial standing waters and their growing of competitively strong species, especially reeds and willows. Small water tanks are also often destroyed by landfills. The growth of more sensitive species in ponds may be threatened by cloudy water and high numbers of market carp. Locally, mass recreation can also have a negative effect on more sensitive species. The preservation of this vegetation in river plains can be supported by revitalizations; many species quickly regenerate, even in artificially constructed canals and pools. In ponds with crops of species requiring clear water is suitable breeding of fishland. Subunites. V2A Macrophytical vegetation of shallow standing waters, crops with dominant lacquers. Porosity of shallow waters with the dominance of the lacus, most often aquatile, trichophyllum. They occur in alluvial waters, sandstones and ponds in the lowlands and hills throughout the country and do not have special demands on the water chemistry substrate. Rare plants with dominant plants occur mainly in smaller ponds of the hottest parts of South Moravia and some areas of Central and Northwest Bohemia; they prefer brackish waters." [[The MP's pulling up a chair from the stenograph site and continuing to sit down.]] "This subunit includes plants with dominant Hottonia palustris. This vegetation is mainly linked to alluvial waters of natural and anthropogenic origin, such as pools, moats and semi-grounded sandstones. It is mainly expanded in Central Poohri, Českolipsko, Třeboňsko, Polabí, Pojizeří, Poorlickí, Lower and Central Pomoraví, Lower Podyjí and Poodorí, rarely in other lowlands and hills. V2C Macrophyte vegetation of some waters, other crops. The sub-unit includes shallow periodic waters without palustris species. Stars prevail, according to current knowledge mainly cophocarpa growing in smaller shaded ponds and pools throughout the country. Common species include hamulata, which is more common in running waters, but also settles shallow standing waters, such as small pools and puddles in the woods or grows in sunny moats, sewers and flooded depressions that prefer forest wetlands. In northern and western Bohemia, vegetation was recorded with Callitriche salariescarpa. Porosts with Callitriche herma..." - Baba - "are bound to water without significant fluctuations in the height of the water column and therefore belongs to the V1 unit. Literature. Hejný & Husák, 1978, Černohous & Husák, 1986, Šumberová, 211b. V3 Macrophyte vegetation of oligotrophic ponds and pools. Structure and species composition. Species poor vegetation of shallow peat pools with a simple vertical structure. Bubbles forming a submersible layer prevail in growths. A more or less continuous vegetation layer can be formed on the water surface where natans is applied, very rarely even polygonifolius. The floral vessels of these species rise above the water surface. There are also rarely scattered chantry and other species that have ecological optimum in other types of vegetation and affect the oligotrophic pools marginally. Other mosses, especially Augustes, are growing on acid substrates with pH of water between 3,0 and 5,0, while other mosses, especially on peat and water with higher pH, form an important component of peat vegetation. From vascular plants occur mainly in peat pools with acidic water, while the minor also interferes with neutral to slightly basic waters. Ecology. Tanks in peatlands on the edges of oligotrophic and dystrophous, sometimes mesotrophic water reservoirs, in the Czech Republic most often at the banks of ponds. Water may have a sour to neutral, rarely to slightly basal reaction, depending on the type of mineral substrate. In these waters there is more calcium, magnesium and other nutrients and less humic acid content than in Biotope R3.3. Expansion. Rarely in colder and humid areas of the Czech Republic. In recent years, this vegetation has been retreating strongly. Preserved crops can still be found in Chebs, Slavkovské les, Ore Mountains, Dokesko, Bohemian Paradise, Šumava, Třeboňsko, Českomoravské vrchovina and rarely elsewhere. [[12.10 hours]] V - Watercourses and tanks. Threats and management. Biotope is threatened mainly by drainage, often associated with the total drying of habitats, water eutrophication and the roll-up of peat edges of ponds. If a favourable water regime with a limited nutrient supply is maintained on the sites, management may be non-absorbed. Otherwise, it should aim to restore the original water regime. Management on ponds with this vegetation should be extensive. Rather than raising carp, which requires treatment of the environment by fertilizing and limening, it is appropriate to breed salmonids and other species of fish that withstand lower pH. The expansion of coastal vegetation at the expense of shallows with bubbles can be faced with mechanical removal. Structure and species composition. Single-layer to two-layered, species-poor crops of submerged or buoyant water plants spiced in the bottom. Horizontal distribution of vegetation and species composition depends on the strength and direction of the current. On the upper and middle streams of rivers with a rocky trough there are only a few species whose vegetative organs are very resistant to the effects of the flowing water. These include, in particular, a lacus tree, a blooming table, some water mosses and macrophyte algae. In smaller streams, hamulata usually prevails, very rarely also polygonifolius. In the slightly flowing waters of the lower rivers, even in the quieter sections of the medium flows, the spectrum of species is more varied; in general, there are the same species as in the standing waters. In addition to submersible plant species, plants with at least some leaves floating on the surface are also abundantly present. Even wild species are not missing in river silences. Swelling forms of some mud herbs are common. Despite the large number of species that may occur in this biotope, a homogeneous flow stretch of several hundred metres to several kilometres can be inhabited by only one species. The unit also includes flows where macrophyte vegetation is not present." [[Big noise in the hall.]] "Ecology. Medium to lower, rarer upper sections of rivers, streams, flowing channels and village strips. Smaller flows and shallows in large streams are usually characterised by well-developed macrophyte vegetation. On the contrary, some sections of large flows, such as places above the lakes and dams, are often free of any macrophyte vegetation due to deep water and lack of light. The waters on the upper sections of the flows are oligotrophic, sometimes dystrophous, brownish coloured with huminous substances. Water efficiency increases from the spring, so the water in the lower rivers is eutrophic, under the source of pollution, and hypertrophic. The bottom is rocky or gravely, on the lower streams with the deposits of fine grain sediments. The nature of the gout has a great influence on the species composition of vegetation. In places with more fine-grained substrates, plants are easier to root, but water transparency is aggravated by the removal of these sediments, which is unfavorable for submerged macrophytes. Therefore, for example, most flows in areas with Flysh sediments, which are also characterised by very uneven flow during the year, lack macrophyte vegetation. Expansion. Watercourses throughout the territory of the Czech Republic, from lowlands to mountains, continuously mainly in the streams of hills and mountains. The growths of some species are limited to smaller areas, such as vegetation with dominant Myriophyllum occurs only in Vltava from Lenory to České Budějovice and some other crops in the Ašské projezdku. Threats and management. Biotope is threatened mainly by water treatment, which undermines the natural dynamics of watercourses. It is mainly about the construction of lakes and dams and the deepening and levelling of riverbeds. After mechanical disruption or removal of the vegetation, most types of vegetation can regenerate, but this is often not possible due to the extinction of the site. By limiting the flow, temperature and trophic conditions also change in favour of faster growing species of warmer, richer water nutrients, while slow-growing species of oligomesotrophic waters disappear. However, the supply of surface water from fertilized land, waste water from settlements, etc. also contributes penetratingly to the increase of water trophy. Intensive shipping, including the mass operation of water sports, can also have a negative impact on flows with macrophytes. In some locations the non-originating water plague of Canada has spread. Management is ideally without intervention. Sensitive revitalization of river systems can help to expand macrophytic vegetation, in heavily polluted sections of streams building sewage treatment plants. Subunites. V4A Macrophytical vegetation of watercourses, vegetation of currently present water macrophytes. The subunit is covered by flow sections with any macrophyte vegetation, regardless of the growth of vascular plants, mechorosts or algae. Macrophyte cover can be very small. V4B Macrophyte vegetation of watercourses, habitats with potential occurrence of water macrophytes or with apparently natural or nature close to the nature of the trough. Vegetation of stumps. Structure and species composition. Submerged vegetation consisting of a dense intricate insole of macrophyte algae of the Chara, Nitella and Tolypella families caught with rhizoids in the bottom of mostly standing waters. Growths are often made up of only one species. These include high crops 1 to 2.5 metres in depths up to 5 metres, e.g. Chara hispida, both low crops 2 to 10 cm at depths of 0.2 to 1 metre, such as Nitella batrachosperma. More frequent dominant species are Chara braunii, hispida, glomerata. The growth of most species of antlers is rarely found at present. This is related to the ephemeral occurrence of many of them and still insufficient knowledge of their ecobiology. Some water macrophytes typical of other biotopes, especially Batrachium and Potamogeton species, also occur in the vegetation of the shallow waters. Ecology. Tanks, wells, slope springs, pools, deeper silences of flows, dead shoulders, ditches, flooded quarrys and sandstones, ponds and fish pits. Small crops of some species are also found in shallow puddles in fields, unpaved roads, and in lees of game. Sandy, gravely or rocky bottom usually overlaps with fine sapropels with a power of several centimeters. The depth of water varies from 5 cm to several meters. Water transparency is important for the occurrence of this vegetation. Some species also tolerate periodic drying. Drying and re-weak flooding of the site is often initiated by the oospora, so that the plants of the species Chara braunii or vulgaris usually appear in ponds shortly after summertime. Water has different chemisms, it can vary from oligotrophic to dystrophic to eutrophic in terms of nutrient content. Some species grow in slightly salty water. The occurrence of calcitrophic species in ponds may be conditional on their long-term liming. The species mainly linked to acidic water are Chara braunii or flexilis, species with a wide ecological amplitude in relation to water chemistry and substrate e.g. Chara globularis. [[12.20 hours]] Expansion. Porosts with Chara globularis and Nitella flexilis - probably went to Hogwarts both - occur scattered from the lowlands to the foothills throughout the Czech Republic. The brothels with Chara braunii are tied to smaller pubic ponds and fish garrisons and occur mainly in southern Bohemia and the Bohemian Moravian Highlands, also rarely in western and eastern Bohemia and in southern Moravia. Chara vulgaris is found in harder waters, especially in middle, northwest and eastern Bohemia and in southern and central Moravia. Chara hispida grows mainly in Polabí, rarely in northwestern Bohemia and South Moravia. The recent expansion of other stumps is mostly limited to only one area or a few locations. Threats and management. Parochial vegetation is often found in small water tanks without economic use, which are taken into consideration by waste, destroyed by construction or subject to competitively stronger species. Some habitats, such as pools in the complexes of the Polab moorings, have also been disrupted by changes in the water regime. In ponds, the parochial plants recede during higher fish population or water poultry farming. As a general rule, no management is necessary for the crops of abundant species, as new habitats are easily spread and quickly colonized in the landscape. Rare species can be supported by limiting the competitively stronger species and by more extensive farming in ponds, such as the use of selected sites for sport fishing or the rearing of salmonid fish, carp, or the changing of the soil and market fish. In the case of species sprouting in shallow water, occasional summering or at least water level reduction is appropriate.' Page 32 of 447. "The vegetation of the bozos. Structure and species composition. Submersible vegetation consisting of leafy rosewoods of peacocks of lake or peacocks of thorny dross growing bottoms of mountain lakes. The growths reach a maximum height of 20 cm and resemble the lawns with their appearance. Only exceptionally do other species grow in them, e.g. Onion-nets. Ecology. Oligotrophic mountain lakes with sandy or rocky day, sometimes covered with a layer of organic mud. The water is clear, it has a small calcium content and a sour to neutral reaction. Isoëtes lacustris is most commonly found in the depths of 1 to 4 metres, while echinospora grows at depths up to 1 metre and its crops can stay short-term without water. Expansion. Both kinds of puppets have only one location in the Czech Republic - the lakes Černá and Plešné in Šumava. Threats and management. The risk for this vegetation is mainly eutrophication and associated development of phytoplankton and deterioration of water transparency. In the past, both of our locations caused strong acidification to release ionic aluminium, which is toxic to the nostrils and prevents the survival of key plants. At one location, the situation still persists. Potentially, this vegetation can also be threatened by changes in the lake's water and temperature regime. Management is off-limits. The population of puppets on both our locations has been carefully monitored for many years. Monitoring of stocks and water quality is also necessary in the future. The rescue reclamation of both our puppets from the genetically original material is also suitable. M1. Seasons and vegetation of high oysters. High wetland grasses and oysters create species-poor crops whose structure is often determined by a single dominant species. The lower layer of the herbal floor can be quite suppressed due to lack of light. It contains grasses and broad - leafed herbs, in flooded plants or aquatic liver. Sometimes a large amount of old age accumulates on the surface of the soil, which suppresses the development of low-growth plants. As with the periodically drying muddy sediment, an old woman may also be a suitable substrate for the formation of some competitively weaker herbs. However, some neophytes or ruderal species can be used especially in warm areas. Racosins and vegetation of high oysters are developed in different types of natural and anthropogenic wetlands that are permanently or periodically flooded. They are mainly shores and shallow coastal zones of ponds, dead shoulders and pools, river floods, watercourses, and wet meadows, abandoned sandstones and quarrys. In the Czech Republic, this biotope occurs throughout the territory, including the mountain level, the most abundant in the pond basins and river plains and hills. The breakdown of reeds and vegetation of high oysters mainly reflects the dynamics of the water regime and the availability of nutrients. In eutrophic to mesotrophic wetlands with slight water level fluctuations during the year there are reeds of eutrophic standing waters, M1.1. Salted wetlands develop salty reeds and sharps, M1.2. Periodically flooded, nutrients rich in mud are settled by eutrophic vegetation of muddy substrates, M1.3, while mesotrophic vegetation of muddy substrates, M1.6, is developed on permanently flooded organic mud with less nutrients. For the banks and sandy or gravel streams of faster flowing waters are typical river reeds, M1.4, on the aluminium banks and streams of smaller water bodies replaced by coastal vegetation streams, M1.5. Vegetation of high oysters, M1.7 has the least moisture requirements and occurs either in places permanently wet but not flooded - for example in the creeks, or in the short-lived locations in the spring, and during the summer drying up - for example, the forests of large rivers and the banks of ponds. The specific type of reeds are lime peat with a stinging saw. Seasons of eutrophic standing waters. Structure and species composition. Structurally simple, usually one to two-layer vegetation with the predominance of massive mud grasses. Characteristic is the distinct dominance of one species that determines the physiognomy of the crop. Depending on the dominant, the crops reach a height of 0.5 to 4 metres. In densely connected growths, which are usually formed by reeds and orbs broad-leaved, or water-blochan, the lower layer of the herbal floor is often made up of only a few species with little cover. On the contrary, great cover can be achieved by vines. Unreleased vegetation, which can form growth-high species or species lower, is usually species richer. In the flood phase there are frequent species of Potamogeton, Utricularia and other water macrophytes. In growths in short-term drying places there are also one-year-old species of naked pond day - such as the bottom. In reeds with dominant australis on the edges of bogs and moorings there are also some types of wet oyster meadows and mosses and well-developed moss floor. Terestric reeds located outside the litoral zone of wetlands and reeds along the water moats in the agricultural landscape belong to the biotope X7A. [[12.30 hours]] Ecology. Naturally eutrophic, rarer to mesotrophic waters, especially shallow pond shores, dead shoulders and an alluvial pool in the intermediate to advanced stage of earthing, wet terrain reductions, abandoned sandstones and aluminiums, refraction ponds and coasts of calm stretches of flows. The bottom substrate is usually rich with nutrients, aluminium to clay, rarely sandy or gravely, often on the surface with a thick layer of sapropel mud or undissolved old age. Only slight water level fluctuations are characteristic, but a short period without water may occur in the summer. Expansion. All over the Czech Republic with the exception of higher mountain positions. Třeboňsko, Českobudějovice, Vodňanysko, Písecko, Blatensko, Mariánskolázsko, Chebsko, Dokesko, Pardubicko, Českomoravská vrchovina, etc. - and along the lower rivers - Labe, Vltava, Ohře, Odra, Morava, Dyje etc. Most of the sub-types of this vegetation are still abundant throughout the territory, among the rarer are reeds with the dominant crevice of the lake and grasslands with the predominance of the crossover in the litoral zone of the ponds. Very rare and small-scale are silvergray plants found only in Příbramsko and in some areas of the Moravian Carpathians. Threats and management. Eutrophic waters are threatened both by direct destruction of wetland habitats - drying, transfer to arable land or by tying up waste, their degradation due to water flow regulation and the absence of regular flooding in flood areas, strong eutrophication or too intensive or, on the contrary, lack of management. Significantly restrictive interventions include the surface roll-up of ponds or shallow edges; However, some types of reeds regenerate very quickly even after this intervention. For most reeds it is unfavorable to maintain high water levels in the long term. At eutrophic sites there is anaerobic degradation of organic substances and the formation of toxins that cause crop death. It is also restricted to seed crop recovery in species whose diaspora germinates on wet mud. In contrast, the growth of other species is sensitive to drying or freezing the substrate. Management must therefore take into account a specific type of reed. In ponds, occasional water level reductions can be recommended for most crops in the growing season and when piling mud leaving part of the vegetation without intervention. For reeds with a large number of old age, it is suitable for the annual autumn part of the crops with the removal of biomass, otherwise they are thinned and quickly grounded. Management is not necessary at the site in river plains with natural flood dynamics. In the forests of regulated rivers, it is problematic and consists mainly of partial reconstruction of floods. Literature. Balátová-Tuláčková, 1963, Neuhäusl, 1965, Hejný & Husák, 1978, Hanáková & Duchoslav, 2002, Šumberová et al., 2011a.' Through Mr President, to Mrs Levová. Now maybe I'll try. "Structure and species composition. Lower and high, but often unconnected reeds and high oysters. They are two-layered to three-layered: the upper layer usually consists of one dominant species, which may be the camouflage of a field camouflage seawater reed or the tabernaemontan splint, in the lower layers different wet and ruderal species are applied. A significant diagnostic group is a species that tolerates mild salting of soil. Sometimes there is also a moss floor and water plants, including antlers, may also be present in the thinner shallow waters. Ecology. The shores of salty or strong limey streams and pools, bacon, moats, moats, wet ligaments and surrounding ponds. Sometimes, crops of this type occur temporarily for one or a few decades on mining dumps, in brickyards, gravel pits and limestone quarrys. The incidences are concentrated in the surroundings of mineral springs and dryer areas, where the soil fumes outweigh the flooding. A strong variation of water level is characteristic - over the winter the soil is flooded with water, from spring to autumn the water gradually falls and often there is a complete drying. Expansion. Largely located on the locality of Soos near Františkovy Lázně and further on Žatecko, on bacon from Mosteck to Čelákovicko, in the latin areas of the central Polabí, wide forests of rivers in Dyjsko-svratecký and Dolnomoravský úvalu, in the valley of Trekmanka and in Bzeneck. The former extensive plants around the today dried salt lakes near Čejč in Hodonín, Mědna u Brna and in the Srpina basin of Mosteck almost died in the 19th and early 20th centuries. Threats and management. Biotope is at risk of eutrophication, transfer to arable land, drainage and succinctisation to vermin or closed reeds without halophile species. It is beneficial for frequent disruption of soil surface or grazing, possibly even occasional stronger disturbance. It is necessary to maintain a fluctuating level of groundwater. Eutrophic vegetation of muddy substrates. Structure and species composition. One-layer to two-layer crops of broad-leaved swamp herbs, rarer even low grasses. The structure of the crop is usually determined by one to two dominant species. Places can also be found in crops with the superiority of other plants. The occurrence of other species depends on the cover of dominant, shade and depth of water. Amphibious plants are significantly represented. Depending on the water level, different terrestrial and water forms are produced. In flooded growths there are brittle plants. On the other hand, on the exposed bottom, there are often rapidly growing 1-year-old species on the loose fences between dominants. Some dominant species typical of this unit grow even slowly to medium-speed flowing water, but there the crops are completely different from the vegetation in standing waters and belong to the V4 biotope. Ecology. Mostly shallow standing waters, especially dead river shoulders and pools, shallow ponds, fish garrisons, swamps, drainage moats, but also canal edges and rivers with slightly flowing water. Vegetation requires water level fluctuations; the condition with long-term deep water is able to survive most species in the form of seeds, shoots or tubers at the bottom of the tanks. The bottom substrate is usually aluminium or clay, on the surface often with a thick layer of sapropel mud and a good supply of nutrients. Wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet-wet growths can also be found on crevices and crevices with spicy crevices on sands without a layer of mud. Expansion. Throughout the territory of the Czech Republic from the lowlands to the foothills with a concentration of occurrence in pond areas and on the lower streams of larger rivers. Vegetation with lance frog is mainly bound to Polabí and Dolnomoravský and Dyjsko-svratecký úval. The occurrence of the vegetation is concentrated mainly in the south Bohemian pond basins. Vegetation occurs almost exclusively in the South Bohemian pond basins and on the Českomoravské vrchoviny. Similar expansions are also available in other species with Hippuris vulgaris, which naturally occurs only in a few locations in the Dyjsko-svratecký and Hornomoravský úval and in the middle and eastern Polabí. However, the species is planted in places. [[12.40 hours]] Threats and management. Biotope is threatened mainly by the destruction of shallow wetlands or their drying due to a disturbed water regime or an advanced stage of grounding. Of the ponds, some types of vegetation have retreated mainly due to the farming of water poultry, which harms the vegetation of soft leaf species. Large populations of mallard ducks planted on ponds for fee hunts also have a similar effect. In general, however, most types of vegetation are well tolerated by common pond management and rapidly regenerate even after the muddying of ponds. The temporary reduction of water level in the pond during the growing season is appropriate management. The growth of some species is sensitive to eutrophication and competition from more massive swamp herbs. The management of their sites should be extensive, e.g. use of ponds for breeding and more frequent summering. Any debauchery, especially in the case of plants of the species radicalans bound to places with a more powerful layer of mud, should be carried out only to the extent necessary, e.g. only in the fishing grounds and pond sewers. In river basins it is important to maintain or restore flood dynamics, possibly to restore some semi-grounded pools by removing excess sediment. M1.4 River Reeds. Structure and species composition. Vegetation with predominance of reed or sharps of Buek along medium-sized watercourses. It is partly to fully involved crops that reach a height of up to 1.5 metres. In places damaged by the mechanical effect of the current along the middle streams of rivers there are also lower, often fragmented crops. In densely involved vegetation, dominants make it impossible to develop lower layers of herbal floors and therefore, mainly, larger plants are used. In developmental growths can also be found supple or creepy persistent herbs that well withstand mechanical disruptions of the habitat. Species that are typical of muddy river floods - biotope M6 are also prominently represented. Ecology. The natural habitats of river reeds are sandy and gravely, rarer clayy coastal flooding and benches in unregulated sections of streams. Short-term and sometimes repeated floods are characteristic, especially in the spring, but sometimes in the summer. On the contrary, there is usually a low flow rate from August to October. In our country, however, natural occurrences are rare today. Biotope can also occur on the coast of weakly regulated rivers, in which the flow rate varies significantly during the year. Their flood dynamics differ from naturally meandering flows. The floods come either rarely, especially in heavy rains, or the flood wave is moving rapidly down the stream without water spilling into the surrounding area. The water-flowing disruption of the coast is less intense, which is why the affected, species poorer crops prevail. Riveting rooks are more resistant to direct mechanical disturbances than the Buekova sharps, which is why they also grow on the erosion banks of meanders or on floods in the middle of the stream. Both dominant species also spread to high riverbanks and deserted meadows in riverbanks. However, such vegetation is speciesly very poor and belongs to the M1.7 biotope, with a high proportion of rugged species or neophytes then to the X7A biotope. Expansion. On medium and rarer lower flows, most abundantly in their unregulated sections. More extensive crops are known from Ohře, Vltava, Berounky, Sázavy, Otava, Lužnice, Orlice, Svratky, Moravia, Dyje, Ostravice and other rivers. Threats and management. River reeds are at risk by regulating flows, especially by raising and deepening river beds and building dams. The reduction of natural flood dynamics leads to the spread of competitively strong dominants including nitrophile species, while the herbs of lower growth and moist-mile single flyers disappear. This leads to a significant reduction in species diversity. Biotope is often affected by the invasion of neophytes, especially Impatiens glandulifera. River reed management consists mainly of restoring natural flood dynamics where flows have been regulated and where this measure is also relevant for other biotopes such as mud forests, shrubs or flooded meadows. There is also a need to limit invasive plant species, preferably right at the beginning of the invasion. M1.5.' 44th page of 447. "Coastal vegetation of streams. Structure and species composition. One-layered to two-layered plants with prevailing grasses, especially blokhans" - it's only up to two - "and secretive, or persistent, broad-leaved herbs with lingering, ascendant, nodules rooting, creeping, and rapid vegetation spread." At any time you can come up with a statement from the club that you will allow the petition of doctors to appear. Depending on the dominant, the crops reach a height of 0.3-1.5 metres, rarely more. Some species create in deeper water crops floating on the surface, possibly even submerged forms adapted to long-term life in the flowing water. In addition to the species characteristic for coastal vegetation of streams, many species from other biotopes penetrate the vegetation. On a substrate exposed at summer flow minima, wet-moulded 1-year-old species may occur. In flooded growths with slightly flowing water, there are bends. From other water macrophytes, some stars are common. Ecology. Sand-aluminium, clay to clay floods in the creek beds and drenched areas on the banks. Some types of vegetation are also found in man-made canals and moats, village gratings, in the flood of lower rivers, shallow pond edges, in the vicinity of supply struts on the days of summer ponds and fish pits and in the vicinity of spring springs. - By the time we're done, I'll be able to do it normally. The original surface of the shallow surface is flooded under normal water conditions. During the period of elevated levels, crops can be flooded completely for a short period of time, on the contrary, water often completely falls under the summer flow minima. The growth of some species also endures long-term flooding. Expansion. Throughout the territory of the Czech Republic from the lowlands to the foothills, to the mountain level. The extension is not known, which is mainly related to the low-level occurrence of the biotope. In addition to streams, the occurrence is reported from some larger rivers, e.g. Otavy, upper Vltava and Eagle. Growths with the dominant Berula erecta, exceptionally even N. xsterile..." [[Here comes Mrs Rutová, asking if she can ask the speaker anything.]] Sure, do you need a drink? [[An unintelligible reaction outside the microphone.]] No, no. Make a deal and allow the doctors to perform. "In addition to streams, the occurrence is indicated from some larger rivers, for example, yes, Otava -" So call them here. [[Messenger. Rutová again tells the messenger. Free.]] "the upper Vltava and the Eagle." I can't accommodate you. "Porosts with dominant Berula erecta, especially N. xsterile, occur mainly in middle and northern Bohemia, for example in Polabí, Bohemian Paradise and Kokořínsko. Porosts have the only known location near Hrdbořice in Olomouck. Rare vegetation has been recorded only in Hradčany in the Czech Republic in recent years. Rusts with dominant oryzoides are common mainly in lowlands and warmer hills. [[12.50 hours]] Threats and management. This biotope is mainly threatened by direct destruction of habitats. The invasion of some neophytes and the expansion of domestic ruderal herbs has also been undermined. However, most types of coastal vegetation of streams are abundant and very well tolerated by higher water and substrate trophy, as well as mechanical disruptions such as annual shear, grazing or removal of muddy sediments from struts and ditches over several years. These interventions limit the rate of Succeeding, which is mostly directed towards the more massive reeds of eutrophic waters. As a management measure, they can also be applied where, due to the regulation of streams, there has been a reduction in flow, which otherwise prevents natural suctions. The removal of sediments can sometimes be combined with the revitalization of parts of the flows. By the crops..." [[A doctor approaches the speaker and offers help.]] Yes, I asked for a doctor. You signed a doctor's petition? Did you sign a doctor's petition? No, no, no, my colleague may have a problem, so hear her out. No, no, no, thank you, I'm fine. I would like to say that "the removal of sediments can sometimes be combined with revitalization" - I reject your help, thank you - "the densities of rarer species, however, must be handled carefully and care taken to maintain sufficiently large populations without intervention. The vegetation is likely to be supported by restrictions on the cover of other herbs by means of extensive grazing or driving." If there was a masseur or a masseuse, I'd appreciate her help. "M1.6 Mesotrophic vegetation of muddy substrates. Structure and species composition. Growths, usually between 0.2 and 1.5 metres high, with the predominance of broad-leaved swamp plants, rarely higher grasslands. In the lower growths, herbs are used, which are rapidly spread by long decoys, crawling overground protrusions, or liquefying spices, such as swamp devils, three-leaved moths, and mud moths. Vegetation of higher growth is often made up of sharpness or sharpness of beak and high swamp herbs. This unit also includes reed plants, where with such a large cover there is a fern. The biotope is made up of either coastal plants or floating islands, called plows. Ecology. Mud sediments in shallow standing waters, e.g. in semi-grounded ponds, dead river shoulders, and wetland alpine flares. The substrate is hard wet, often up to liquid, slightly acidic to slightly basic and usually achieves a significant proportion of the fallout and old age at different stages of decomposition. A significant proportion of the fallout and old age at different stages of degradation. Naturally, this vegetation occurs in the wetlands of a mesotrophic nature. However, the growths of calla paulatis resulting from plantings can also be found at Eurotrophic sites. Expansion. Torn almost throughout the territory of the Czech Republic from the lowlands to the foothills. More frequent occurrence was recorded in the Podkrušnohoří. Wetlands and coastal vegetation," 48 out of 447. So "are found in the Slavkov Forest, in the Ploučnice basin, in the Czech Paradise, in the middle Polabí, in the Třeboň basin and in the Bohemian Moravian Highlands. Very rarely, this biotope has been recorded in southern Moravia and in higher positions. It is possible that in some localities it is called paulatis from plantings. Threats and management. Mesotrophic vegetation of muddy substrates is threatened mainly by drainage of swamps, destruction of dead shoulders by strong eutrophication and other influences. The regulation of watercourses causes the drying of alluvial wetlands and their growth by common types of vegetation of reeds and high oysters. The biotope is also retreating during intensive fish farming and pond roll-up. In the short term, no intervention management is possible. However, in the long-term absence of any interference, the biotope is disappearing due to gradual grounding. That's why it's necessary to slow down the succections so" - I understood it so that normally it kills itself when it's successful. I'm gonna pass the exam today. "In the short term..." I've already said that... "In the long run..." I already said that. "Therefore, it is necessary to brake the succection so as to maintain open-water areas in the locality. Part of the crops can also be used with the removal of mown biomass and oldage." Maybe Agrofert's supposed to fund it. "Interval between interventions depends on the type and trophy of the habitat, the type of vegetation and the speed of its expansion. In ponds, crops are restricted within normal management, but should have an extensive character. When debugging ponds or piling edges, part of the crops should be left unscathed. Restoring the original regime in river plains by means of revitalization interventions is probably not possible, as this vegetation is growing in places without the influence of the flood, and the main problem here is the drop in groundwater. M1.7 High-strength vegetation. Structure and species composition. One-layer to two-layered crops with the predominance of high oysters. According to the growth form of the dominant species, vegetation is either mosaicous or homogeneous. Thorny sharps create massive, up to 1 meter - high twigs, or bulls. In the open between the bulls, in so-called snails, swamp herbs usually grow higher in growth. In larger pools among the thinly scattered ridges of sharps, there are often herbs of sluggish growth. Some water macrophytes grow in shallow water. Sharps, especially if their older parts die, can hold on to smaller growth herbs. On the other hand, crops with the predominance of protruding, unthreshold sharps are more homogeneous. Their structure is given by the height and attachment of the dominant sharps. The lower layer of the herbal palate is developed very weakly in densely connected sharps. The plants with rattling reeds or cane greys have a similar character, also classified in this biotope, which represent the last non-forestic succesful phase of other types of originally sharp crops or other wetland vegetation. Species richer are crops with the predominance of distich and vulpin. The species composition of the vegetation of high oysters depends mainly on soil reaction and nutrient content in the substrate. While crops on acidic and nutrients of poor substrates have a number of common species with peatland vegetation, species from flooded meadows and rugged lawns penetrate the sharper crops on more basic nutrients of rich substrates. The moss floor is developed weakly or missing. The growths of some sharps typical of this unit also occur on peatlands. There, however, is a richly developed moss floor. Sometimes both biotopes can be linked to each other, while at the edges of the water reservoirs nearer to the water surface there is vegetation of high oysters - M1.7 - and in already grounded places there is a peat pit - R2.2, R2. The growths of high oysters with a large proportion of ruderal species or neofytes belong to the X7A biotope. [[13.00 hours]] Ecology. Vegetation high -" Do you usually want to work after two o'clock, or do you want to go home? "Vegetation..." I accept orders. "The vegetation of high oysters is mainly bound to the coastal shallows and shores of ponds, river shoulders and pools in the advanced stages of succection, drenched off-road reductions on meadows, flooded, flooded river or brook forests, and the edges of peatlands and peatlands. It often follows eutrophic reeds - M1.1, which settle longer flooded places. During the growing season, the water level in the sharps varies significantly, decreasing in summer to or even deep below the soil surface level. However, the long-term lack of water leads to the loss of vegetation on wetland species and to the penetration of rugged species. Substrate are heavy clay-plated ogleyed soil, on the surface often with a thick layer of organic detritus at different stages of decomposition. The soil reaction is slightly basal to acidic. Expansion. Throughout the territory of the Czech Republic from the lowlands to the foothills, places to the mountain level. The incidence is focused mainly on larger rivers - for example Elbe, Orlice, Ohře, Otava, Sázavy, Moravia, Dyje and Odry -" I bet most of you already want me to endure - "and in more humid areas with ponds and swamps such as Chebsko, Mariánskolázka, Českobudějovice, Třeboň and Českomoravská vrchovina." But you can cancel your tickets. "In areas with a small amount of rainfall, for example in the middle and lower Poohří and in southern Moravia, vegetation of high oysters outside the river niva is rare. Few sites also exist in the Carpathian part of Moravia, where suitable habitats rarely occur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u41	Good afternoon. Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I'm not gonna take your word for it, I'm just gonna... Of course, I will mention that the meeting day ends at 19, or at 21 o'clock, so we can be here for a really long time. However, the third reading can only be discussed within 14 hours and at 13.40 we have a fixed point. Perhaps I would ask myself how your speech is related to the Government's bill on invasive species, although I respect the decisions of the presidents who have left you to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u42	It has to do with the fact that I have noticed several times that many of my colleagues don't know what they're voting on, and because this is a vote on non-originating species, I'm here to explain the difference between the species of the original and non-originating species in our biotope. So "a few sites also exist in the Carpathian part of Moravia, where suitable habitats rarely occur. Threats and management. The main causes of the threat to this biotope are the regulation of watercourses and associated absence of floods, drainage of swamps, destruction of dead shoulders, alluvial pools and other shallow marshes. In ponds, the vegetation of high oysters is limited by the uplifting of litorals and some types of vegetation are retreating due to strong eutrophication. Invading neophytes are spreading especially in river plains. Outside the threads is more frequent degradation due to the accumulation of old age and the spread of rugged species. The rate of restoration of the oyster crops after mechanical disruption is different. Easiest to regenerate common species of oysters linked to eutrophic habitats affected by floods. For example, crops of Carex riparia or C. vulpina are quickly re-established on ploughed areas. On the other hand, oysters bound to oligotrophic to mesotrophic habitats, especially certain cult species, regenerate slowly. It is therefore necessary to leave part of the ponds without interference when rolling up. Growths with larger biomass production, especially in flooded meadows, should be maintained by cutting down and removing the old age within a two to three-year interval. For the crops of slowly growing species it is sufficient to carve raid trees. As a rule, the growths of sharps growing in permanently wet habitats do not require any active management. It is important to maintain the appropriate water regime or restore it, e.g. revitalization of river systems or controlled flooding. M1.8 Calcium peat pits with stifling sawdust. Structure and species composition. Vegetation of the appearance of very reeds with dominance of a sawdust. The enjoined grasslands are species poor, because in a dense complex of crawling roots of the dominant species, other types of herbs are rarely promoted. On the other hand, species of reeds and sharps and also subnodulousus are applied in loose growths. The growths of the sawfish occur in contact with the vegetation of the base plains and the slanomile reeds and some other types of biotopes penetrate them. Ecology. Natural occurrences are linked to calcium rich grounding peat, referred to in Polabí local name black. In addition, crops are also developed on man-made and then wet areas, e.g. in off-road reductions resulting from soil extraction for the construction of the railway line near Všetat. Water levels often stay above the soil surface until late summer, but some sites, especially in dryer years, are only wet for a short time in the spring and then dry up. Only on four locations in Polabí between Mělník and Lysa nad Labem - Polabská černava u Mělnická Vrutice, u Vševat, in the wetland of the old Labský meander u Kozlů and Hrabanovská černava u Lysá nad Labem. Threats and management. Cladium mariscus ranks among critically endangered species in the Czech Republic. Its crops are very rare and can be threatened by drainage, eutrophication, natural suctions of peat vegetation and growing bushes or trees. However, existing crops appear to be relatively stable and not subject to major changes. However, it is difficult to spread the plague to new sites, so monitoring of existing sites, removal of raid trees and, where appropriate, cutting-off at several years' intervals or regulation of ground water level is important. M2 Vegetation of one-year humid herbs. The vegetation of one-year humidile herbs includes one-layered to two-layered plants, in more advanced development stages and multilayered plants with various covers and heights usually up to 20 cm. They usually contain tiny one-year or short-lived grasses. One-year two-year herbs are also widely represented and may dominate some of them. The main level of vegetation can sometimes significantly outgrown the one-year herbs of wet eutrophic soils. Permanent herbs from contact vegetation usually do not reach greater cover. The occurrence of species of vegetation of reeds and high oysters is common, but mostly young individuals. Seedlings of trees, especially willows and poplars, may also occur. The small-storey vegetation is penetrated to a greater extent by the slim and creepy, persistent herbs typical of wet, rugged lawns. In particular, in the initial stage of the suction, specialized mechorosties of naked day, especially liver, are applied to the exposed substrate. In short-term connected places, these species are usually replaced by common mosses. The vegetation of one-year humidilous herbs develops on areas moistened or flooded with a very shallow layer of water - up to 1 cm, on which persistent plants are temporarily missing. Most often it is exposed bottoms of summer ponds, periodic pools and dead shoulders, shores, banks of dams and sand pits with fluctuating levels, rarer river floods, mechanically disturbed areas in meadows, edge of bacon, wet fields and roads. [[His phone's ringing, he's turning off.]] The substrate is sand, gravel, clay or mud with a large proportion of organic substances and acidic to slightly basic reactions, rarely with a larger content of slightly soluble salts. [[13.10 hours]] Long-term flooding is not a necessary condition for the development of this vegetation, but represents an advantage for competitively weak one-year species, as their growing cycle is very short and must take place before the development of vegetation with the predominance of persistent species. This is best fulfilled in summer ponds. In shallow reservoirs, even persistent mud plants usually persist after waterfalls, while small ones of one-year-old species develop only fragmented. This vegetation occurs in lowlands and hills throughout the Czech Republic with a significant concentration of localities in the South Bohemian pond basins and in the Bohemian Mountains. The breakdown of vegetation of one-year humidilous herbs reflects both climatic differences and the different chemical properties of the substrate. The vegetation of summer ponds - M2.1 - is mainly bound to slightly warm and moist areas and acidic to neutral muddy substrates rich with nutrients but poor calcium. One-year vegetation of wet sands - M2.2 - is bound to wet sour, nutrients poor, sandy soil. On the contrary, vegetation exposed to the hot day - M2.3 - is rarely found on mineral-rich substrates in the warmest areas of the state. On salty periodically flooded soils in South Moravia there is rare vegetation of one-year slanomilous grasses -M2.4. M2.1 Vegetation of summer ponds. Structure and species composition. In the early stages of the succection, it is usually a single-layered plant formed by low creepy or lingering plants, often by terrestrial forms of amphibious species. At this stage, green algae and cyanobacteria coatings are also developing on wet mud. During the suction, one-year grasses and herbs of higher growth are increasingly applied. The entitlements of each species to the length of the day, humidity and temperature of the substrate are very different and therefore their development takes place in different parts of the year. Several types of grasses can thus be replaced in one place during the growing season: e.g. After completion of its development, the blister is replaced by a sharp-eyed and mudy egg or net frog. The growths of the heat-loving species are optimally developed on substrates exposed only in summer. More powerful humid one-year herbs appear in the form of seedlings already in the early stages of vegetation development and later often become dominants of vegetation. However, the growths in which these species dominate are included in the X7A biotope, with the exception of the occurrence on exposed river streams belonging to the M6 biotope. If the substrate retains sufficient moisture in later stages, the moss floor is richly developed. Ecology. The bottoms of the summer ponds and pond edges exposed to short-term water shortages, the edges of the reservoirs, fish pits, sand pits, muddy river floods and shallow river shoulders, which in summer at least partially dry up. According to the physical and chemical properties of the substrate, this vegetation is quite variable even at the bottom of a single pond, best developed by crops on deep sapropel, nutrients rich in mud. Substrate has an acidic to neutral reaction and a small calcium content. Species requiring substrates with less organic matter, such as rough sand or clay mud, include fuscus, michelianus, hexanedra and aquatica. Cyperus species grow more frequently on lime substrates by a neutral to slightly basal reaction. Expansion. From the lowlands to the sub-mountain level throughout the territory of the Czech Republic. The incidence is concentrated mainly in pond areas of western Bohemia, southern Bohemia, Bohemian Mountains, Jihlava and Telčsko. Here there are species' richest crops with the representation of most typical species. In central, northern and eastern Bohemia and in southern, central and northern Moravia and Silesia, this vegetation is usually species poorer. Threats and management. At natural habitats, this vegetation is threatened mainly by the deepening of watercourses and the construction of dams, i.e. interventions that reduce the likelihood of exposure to suitable substrates in the riverbed." That's logical, I think. "Absence of floods also leads to the grounding of dead shoulders and their growth with persistent vegetation. From the ponds some typical species of this biotope receded due to changes in the management, because they require summering throughout the growing season, which is currently rarely done. However, most species typical of this biotope are able to complete their development cycle in two to three months, even during commonly practiced short summering. This usually takes place in spring, which suits species with early key and short development. Late-key growths of species can also develop at the end of summer or autumn in ponds with natural water drop or released during harvesting. The types of vegetation of summer ponds are not significantly sensitive to normal fertilization and lime. Major changes in substrate chemism occur on ponds with farm poultry farming, where acidic substrates disappear and basil and nitrophile species spread. The basis of this biotope management is the summer of ponds. Its length and periodicity should be based on the type of vegetation and local conditions, such as the abundance of the influx or the type of pond use. Dose limitation of fertilisers and lime makes sense in the case of rare species with a nutrient binding of poorer substrates, especially in ponds with the current occurrence of unit M2. Competitively strong species on ponds aged throughout the growing season can be reduced by cutting or extensive grazing. It is necessary to maintain a small proportion of sediments as a source of diaspora when liquefying ponds with rarer species. Vegetation mostly made up of ephemeral, one-year-old species of low growth. The surface area of the crops is often less than 1 m2. One year of grass, sometimes two years of herbs, prevail. A characteristic is the representation of mechorostes, especially the field chowder."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u43	Mr. Ambassador, if you need to take an important call, there are several more...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u44	No, it's not important, it's time, it's the countdown of time. "The occurrence of several closely specialized species, now very rare and endangered, such as Centunculus mininus, is significant. They may also form separate crops." She won't recognize me now. "In the field, this vegetation is often found in a mosaic with a field of reuderal herbs in trampled places. Ecology. Periodically shallow flooded or at least in spring sufficiently wet sandy places with a small covering of persistent herbs. At present, these areas are mostly extensively used, such as wet fields -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u45	[[He's coming in.]] Ambassador, I have been warned that a member of the government is not present in the room. And given what time it is, and I've accumulated a lot here--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u46	I do not insist on the presence of members of the government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u47	I understand that. I'm gonna insist on it, and I'm gonna interrupt this House meeting for 10 minutes. Then we'll go ahead and get to the next point, and in the meantime...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u48	Ten minutes is 13.30? [[President Pikal: Yes, until 13.30.]] And the point is at 13.40? [[President Pikal: The point is at 13.40.]] So I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u49	You will not continue, because I will interrupt the House's meeting by leaving the chair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u50	Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u51	Of course you can. [[- I know.]] So I'm interrupting the House meeting for 10 minutes. [[I'll read it to you later.]] I beg you to clean up the rhetorical site so we can return this place at least a little bit of dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, I have suspended the meeting until 13.30, which is now. Let's keep going, then. Before we go any further, I'm going to introduce the House to the received note. Mr Antonín Staněk apologizes for today's meeting from 13.15 to the end of the day for working reasons. Minister Schillerová apologizes for today's meeting since 11.30 for work reasons. Mr Bartošek apologizes to us from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of work. Mr Kobza apologises between 14:00 and 23.58 for reasons of work. The Member and Vice-President of the House, Petr Fiala, apologizes between 12 and 14 a.m. and, respectively, until the end of the day for family reasons. Mr Pavel žáček apologizes today from 12 a.m. to the end of the day for work reasons. Mr Petr Třešňák apologizes from 11.45 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Martínek apologizes today from 13.20 to the end of the day for working reasons. Mr Vondrák apologizes today between 11:30 and 14:00 for work reasons. Mrs Majerová Zahradníková apologizes to us by the end of the day. Mr Dominik Feri apologizes for the House meeting on 26. 5 to 28. 5. Mr Stanislav Blaha apologizes for his professional reasons today from 13:00 p.m. to Tuesday 1. 6. and on Wednesday 2. 6. all day long. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková excuses her participation in today's meeting between 12.30 and 14.00 for working reasons, and Mr Hájek apologizes today between 12 and 14.00 for working reasons. And I interrupted the House meeting because the Minister was not present, and this situation has not changed, so I will continue this interruption until 13.40 hours, when we have a fixed point, and I will believe that a member of the government will arrive. So if there's no objection to this procedure, I'm going to interrupt this 104th meeting until 13.40.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-28-ps2017-104-03-001-327.u53	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, it is 13.40, we will continue. There is a fixed point for this time. This is a point number
