ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-009-015.u1	15. Government bill amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health /German press 1164/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Adam Vojtěch, Minister of Health, will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-009-015.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Now, about that proposal, which is the amendment law to the Act on the Electronization of Health. In short, I would like to introduce you to its contents. As mentioned again in the first reading and when discussing the Committee on Health, this proposal contains several amendments to the laws in which they are expressed following the institutes and procedures provided for by the Act on the Electronisation of Health. These are the following laws: Act on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the state administration of the Czech Republic, Act on archiving and writing services, Act on sickness insurance, Act on medicines and Act on health services. In the draft amendment to the Act on the establishment of ministries and other central government bodies, the scope of the Ministry of Health is complemented by the electronicisation of health care. The purpose of the amendment of the bill on archiving and the file service is to harmonise the rules for public and private authors in the treatment of medical documentation, that is to transfer it to the regime under special legislation, in this case under the regime of the Health Services Act. Furthermore, the Act on sickness insurance is amended, the Czech Social Security Administration and the occupational health insurance authority are allowed to use the system access certificates of health service providers issued by the Ministry of Health under the Act on the Electronization of Health Services. At the same time, the Czech Social Security Administration is allowed to use existing access certificates of health service providers issued by the State Institute for Drug Control prior to the entry into force of the amendment to the Act, in order to verify the identity of the attending physician for the duration of their validity. This concerned and concerns the use of the so-called "Incompetent." The amendment to the Act on Medicines also allows the above-mentioned Resort System Certificates of Health Service Providers to be used in the eRecipe system. The Act on Health Services is also being amended, taking into account the impact of the Act on Electronisation in the legislation of this Act. By standardizing the central collection of essential data about health services providers, health services and quality of care, a data base will be built, which will start a whole new era of opening Czech health care data. So far, in the system of separated registers and partial data collections in various institutions, the whole system suffers from the lack of update and incompleteness of available data. The Central Electronic Health Act will strengthen the already established national health information system and will receive legislative support to open data on health services, their availability, networks of health service providers, quality of care and so on. This means, indeed, the aim is to open up the data that is collected in this way in the national health information system. To this end, the Government's bill defines a new entity, the so-called reference resort statistics, which is precisely meant on open data generated by key indicators and metrics in the above areas. The open data agenda will cease to be a partial agenda, often linked only to temporary projects, but will be managed on the basis of the law and its implementing decree. So much for this amendment law, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-009-015.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee on guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House press 1164/1. I ask that Mr Rostislav Vyzula take the floor as rapporteur for the Committee on Health and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and of any possible amendments. So, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-009-015.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the health guarantee committee also discussed this press at the 85th meeting on 31 March of this year and issued Resolution 372, stating that: "After the opening word of the Minister of Health docent. Jan Blatný and the report by Mr Rostislav Vyzula and after the debate by the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's draft law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the Act on the Electronisation of Health, House Press 1164; II. Instructs the Committee rapporteur, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to propose, in cooperation with the draftsman and the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, other necessary adaptations under Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Article 2 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies; and III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, to present the opinion of the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies." That is all, no amendments were accepted there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-16-ps2017-104-08-009-015.u5	I am now opening a merged debate on both prints.
