ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u1	4. The proposal by Members of Jiří Běhounek and Vít Kaňkovský to issue a law amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, and some other laws /German press 1010/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to us as House Press 1010/1. I would like to ask Mr Jiří Běhounek to present the motion in favour of the appellant. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u2	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, this bill together with Vítek Kaňkovský, who apologized, and in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is a response to the situation of medical assessment service and a proposal for further procedure. I am convinced that the material is processed in very detail, so if you have read it, I will limit myself only to the basic statement that I should not delay. It was submitted to the House on 10 September 2020. The operative position cited by the Vice-President shall be that of 14 October of the same year. Basically, it is a reaction to the material approved by the Czech Government on 13 January by its resolution 37. It is generally known that the lack of doctors in the medical assessment service and their age structure are very unfavourable. Interest in activities within the medical assessment service is small. However, this results in very complex complications with the assessment of persons and the provision of conclusions. The dynamics and targeting of controls are not sufficient and there are, above all, significant problems with respect to deadlines. What is to be improved by this proposal is the effort to stabilise the medical assessment service and the smooth performance of its activities. Following the broad discussions we had with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs after we identified this issue in the field, we found that the only possible solution in this situation is the proposal to introduce an institute of professional nonmedical health care worker, which would be a worker who would prepare materials for the first instance of the district social security administration, lightened the doctor's opinion, and the opinion he would have drawn up on the basis of tax-based outputs must be signed by a review doctor. [[to]] Of course, this would not violate the quality of the control mechanisms set. It is expected that there are about 160 of these workers in the Czech Republic. Given the lack of fulfilment of the number of employees in the assessment service, there would probably be no greater claim to complement the number. And the time that would be determined by this transitional period would be spread over about two years. Since we have found that no electronic documents are currently being sent, we have also added some other issues in cooperation with the MPSV, which is the specification of the sending of documents for assessment, the concentration of management, the possibility of assessment in the presence of the person considered in the assessment of the state of health. It may invite a health service provider to act so that it is not only on the basis of written matters. And then it is possible to discuss the termination of temporary incapacity during the examination of entitlement to sick leave. We originally assumed the wording of the law from 1. 1. 2021. Of course, this time has passed in vain. So I believe that if this material is discussed, the chance of stabilizing the medical assessment service with effect from 1 will be improved. 1. 2022, or how the legislative process will take place. I beg you to think about it and release this law into second reading. It is basically a technique that would significantly facilitate the activity of not only medical assessment services but also the impact on the assessed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u3	Thank you. The rapporteur for the first reading is Mr David Kasal, who was here just a moment ago, but I do not see him here now. But we need newsletters for first reading. I'm asking someone who is running the YESA MP's club right now to try... And great. The MP is here. [[Mr. Kasal is coming into the hall.]] I ask Mr David Kasal, who is the rapporteur, to take the floor now before I open the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u4	I'm sorry. Thank you for the floor. This press was reported by the petitioner regarding the assessment service and the lack of assessment doctors. It is very important for both the assessment service and the health and social services to work, so I support it and I ask that it be released for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Minister Jana Maláčová is the first party to the debate with priority rights. Mrs Jarošová will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u6	Thank you, Mr President. You know that we support Mr Běhounek and Mr Kaňkovský's proposal. The Ministry participated in the preparation because the medical assessment service is in crisis for a long time because doctors are often there before they retire. The average age of doctors is 62 years. Newcomers do not report, especially because the LPS is associated with a relatively large administrative burden and often changing laws. However, as many as 430,000 reports are held annually by medical examiners, hundreds of thousands of people rely on quality medical evaluation services. I would like to tell you the good news, because when we were informed about the current state of the LPS, when I tracked it on a monthly basis, at the moment we have only 37 under-due medical evaluation services - 37 after a period of time. And all 37 are after a deadline due to the client's own request for covid. That's very good news, because when I joined the Ministry, I inherited over 11,000 underpayments. So, despite the difficult situation, we manage the entire medical assessment service very well. Nevertheless, it is important for aging doctors to support this intention. He was introduced by Mr. Běhounek. I'm not gonna say it again. Since the opening of the LPS and non-medical professionals, we promise mainly to accelerate the issue of the opinion, to ease today the overloaded assessment doctors and overall staff stabilization. Finally, I would like to say that we want to increase people's confidence in the medical assessment system, and therefore I beg you to support this proposal and allow for further reading, for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u7	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mrs Jarošová is next in the general debate and so far the last one entered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u8	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Let me say here the position of the SPD on this amendment, the purpose of which is to respond to the long-term lack of assessors in the Department of Labour and Social Affairs and to make the medical assessment service more effective. I must say that the lack of assessors is a long-term problem. We're worried about a number of vacant places. And a lot of doctors are older than me. But unfortunately, this concerns health care in our country as a whole. We also see a big problem in lengthy proceedings, where the reason for this is to spend the unjustified work of the district social security doctors on activities that professional non-medical health professionals could carry out. The most important proposed regulation in this amendment is the strengthening of the medical assessment service precisely on the institute of a medical professional, who will be involved in carrying out tasks in cooperation with social security doctors to the extent of his expertise. Together, they can do much more work and faster in the team. [[18.20 hours]] The above-mentioned problems and the small effectiveness of their solutions in recent years have caused major problems in the activities of the medical assessment service as a whole and at its individual levels. The seriousness of the situation and its possible social impacts require substantive and legal solutions. These will ensure not only staff stabilization of medical assessment services and smooth and timely assessments with minimalization of assessments issued after a legal period, but also social security for disabled persons. The SPD movement is aware of the seriousness of these problems that need to be addressed, thereby improving, facilitating and making the work of assessors more attractive, which is why we support this amendment and will vote in favour of passing it on to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u9	Thank you. Mrs Olga Richterová came forward with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u10	Thank you for the floor. Just very briefly, because the medical assessment service was actually very intensive on and outside the committee. Well, it's just that it's a good thing that a solution is outlined, but the big problem with medical opinion age is something that I think is still threatening to get away with in the years to come, but the good news about the settlement of medical opinion reports over time is something that also deserves to be commended. And since it's not enough to do in this House, I will allow myself, because I think it's appropriate to commend Minister Maláčová for having arranged for the settlement of the underdue, because after that time it was really shameful and those people were in a desperate situation. So thank you for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-23-ps2017-091-01-004-004.u11	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? No one is applying to the debate. I am ending the general debate. There's no interest in final words. The application for repayment or refusal of the application has not been made. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? No one else is suggesting a committee. So we are voting on the commandment to the guarantee committee, the Social Policy Committee. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote order number 6 entered 98 Members, for 89, against no one. The motion was accepted. Is there still a motion for a commandment to another committee? The Organizing Committee has not made such a proposal. There is no such proposal from the diaper, so I note that we have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. I'm done discussing this point. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the rapporteur. Now it's time for the point.
