ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u1	1. Tightening the punishment for violent behaviour against women and other possible victims and unconditional rape sentences I ask that the words be taken on behalf of the appellant of this point, Mrs Barbora Kořanová, who, if she agrees, will also become his rapporteur. The Member agrees. I ask your colleagues to be even more calm and please give you the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u2	Hello, fellow Members, Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, I am before you as the caller of this extraordinary meeting to introduce you to the reasons for its call and initiation at all. I'd be lying if I told you that Mr. Dominik Feri's former colleague and his case had nothing to do with today's meeting. They do. It is not, however, that he was accused of sexual harassment and violence against women, which is not my place to judge. We live in a legal state, and I, of course, honor the presumption of innocence regardless of any political affiliation. What I find truly scandalous, however, is the statements made by the legislators, whether they are members of the TOP 09 Schwarzenberg or honored Mr Czernin. I will not repeat them here because I do not want to reduce the seriousness and decorum of this action. Moreover, it might not be easy for many people who are watching us now to hear them again. In their comments, the gentlemen tried to downplay and question the testimony of women who were accused of serious sexually motivated acts of violence by former TOP 09 MP Dominik Feri. These statements by both masters would carry me to the 19th, maybe 18th century. Can you imagine, for example, if a member of the YES movement experienced this? How would the Chamber of Deputies react?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u3	Madam, I dare to interrupt you. I think that your opening word is important enough for colleagues to pay attention to him, and I will call on both left and right to possibly dissolve the discussion groups. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Can you imagine what a reaction would be if this were to happen or if one of the members of the ANO movement or the President of the Republic made these statements? Well, I'll tell you. The opposition would tear us apart, an extraordinary meeting or an investigation committee would be convened, as is the custom of this House and so on. The response to Mr Schwarzenberg's remarks was slightly more lukewarm. For example, the honourable colleague Sommerová spoke of the fact that Mr TOP 09 Schwarzenberg was brought up and formed at a different time. Well, I would now like to express my opinion that, although I do not know what kind of education is taking place in the Czech or Austrian castles and castles, I believe that most in this Chamber of Deputies do not bagate sexual violence, humiliate victims of sexual violence and view the perpetrators of sexual violence as extremely dangerous criminals. This is also the reason why I initiated the convening of this extraordinary meeting, because I believe that after these statements, one of which has spoken by a member of this House, but also by the other Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic, must be heard to the public. The House must clearly stand in support of these victims and give a clear signal that any debacle of these acts is totally inadmissible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u5	Madame, I will interrupt you again because my colleagues signal that I cannot be heard at all. Thank you. Please carry on, maybe it'll hold.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u6	Thank you. I'm going to get to the point now. Personally, I believe that there is a great deal of room in the Czech legal system for the necessary changes that would involve sexual violence. I personally see two fundamental planes here. The first point I'm going to introduce to you is the more accurate definition of what rape is, that is, the modification of its substance. The Czech Republic is not yet one of the countries whose statutory rape regime is based on the opposition of the victim or the inability of the victim to show his will. These states, which base rape on consent, include, for example, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom of Great Britain or Denmark, whose legislation is probably closest to me. [[12.10 hours]] I would like to propose that we base the rape offence not only on the fact that the perpetrator is the one who, using violence or threats of violence or other serious harm, will have sexual intercourse with another person against his will, but also on the one who, for example, is in a state of defence, or because of fear for his life or health, or because of his or her position and his or her resulting credibility or influence. By this change, we would achieve, in particular, that rape will no longer necessarily have to be associated with physical violence, and thus, in no way will the testimony of women on whom there are no signs of physical violence be questioned. So today we basically have a rape charge defined. Although I personally am closer to the Danish model and the establishment of legislation on opposition or consent, I understand that there is a large part of the Members in this House... [[The MP loses his voice and coughs.]] I'm sorry. Although I personally am closer to the Danish model and the establishment of legislation on consent or opposition, I understand that there is a large proportion of Members in this House who consider the word 'agreed' in the definition of rape to be controversial and would probably not support such a change. Personally, I am not entirely satisfied, but politics is simply the art of the possible, the search for compromise is inevitable, and I totally respect that. I would like to respond here in advance to a few comments or questions that may have been raised in the debate or that have already been raised. Some of you may ask why not ratify the Istanbul Convention. The reason is simply that the Convention itself is not only devoted to sexual violence, but also to other areas that may be problematic for a significant part of this House, including myself, and the process would be significantly prolonged. Another remark will certainly be the reference of the House to whether I want to introduce or cause a wave in the Czech Republic based on Me Too, or some kind of Czech Me Too. I don't want to. I'm a defender of the right to a fair trial, and I'm guilty of him being the one to be recognized by the court. He'll still be on the plaintiffs to prove the defendant's guilt. And the principle in dubio pro reo will still apply, i.e. that unclear evidence cannot be attributed to the accused. The false accusations that must be reckoned with in all legal proceedings will continue to be prosecuted according to applicable legal standards, and this, colleagues, is very important to me too. So I would like to sum up what my goal is. First of all, I want us to put emphasis on what the victim has done to show the accused that he is not interested in sexual intercourse, but also on what led the accused to believe that the victim agrees with the intercourse. My colleagues, my colleague Nacher, will certainly be talking about this here. It will also be of great symbolic importance by já and other colleagues proposed by the redefining, and victims of sexual violence may result in the criminal offence being reported because only a minority of these victims are currently reporting rape. I'm sorry... [[A Member drinks water.]] The aim of today's meeting is, therefore, to hear the views of the various Members' clubs in public about changes in the applicable criminal legislation, which I will later reflect in the development of the relevant legislation. We, in cooperation with Professor Válková, but also with the Ministry of Justice, have prepared changes to legislation that could reflect my demands, my personal requirements, and I would be happy to look at this together and start the discussion here. If there was a rare consensus on changes in the legislation, I think we could still adopt it during the current parliamentary term. Personally, I am willing to do my utmost as a representative of the largest parliamentary club, given that I consider this to be a dignified end to the current parliamentary term. I have spoken several times today about symbolism, which is why today I will propose a resolution which I am asking you to support, because I think it is the least we can do, but at the same time it is an important signal to Czech society. The resolution has nine points. I prepared them with colleagues, such as the Pirate Party, actually received them today by all clubs across the Chamber of Deputies, also in cooperation with nonprofit organizations. The resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. It declares its negative attitude towards any act of violence in the Czech Republic. II. It states that sexual violence is among the extraordinary..."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u7	Madam, I understand. For the third time, I call on my colleagues to remain calm. A motion for a resolution is being loaded, and I think it would be appropriate for all of us to hear it. If you don't care, please transfer your discussions outside the meeting room. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. "II. It states that sexual violence is among the extremely serious acts of violence, even as it can have dangerous and lifelong effects on victims of these acts of violence.; III. It expresses its full support and participation in the victims of sexual violence in the Czech Republic and calls on them, if sexual violence is or will be committed, to contact the authorities of the criminal system with confidence and to report this to them." [[The MP's coughing.]] Allergies, I'm sorry. "IV. It declares its full readiness to establish and adopt a proposal for an amendment to the Act on the Protection of Victims of Crimes, which will include legislative measures to improve the status of victims, particularly vulnerable ones, in particular, to prevent secondary victimisation of repeated trauma and stigmatisation. V. He expresses his gratitude and respect to all those who seek to help and support victims of sexual violence. VI. He asks the Ministry of Justice of the Czech Republic to conduct, through the Justice Academy and other bodies, the education of judges in court proceedings with perpetrators and victims of sexual violence. VII. He asks the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic to educate members of the Police of the Czech Republic on access to victims of sexual violence with a special focus on access to the Police of the Czech Republic when the victim of sexual violence announces the crime. VIII. It asks the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic to prepare methodological material for primary prevention of sexual violence by the beginning of 2022 and to develop standards for primary prevention providers in the field of sexual violence. IX. It asks the founders of primary and secondary schools to provide education through all available methods between pupils and students in Czech educational establishments on prevention and the result of sexual violence and to ensure that education in the area is regularly carried out in educational establishments in the following years." Finally, I would like to say, and I believe that I am now speaking not only for myself, that rape is such a serious crime that it deserves the attention of this House. I must honestly tell you, my colleagues, that the stories of victims of sexual violence have caused me enormous emotions and I feel insurmountable opposition to the perpetrators of these acts. On my part, that's all now. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to a cultivated discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u9	Thank you for this introductory word. The honourable Member has agreed to become rapporteur, so I will ask her to take her place at the rapporteur's table and to follow the debate and proposals from there. Before I move on to the priority rights that I already have four, I would still ask the club presidents or their representatives to consider some kind of agreement on how we're going to continue at a time that would normally be intended for lunch breaks, because there are quite a lot of applications. Mr Michálek, then President Okamura, then President Pekarová Adamová, then Minister of Justice and then Mrs Černochová. President Michálek now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all aware of women's concerns. We've all read surveys that show that rape is one of the things women fear most, even if it is a problem that affects both women and men. I mean, for us, for the Pirates Club, we clearly support better regulation of the relevant facts in the Criminal Code and that this is a matter that we have been dealing with for a long time. It is not just a case of one person, but it is a systemic approach, because we are in cooperation with organizations dedicated to victims of sexual violence, so we have begun to address this issue. Already in winter, we asked the Parliamentary Institute to process the review of other EU countries in relation to the definition of the facts of the rape crime, so that it produced a relatively high quality material that could be one of the entries into the informed discussion of what the resulting legislation should look like. [[12.20 hours]] I also wanted to invite you to a seminar that will take place on this issue. I believe that we will use the time space we have created to put together a proposal that can already be discussed at that seminar. The Constitutional and Legal Committee today agreed that in July we would hold a seminar on sexual violence under the auspices of the Constitutional and Legal Committee. There we would like to invite criminal lawyers, representatives of both justice and organisations working with the victims of these crimes, lawyers who have experience, and there would also be presentations of analyses based on data on the imposition of penalties, comparative analyses from other Member States of the European Union, and I think it would be an appropriate space where we could already present some resulting variant. I think that on today's constitutional-legal committee, the view was that fundamental changes to the criminal code should not be made in a few days or in quotation marks on their knees, but that this is an issue that we want to deal with thoroughly, to find a consensus between both professional and political parties, so that we can achieve a result that will persist. So at least we pirát will definitely be part of the task force that arises to prepare such a proposal. There are a few different variations, but we all know that we need to think in detail about the facts so that we can actually create something that will help the victims and it will not just be a media output that we would present. So, in comparison, it is certainly possible to look at the different variants that European states have in the definition of rape crime, whether it is a sign of fact that sexual intercourse has taken place, or even through disapproval, or also a version of consent. Of course, so that we can consider the various risks associated with the different options, so that we can really evaluate this in an informed way and choose what will be supported in the application of the legislation. I've met with representatives of organizations that help rape victims. They have expressed some concerns about making the proposal a hot needle, so I would argue here that we should really think about the proposal and not try to add it to another proposal that we have regarding international cooperation in criminal matters, where it could probably be loaded. But at the same time, I don't think the proposal is quite ready for us to discuss it this way. The Pirates Club will certainly support this resolution, as it was read here by colleague Kořanová, and our position in the debate would be explained in more detail by František Kopřiva, whom I have commissioned to deliver a more detailed opinion on behalf of the pirát on behalf of our MP. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. We will therefore continue with the priority rights before the debate is opened. Next, Vice-President Okamura has been reported, whom I do not see in the hall. [[The MP speaks at the bench on the left.]] Vice-President! Vice-President Okamura! You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in connection with the case of the coalition member Dominik Feri, who is accused of multiple rape and sexual harassment by women, there are further testimony. For the sake of clarity, I would like to clarify who forms the coalition of the CAO: It is the ODS, the KDU-ČSL and the TOP 09. The scandalous thing about all this is that perhaps the most famous Member of the SPOLU coalition and the Honorable Chairman of the TOP 09 Karel Schwarzenberg has publicly approved the negotiations of his colleague Dominik Feri. The humiliation, sexual violence and harassment, according to Schwarzenberg, is probably okay and he is not going to apologize for the behaviour of Mr Dominik Feri against women. The behaviour of former Member Dominik Feri today is completely unacceptable and totally amoral to the SPD. In the SPD movement, we are generally in favour of tightening rape sentences, see the recent case of rape of a minor Czech girl near Terezín by an illegal African Islamic migrant, for whom this repulsive rapist received a ridiculous punishment. I'll remind you, he's only been given two years, and four years after his appeal. But the maximum rate is two to ten years. So that's how the Czech courts today judge rape by an illegal African Muslim migrant who has no business being here. And if the SPD's proposals were to apply to zero tolerance for illegal migration, he probably wouldn't even be here. So, of course, given this situation, where, based on the very liberal pro-immigration policy that stands by the pro-EU parties, there are free illegal migrants moving here, of course, it was destroyed, the life of a young underage girl who is going to suffer a lifetime of trauma. From this point of view, it is, of course, necessary to tighten the rates so that they are really dissuasive. And I will remind you that the Czech Republic should still pay for some treatment from taxpayers' money to this criminal and rapist. That's a really ridiculous thing to do. It's ridiculous - it's absolutely unbelievable! I said somewhere that he deserved - and anyway, it's done in the Czech Republic, it's not illegal - I think there would be the optimal punishment for castration. That, in my opinion, is an adequate punishment. This rapist was to be sentenced to castration, which is carried out by sexual deviants in the Czech Republic. Well, he gets two years, and then it's barely four when it's hot, instead of at least ten years. So from this point of view, it is certainly insufficient and we are in favour of tightening their criminal rates. On the other hand, an assessment of each case by an individual court is always important. At the same time, it is necessary to reject the attempts of activists to effectively use the case to further deepen control of people's private lives and to implement a system of controllable consents to sexual contact. However, in connection with Mr Feri's case, other disturbing information in the media about practices resembling sexual pressure in actions organised within the activities of the Faculty of Law, Charles University. Answers to these questions must also be requested. The moral hypocrisy of self-proclaimed liberal elites is beginning to manifest itself in full nakedness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u13	Thank you. I'm going to meet the House of Pardons. Minister of Health Adam Vojtěch apologizes from 12 to 15 hours for work reasons. Mr Bělica apologizes from 15 to 19 o'clock, from 15 to the end of the period for working reasons. Mrs Červíčková apologizes between 12.11 and 19.00, respectively, until the end of the day on account of illness. Mr Jáč apologizes between 15 a.m. and midnight for family reasons. Mr Kaňkovský apologizes from the 108th meeting between 12 and 15 o'clock and Mr Lipavský apologises between 12 and 13 o'clock for reasons of work. I will also inform the House that I have received an agreement, that we would therefore continue our negotiations despite the time normally reserved for lunch break, but I would remind you that another extraordinary meeting will be held at 15 o'clock, so we will have to interrupt this meeting by 14.50 at the latest. And now with the priority right of President Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u14	Dear ministers, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear guests, after a long time we have the opportunity to have our negotiations open again, which I am pleased to hear. I would like to begin by thanking all those who are genuinely sincere and long-term on this subject, which is really very difficult, to some extent still taboo and which certainly deserve our attention. I also want to express my support for all victims of sexual violence, persecution, coercion, all other forms, and the harassment that is beyond the brunt of decent behavior, all those who are his victims, whether they are women, children or men, and whoever is on them. Believe me, the case that has arisen around our colleague Dominik Feri is not pleasant and easy for us, and I think that all of you who have a little empathy do know that this thing really is not pleasant for anyone, but it really is not pleasant for anyone. However, I would regret that all of this would make me feel that for us within the TOP 09 it is the topic that has been described here in the previous two contributions. I want to fundamentally reject this, and I think that my statements, which have been made in various media and interviews, are omnipotent and everyone can track them down. I completely condemn any violence in general, especially what is done against really defenseless people, I have great respect for the victims of sexual violence, and, as some of you know, I do not do this on the basis of a reaction to one case, one fresh case, but in the long run, even in the form of a certain detabusization of inappropriate behavior, not just what is already directly behind the criminal stage. In the same way, together with the organisations that have dealt with this topic in the long term, they have helped victims to redefine this rape crime for a long time and I have been consulting and talking and working together to change this definition in Czech law as well. I consider this to be very important precisely in view of the fact that a much larger number of victims find the courage to do what is certainly unpleasant, namely to report, deal with such a crime and continue to try to simply punish the culprit. After all, we all know that from the available data it only happens in units of percent, up to 15 percent of the victims, and that is really very little. This is what needs to be moved. However, it won't give me a chance to uncover the hypocrisy I'm feeling here. We, as Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, have long, long, long ago here between the press and the treaty, which was already approved by our government in 2016, already in the last parliamentary term. And in the five years that we were able to ratify this treaty, which is called Istanbul, the government parties didn't have to do it, and as far as all the laws offered to be amended here are concerned, I also didn't notice much effort to make it happen. The last government to deal with it was the one in which he was Minister of Justice Jiří Pospíšil, and that was a very long time ago. Let us therefore say quite frankly that the effort, which is four months before the end of the parliamentary term, so I can certainly follow up on the public debate that is already going on without our consideration, without us, without our contribution, but that we have missed the main opportunity in this parliamentary term. And I'm not pointing a finger at anybody, and I'm not saying which one of us is guilty. I'm just saying that it is and that it is fair, really fair to remind you of it here, too. Of course, I would be very pleased if the resolution proposed by my colleague is adopted. Personally, if I can be here at this point because I have to leave the House for about an hour, I will vote for him. However, it is necessary to move from just, say, a declaration to some actions and to a specific adjustment. I have also noted amendments in this area, a novelty that is being heard by the appellants and other Members present here, who should bring redefines to the Czech law, the Criminal Code, and unfortunately, it is from organisations with which I have worked on this subject for a long time, especially Amnesty International, that I already have feedback that they do not consider the proposals to be sufficient. That is why I think, as has already been said here by Mr Michálek, that the subject here deserves a really deep discussion and that such changes cannot be prepared in haste, sewed with a hot needle, but it is simply necessary to subject them to a very thorough discussion, which I would like very much if it is still in time for this parliamentary term. But let us say that from those organisations that have long been involved in this topic and which actually have it, the legislation of other countries, at least the European Union, is good to learn from the fact that we should not take a hasty step, which we will then be able to regret. When the adjustment is finally being made, let us improve it so that it really helps not to actually raise even more questions or weaknesses, but to talk about a change that, in a sense, will be so quality and stable that it will last for many more years. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the debate is not going to be very easy for many today, but I would like to ask much and ask you to be cultivated, because this subject, and especially those who are directly concerned when they have unfortunately been victims of such acts, is really very complex and delicate. And that is why I think that we should not bring in any migrants or similar matters, as the previous speaker here has tried, but I do not want to comment on it any more, which is why I think that we should abstain from the very various invectives and look at the substance of the matter as we can help this subject, and especially the victims actually really help. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. And now, Minister Benešová, with priority rights, Vice-President Černochová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u16	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to mention a few important things here for the Justice Department. You know, I don't like situations where some media-special case is being broken by a code, in this case a criminal code, criminal rates are increasing and so on. I consider this an extreme matter, and I hate to hear it. In this case, there are requirements to increase the rates of rape. I hear that, and I must warn the House here that it goes against modern trends in criminal policy, especially in Western countries, and I would not like us to join those Balkan countries. Well, that's just for starters. We are one of the countries with the largest number of prisoners. We're constantly blamed, which is why we're doing the diversions and so on. I understand that rape is a particularly serious crime, and we should not be benevolent, but we cannot also be hysterical. The professional public does not even call after raising criminal rates in this area, this needs to be stressed. And here swaying, Professor Válková, she's telling me the truth. The increase in criminal rates does not solve anything and it is necessary to focus on education, prevention and work with the family and the victims. [[12.40 hours]] I would like to stress what the Justice Department has done especially for the victims. First of all, in the framework of the 624 press, the Senate and I specifically admitted to rape victims the status of a particularly vulnerable victim. [[Parliament]] That's a pretty significant point of view and move ahead. They have the right to a free agent, they have the right to professional assistance psychologically, consulting, social advice, legal assistance and so on. In the context of printing 980 the Ministry proposes to specify the wording of § 18 para. 1 on victims of criminal offences which restrict the possibility of asking questions relating to the intimate area of the victim being questioned. [[Parliament]] I think the police are already very well trained, and as a lawyer myself, when I represented such crimes, I know that the victim's most experienced servant is always given to interrogate the victim, who works very sensitively with the victims and very sensitively interrogates them. In the gender equality strategy for the years 2021 to 2030, the Institute for Criminology and Social Prevention is then required to map and evaluate existing criminal measures applied against perpetrators of domestic violence. That's where we put these crimes. With regard to other measures, of course, the cost of psychotherapy and other professional assistance, which should eliminate the damage suffered, it is suggested that they receive legal aid, and not only legal aid, but also financial assistance. Finally, I also stress basically the protection of notifiers. Under the new law on the protection of notifiers, it is printing 1150, which went through the first reading. [[Chambers]] So here, too, the notifier of such an act, which has the characteristics of a crime, where we also place these offences, so there are certain rules that favour those notifiers. It's a ban on retaliation, mobbing, bossing, ostracizing and so on. So I think that's where the road leads. And other than that, when it comes to the rates, I've got these easy comparisons I've prepared for this House. As regards the comparison of criminal rates with foreign regulations, in particular Section 185 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty. 2 of the Penal Code, for which two to ten years of imprisonment is in danger, that is the classic rape in our country. According to the German amendment, we've got a six-month-to-five-year penalty rate here, so you see a smaller one. Danish regulation is zero to eight years, Belgian regulation is five to ten years, Swedish two to six years, Austrian two to ten years - they have the same - and Latvian four to ten years. So I don't think there's any reason to increase the criminal rates, that we're fully normal, and we're even one of those tougher states. As for the others, I was informed of the two amendments made here in the House this morning. It's the narrower one in the press and then the wider one. I don't know if they're complete, but as far as the narrower amendment is concerned, it's a clarification of the facts of the rape and sexual coercion crime, so here we consulted our legislative department and reached a certain neutral position. So it's up to you, and we won't be against it if you adjust it in this form. As far as the broader proposal is concerned, we already have reservations, and here I am giving a negative opinion. That is probably all I have to say, and I hope that you will be reasonable and that you will resolve this to satisfaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u17	Thank you. Let's keep going. Before I give the floor to the Vice-President, I will also inform the House of Pardons: Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes to us from 12.30 to the end of the day for family and health reasons, Mr Vymazal apologises today from 9 to 9.35 for personal reasons, and Mr Polanský apologises for today's meeting from 12.30 to 14.30 for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, violence against women and rape issues must not be taboo and must be a subject of public debate. This is certainly not denied, but, on the contrary, this subject is not to be politicised, abused as a pre-election theme, it must not be the subject of a race for who proposes stricter sentences or more absurd rules that should eliminate these negative phenomena. If we really want to eliminate these negative phenomena and if we want more perpetrators to be caught and affected, we need to rationalise the debate on this issue. Violent people often know their victims for a long time, they may even be directly family members, they may be family members, but they are often also mentally disturbed persons who act impulsively, under the influence of emotions, alcohol, drugs, other addictive substances or mental problems, and they certainly are, ladies and gentlemen, not deterring them from being threatened with more severe punishment. At the moment they attack, they do not think about the punishment, and rather not when the percentage of the captured and punished is low, and therefore the more strict laws seem ineffective, whether because of evidence need or because of slow courts or the inefficiency of the judiciary. Of course, one of the main reasons why the percentage of reported and punished acts of violence is low is, of course, the mistrust of victims in the judicial system and the authorities involved in criminal proceedings in general, fear of public response, of mediation, but also of evidence in these offences. And even in these respects, unfortunately, the situation will not change merely the tightening of punishments or the even more consistent and detailed regulation of interpersonal relations. The role of the law is not to correct the morale of people and society, such as to change society's view of rape victims or to give people precise instructions on how to proceed in individual situations of life, such as the need for explicit consent before the sexual act, but to give clear boundaries of what is acceptable to our society and what is not acceptable. I am not convinced that by simply introducing a definition of sexual violence based on the necessary consent, we will improve or resolve the situation, and rather I believe that this step will cause even more confusion, more questions, will lead to the need for even more detailed legislation, which is always wrong. At the same time, I do not see the guarantee that this step would reduce the number of sexual offences, add confidence to the victims and strengthen their legal status. At the same time, there is an undeniable risk of the abuse of this model to the social destruction of suspected perpetrators, which may result in comparable fatal consequences for victims of sexual violence. This simple change of legislation, which effectively carries the burden of proof on the accused, although it is often said that this is not the case, is not in my view balanced. I am not saying that the current situation is balanced or would be ideal. [[12.50 hours]] So what do we do? I believe that we must further support the area of prevention. Raising punishment is not prevention, it is only an attempt to scare away the perpetrator, but it seems unfortunately ineffective from a certain level. For me, it is much more important to speak aloud about this issue, to detabuize it, to pay attention to it, to give potential victims instructions on how to defend themselves, to provide them with support. Likewise, it is necessary to strengthen and lend a helping hand to those who become real victims to build institutions that will help them, where they will not have to be afraid to come, where they will find legal and other assistance. We also need to focus more on the functioning and effectiveness of law enforcement authorities and courts, as well as on the level of their ethics, in order for victims to meet with understanding when reporting the crime and not threaten to de-hungest them. [[Members in front of the speaker's counter are talking loudly in the benches.]] Virtue, empathy, speed and professionalism should be the cornerstone of restoring trust in the judicial system in order to discuss these very sensitive crimes as soon as possible, the victims were not dragged around the courts and, on the contrary, the culprits were quickly known and punished effectively... [[Mrs Černochová turns to the President.]] I can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u19	I understand, Madame. I'll ask all your colleagues not to disturb the speaker's desk. If there's so little of us here, it's really moving around. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Of course, there are already a number of judicatures of courts that are good to perceive, because practice is dynamic and I have not stuck in the original intentions of legislators. Last but not least, I do not in any way renounce the debate on the level of punishment, but I would welcome it in a much wider context, so that we do not repeat the mistakes in the past, when disproportion in penalties is unfortunately significant in our legal order. The ODS definitely wants to open this debate and participate in it. We should look at the criminal rates comprehensively, rethink the real harm of individual acts and negative social phenomena and determine the penalties accordingly. We want to do so, but not on the basis of political proclamations, a declaration four months before the election. We want to do so solely on the basis of expert discussions, without emotions, with impressions, not under the influence of current media cases. I would like to remind you that the ODS has also been the party in the past that has sided with the victims of violent acts and sexual violence. In 2009, it was under our government that a new criminal code was approved, which brought new categories of sexual violence offences, such as child pornography and child abuse for pornography production, or a completely new regulation of sexual coercion and the definition of penalty rates. In 2012, we then enforced a law on victims of crimes, which brought the right to professional assistance to victims - psychological, legal, social advice, various legal or health assistance programmes - which in some cases should be provided free of charge or an extension of a circle of recipients of cash aid to victims of a crime against human dignity in the sexual area and children who are victims of a crime of abuse of a entrusted person, unless they have been harmed by property. This year, we also supported the Senate proposal for the regulation of the Criminal Code, which extends the scope of the victims of crimes with the right of status of vulnerable persons as well as the victims of rape crimes, the abuse of the entrusted person and the abuse of persons living in a common home. Vulnerable victims have the right to a more sensitive investigation of the case, for example, in their interrogation there is no perpetrator, and may also have a free agent. As mayor, I see this issue as important and we try to do our utmost for victims of domestic and sexual violence in Prague 2. We are therefore dedicated to supporting victims and organisations helping victims of crimes. Last year, our town hall supported the activities of the White Circle of Security and launched a joint programme of Prague 2 - the urban part friendly to the victims, consisting of activities leading to increased awareness of citizens, officials, social workers, police officers, officers about victims of crimes, their needs, their rights, their position in criminal proceedings and their possibilities of assistance. We want to help victims of domestic and sexual violence, which can take many forms - from healthcare to legal, consulting, including representation. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that therefore the role of self-government is also very important, and also in this state can motivate municipalities, cities and regions to address this issue and find their role in helping. We certainly want a society more sensitive to violence against women and tolerating any form of violence - not only women, violence can also be done on men. We strive to improve the quality of life of victims of domestic and sexual violence by increasing the expertise, efficiency and availability of the aid system. However, we must proceed in such a way that the accepted changes are not rapid and do no more harm than good. Finally, I would like to stress that this issue cannot be perceived either at a flat rate or in black and white. I would like to see the result not only of this discussion today as a balanced state of our legislation, which will help victims of violence, but at the same time guarantee that there will be no witch hunt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, and Minister Plaga excuses his absence today from the 107th, 108th and 109th meetings for work reasons. We have not been exhausted by this, the priority right yet, Mr Bartošek, President Bartošek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. For KDU-ČSL I can say that already in 2010 and before - thanks to Jan Kasal - the people were those who came up with a proposal defining domestic violence, and I am glad that this topic, this term and this problem found a solution within our society at that time. For KDU-ČSL I can say that any form of violence, including domestic violence, whether physical, psychological, social, economic or sexual, further abuse or abuse, whether in women, men, children, seniors or in people with disabilities and particularly vulnerable, we strongly condemn this. KDU-ČSL has always stood and stood on the side of victims who often cannot defend themselves. The fact that bits, verbally injured, mentally detached, socially isolated or economically restricted, or when they are denied access to money, social contacts, for example, is something that unfortunately still happens in our society. [[13.00 hours]] I believe that we need to go back to this topic repeatedly, and we also need to condemn it, both as a society and as individuals, and it is our job to find and support, as politicians, the instruments that will address this issue, but also, above all, which will help the victims better and more, and also protect them. Unfortunately, there are still many myths in society in relation to victims of violence, for example, that if the victim wanted to seek help, or that she probably liked violence, or that violence concerns only socially weak families. A serious and very dominant myth, a mistake, is that violence does not concern a broad society. These myths, or if you want lies, are very difficult to root out, and, as a result, the victims are often afraid to solve their trivial situation. They consider it their failure, their shame, and often feel guilty. I have often encountered these cases in my previous therapeutic practice. Their fear is enhanced even more if they confide in someone, and it is often their closest ones, such as family or friends, and very often they do not find understanding and unfortunately do not trust these victims. Victims are always surprised by the situation that has happened or is happening to them. The more horrible thing is that in most cases it is a person who is known to them or is close to them in some way. And for that reason, there is also nothing strange or extraordinary that often takes several years for the victim to seek help. In the event that the victim decides to report an incident, she will have a Martyrium of interrogation to the police and in court, and it often happens that the victim regrets that she reported it at all, because these cases are often not about what the paragrafo rate is, but also about how the victims of this violence are treated. It is not always done with feeling, empathy about what happened, and it is also about some internal work and leadership and education and police members, when, for example, a woman comes up with violence on her should find someone who talks to her, a woman or someone who is specially trained for it. Unfortunately, this often insensitive approach, but I don't just want to talk about the police, but also about the other neighborhood, so unfortunately it happens that this victim is often wounded in seconds, and even this atmosphere does not contribute to the fact that victims of violence come up with the fact that they are prepared and determined to deal with it because they do not want to be repeatedly injured. Unfortunately, the trend of abuse and sexual violence is increasing, and what current statistics show is that thousands of children are considering suicide. It should be added that about 2,400 cases, such as the Safety Line last year, concerned mental problems and suicidal tendencies, and it is about a quarter of the phone calls. Often they are victims, and we talk about children, when they are victims of crimes, bullying, and rape. In such cases, we can tell these young people, children, they want to die, and suicidal tendencies see themselves as the only way out. Unfortunately, we are also part of this, and we also need to find a solution for this. Another important issue within this Safety Line is family problems, parental divorces, and, as I said, domestic violence. We also have forms of aid for victims of violence. What is used in practice is the first is the institute of expulsion, and that is the authority of the police, which can immediately banish the rapist from the residence for 10 days. In addition, the possibility of filing a criminal complaint for abuse by a person living in a common apartment or house, assistance for counseling, asylum houses, crisis lines, social activation services for families with children, assistance for the OSPODs, i.e. socio-legal protection of children, or mobile applications Bright Sky and others. My colleague, Pavla Golasowská, has been working on this topic for over a year and, as I say, on the basis of many meetings, seminars and consultations with organisations, she has been dealing with this issue for over a year and has been dealing with, for example, Amnesty International, Locika, Konsent, Safety Line and many others, which she has been preparing or preparing for these legislative changes. One of them is the exact definition of domestic violence, and that is in the law, because it turns out that domestic violence is underdefined, when domestic violence is not defined in the law and the definition of domestic violence is confused. Furthermore, a change in the definition of rape needs to be addressed. And here I am convinced that this certainly requires legislation, but it is necessary to raise our children and teenagers clearly in this spirit, that it simply does not mean no, no more is discussed and that this decision from one side or the other must be respected. It must also be said that in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time my colleague, Pavla Golasowská, has recorded an amendment to the House of Press 980, a Code of Criminal Procedure, for entrusting a child to the power of another, for dealing with children, for selling children, child prostitution, child pornography, for increasing the sentence for child pornography, for spreading child pornography on networks and for trafficking in children. There is also an amendment that wants to change the criminal penalties for the violence mentioned above, as well as for children and adults, which we still see as very low. The aggressors must be well aware of the consequences of their actions, and here I want to say that my colleague, Pavla Golasowská, is also targeting stalking. We also lack some professional experience. I believe that to those who commit violence against others, I think we can clearly tell them that they are bullies, so unfortunately there is currently no legislative procedure that does not address this therapy and work with bullies. There must also be a penalty for sexting. It's about the abuse of sending photos after the breakup of teenagers, and not just teenagers. Often, victims of such behavior, bullying through social networks, do not kidnap and commit suicide. We've recently witnessed this case. And even if these sad cases don't end in suicide, they're injuries that these people carry for life. It is a question of humiliation, dehonestation and, in fact, a major complication in the case of further partnerships. I believe that this is a matter that concerns most of the adolescents and younger ones, but this is something that we should also be dealing with. It is, of course, a matter of financing in practice, and here I would like to intercede for the need to find money for counseling, field services with families with children and other services to work with victims of violence. Here on my part, because I know that the budget has already been passed by the government at one reading, so that we can be aware of that. We always said in the therapeutic community that a drop of prevention is always more effective than a subsequent bucket of treatment. This means, I believe, that this is a question of prevention, but it is also a question of education in families, of value anchoring, when children should be led to honor and that violence in relationships is totally unacceptable. [[13.10 hours]] It is also our job to ensure enough experts, psychologists, therapists, social workers, psychiatrists, especially children, because it turns out that this problem needs to be addressed in childhood, in primary schools. This involves, for example, a lack of help for abused and abused children. There is only the Prague centre of Locika and I believe that this professional workplace would be important to have in each region. And I also believe that no matter who will be a government coalition in the future, that this is not a political issue, but that it is a purely human and valuable issue and that a permanent public campaign should be held, because it is important to prevent, educate and also promote family life. Something we can change the laws, we can adapt paragrafo texts, but alpha and omega are our role models, us as adults, how we treat each other in families, how we treat each other, and that's what I think is our biggest task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u23	Thank you, and since I have no further applications with priority rights, I am launching a general debate in which we have 12 applications. Before I give the floor to Mr Janulík, I will introduce you to the apology of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Jakub Kulhánek, who apologizes to us from 13:00 to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, the very thin right side of the hall, well, why did I join the debate? The answer is simple. Unlike you, almost everyone, because I don't see Professor Svoboda here, I've investigated a lot of rape victims in my professional life, so I'm sure you'll allow me to say that I've got a better idea than all of you who do here... at least I'm evaluating the previous speakers who talk about it, so of course, women are women, they see it with a woman's eyes, of course. I've got a man's point of view, but, of course, the expert one, so that's why I'm taking the liberty of doing it. To begin with, I would simply evaluate the performance of my previous speakers: we saw the defiles of priority rights again and all agreed on one, showed us here master pons asilinus, I would say directly pons elephantinus that it was not even a donkey, but the elephant bridge that slightly deviated from the subject, they got to what they wanted. [[asinorum]] [[elephantin]] I understand they don't like the medicine. It's their own medicine, because I don't know how many - perhaps dozens - extraordinary meetings have taken place here, and, of course, from the overwhelming majority, it's a meeting called by an opposition to anything, and now, of course, the situation is turning a little bit. I understand my colleagues are uncomfortable with this, but as I'm saying, it's their own medicine, so they have to bear it. And I would say that the fact that I have to say, my colleague Bartošek doesn't yell here all of a sudden, he talks calmly, with a minor tone like that, and I'm used to the fact that he's always yelling at us, and most importantly, he explains to us what kind of people we've been saying that we've approved this or that. And all of a sudden, it's all that the eye wouldn't stay dry, it's nice, it's beautiful amateur performances, everyone here complimented their parties, how those parties actually did for those victims a long time ago and they're doing it and how great it's all been, how supportive and supportive things are here and so on. So I really have to say from my practice that when it happens, every advice is good. These rumors that it's inconvenient, or that people are afraid to report it - the issue is so scary complicated, drags around the whole history of humanity, and it's a fight, from my point of view of medicine, it's a battle of the brain cortex and ancient brain structures that are responsible for reproduction. That's just the way it is, and the moment the cerebral cortex loses, what shouldn't happen, at least not in the 21st century in civilized societies. We know for sure that today there are states and companies that have it differently, which have it in quotation marks I would say the old-fashioned way, but the issue is very complex. I certainly don't think that I would agree with my fellow speakers and colleagues that there is nothing to be done here about the mere adjustment of the sentence. I think that progress has made it a little better to show evidence, because DNA analysis makes it possible today to make a lot more precise, trace the perpetrator's person and so on and so on, because rape testing itself is very difficult and very difficult to import anything if DNA analysis is not there. It is not an easy thing to do, especially given that we want to expand the concept that it was - the old-fashioned one - that they actively defend themselves and express disapproval physically. We want to expand it to say verbal things, where the resistance really is expressed only verbally, because it can really happen, and I have also experienced it and heard that a woman says that she is so shocked that she is not capable of anything, because fear for life, for saving a bare life, is stronger. In fact, even in the case of the victim, these atavisms and our instincts, when we fear for our lives. So it's very complicated to take it legally. You know, the law is just to say that I'd say the morality that's written, and on the other hand, I have to say that if those individuals, the perpetrators, aren't exactly antisocial, like the environment of children's homes, someone raised them, and the person who raised them - mostly the man is born by a woman, a mother, and she's supposed to raise him, she instills in him some principles, opinions. So I see the beginning of something there, because if this guy doesn't have the boundaries set - and I see how kids are being raised today, that there aren't practically anything to them, just like our generation was setting those boundaries, and I always say in exaggeration that when they ask me what my opinion of the child's physical punishment is, that I was physically punished as a child when I deserved it, and it didn't turn out so bad - so it's also... I consider it a kind of biological behavior, and it's very difficult to change. Neither do the laws, and we know from medical practice that even dictators can't change the biological behavior of homo sapiens. And here we are touching the very roots of our development, our being, and it's very difficult. And you say to politicize it and so on before the election - you're the champions, you politicize everything, and especially before the election you put the aftertaste, the connotation, you make everything a policy and a problem. And now, of course, you're calling for it not to be made politically, because it's cold on a rock. You chose an individual obviously immature, whom you adored and made an idol out of him, and he couldn't bear his responsibility. I read somewhere about the connotation that if the whole thing hadn't snapped, that person could have become a lawyer and worked in the whole system of law enforcement agencies, justice, and so on -- that's just about as spicy as it gets. [[by]] But on the other hand, there's something everywhere. Let's look at the problems of the clergy, it's dealt with in many states, abuse and so on. The company's just going awfully fast somewhere other than, of course, the laws always respond to it ex post, and here it's obvious, because the legislator didn't count on X years ago that there are chemicals that you put in someone's drink to ensure their defenselessness. That just wasn't what was supposed to happen. Today it's easily accessible and easy to use, such things, and even police officers will tell you that they're seeing it more and more often, and the experience of people who don't even have a memory track on something like this, so of course it's often - from experience I'll say it's even worse than when they remember some unpleasant act. But the fact that he doesn't really know what was going on, the helplessness is not only physical, but also mental, absolutely absolute, it's never been counted on in history. And now there are available and commonly available such substances that will simply deprive you of the possibility of reacting to anything and you won't even remember it. We use them, of course, in medicine, but, as I say, they're easily exploitable. [[13.20 hours]] I know it's just very uncomfortable. And it's coming at a time like this, and we didn't make it up. You guys keep saying how you do, but we've been through this. We wanted to, and it was your side -- the seven dwarfs aren't sitting here from the top anymore -- so you just wanted to deal with it, and you haven't figured it out yet. I can't really hold it against you because it's so complicated and so difficult. My colleagues warn me that there is a lack of it, that it may not only be for women, that it can be for men, because there are such cases and there are not as few of them as we would have thought. Even those men could be the victim of that. But, of course, I... It's quite appropriate. But as my colleagues say, I'd warn against spilling a baby out of a bathtub. I would consider it carefully as in the pharmacy's dragonflies, I'm sure I won't be leaning towards increasing the punishments. That doesn't solve anything. Just if someone crosses the border, the fact that there's gonna be somebody else's rate isn't gonna stop him. But I have to say from practice that these brutal acts that we've seen forty, thirty years, they're not that common these days, they're more like the new species that I've been talking about. And we also have to realize that there are cases - and there are not very few - when it is used I would say directly to blackmail - that this act may just happen, after some agreement and that it will be paid for, and that agreement is then not respected and the agreement will report it as rape or use it for extortion and so on. And it's so hard to judge, it's so hard to prove, it's really hard to say, and then it's mostly a claim against claims, and so on. All I'm saying is to be aware of what's behind it, because it's easy to read somewhere from Google, and if someone, some pie maker, you read it here, but it's really, really complicated. Plus, I'm saying, there's always two sides to the coin, because there's men sitting here, there's women sitting there, calling for balance, and so on. So let's consider, let's consider. I don't know what we're gonna do when it's just the last X years this esteemed House has not been able to do anything essential. Just... really tell me, in the words of the founder of the ODS from your mouth, it sounds almost charming to me that it shouldn't be politicized and that we should approach it responsibly and politely and so on and so forth. I said, my eye wasn't dry. Really, if we were to pay you back the same coin as you were to us, you'd be surprised, but I guess that goes somewhere else. So I have so much to say about it. It's not easy, it won't be easy. I don't think we can crack it in any way today, but it's a good thing that the debate started and hopefully some meaningful end will find it, because we're obliged to respond at least to the fact that the changed situation against the lawmaking that was decades ago, and who knows what it will bring next year and next year, what possibilities are emerging. Look at the immense accessibility of pornography. That was simply not conceivable in the days of our youth. It's basically a normal part of children's lives nowadays, and no one can do anything about it. I say, very hardly any parliament will affect the laws, the nature, the biological nature of the homo sapiens and its biological behavior. That's very difficult, that's what the dictators tried. I like to say that I can make an amendment to the law of gravity here, and we can approve it here, but it doesn't change the fact that I'm gonna fall and break my mouth. Thank you. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. Let me point out that the whole name of the point that we didn't fit on the board is tightening the sentence for violent behaviour against women and other possible victims and unconditional sentences for rape. Now Mrs Černochová wanted to respond, but I must apologise to Mr Kopřiv, who was signed up with priority rights. The Member only wants to respond with a factual point - with priority rights. In that case, my colleague Kopřiva takes precedence with the opinion of the club of the Czech Pirate Party. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Court of Justice and the appellant of the resolution. I think statistics on the number of convicted rapes committed and reported, so we have read and heard many times over the last week: as it has already been reported, about 5 percent of the cases are reported from the estimated 12,000 a year that will take place in the Czech Republic. Up to 70 percent of the victims seek no help at all, i.e. neither the police nor, for example, any field social workers or psychologist and so on. Many times we also hear questions about why she didn't fight back, why she didn't scream, why she didn't report it, why she went to the apartment or to the party with him. Myths and reasoning fouls are repeatedly explained and refuted, we will hear that many more times today. So instead of other statistics, I would like to read three specific stories that you can - and others - find on the web without punishment.cz. The first story: "My ex-husband was a textbook manipulator. When we first started together, he acted like the most amazing guy. But gradually there began to be remorse, suspicion, bans, outbursts of anger, beatings. It took seven years. Even though one day he beat me so hard that I had to go to the ER, the next day he came in like he wanted to have sex. It disgusted me at first, and I cried at it, but he called me names for it. Later, I lived through it by just trying to turn it off like I wasn't there. When the criminal proceedings started, someone kept asking me if I was defending myself and why I didn't fight, over and over again. I was exhausted from it, and I had every desire to ask the court if they would consider kicking in the stomach as foreplay." Another story: "I started dating a friend before graduation. I told him at the beginning that we could do anything together, just not classic vaginal intercourse. I had my reasons for doing so, as a child, I experienced abuse. But my friend, I was ashamed to say it, so I didn't explain my decision to him. At first, it was fine, he respected me. But then he got more and more upset. Even the guys in the gang had weird hints at him. They said I was just trying to be interesting, and I don't really have a problem. After about six months of a relationship, he just did it to me, even though he knew clearly that I didn't want it to be like this. I couldn't do anything. I wasn't defending myself, I was just lying there. I never expected him to be capable of such a thing. It made me feel awful. I broke up with him right after. I'm alone until now, and I can't even imagine letting anyone near me again." The last illustrative story reads: "A few months ago, I was invited to my classmate's movie evening, where in the end a few people stayed for a sleepover. We were in apartment four. Two friends slept on the bed, I slept on the couch, and down on the mattress was a friend I didn't even have a special conversation with at school that night. In the middle of the night, he pulled me off the couch and started stripping me. I was paralyzed and unable to defend myself. In retrospect, I don't know why I couldn't stop him. I talked about what happened this morning. My friends didn't believe he raped me. Then why didn't I scream and fight back? He denied forcing me into anything. But I knew I didn't want to have sex. I was just shocked by what was happening. Even after a long time, I still feel horrible, abused, dirty. It hurts me to access the neighborhood." Ladies and gentlemen, what brings these three stories together? In all these cases, but others have had sexual intercourse, or as the law interprets, directly to coitus without a woman wanting to. Neither of the acts described is, according to the current definition, qualified as rape in legislation. The definition of actual, definition of rape only involves cases where sexual intercourse was forced either by violence or by threats of violence, by threats of other harm, or when the perpetrator abused the victim's defenselessness. Yeah, but the courts don't consider defenselessness in this case a condition that describes as many victims as freezing, freezing, paralysis, when the victim out of fear or shock surprising, unexpected situation simply is unable to show opposition. Neither physically nor verbally. [[13.30 hours]] Today's legislation simply envisages cases of objective external pressure on victims such as unconsciousness or fainting, strong drunkenness, or when they are children or, on the other hand, persons of old age or, for example, victims suffering from mental illness. But it's not a rumor or theorization, but it just happens commonly, it's a common phenomenon, it's described by both victims themselves, but mainly psychologists and experts: it's called a dissociative stupor. This is an objective condition, medically, scientifically described, where there is a significant reduction or complete disappearance of free movements and normal response to external stimuli. The examination shows no somatic causes, but there is clear evidence of a psychogenic causal relationship to a recent stressful event or problem. I'm trying to be empathetic, but I can't imagine it myself, I don't know what to compare it to. But I've also seen cases where maybe first aid is to be provided and you just freeze in the first seconds, you know, like car accident victims. I also can't imagine how I would react if someone ran into me with a machete, I don't know if I would be able to and how I would be able to defend myself, but I trust the victims that this is simply objectively impossible. Similarly, rape is not qualified in cases where the victim assumed a threat in the context of the situation or dared not to show opposition that would be legally qualified as such. That means, like, a subordinate relationship, or if it's just some celebrity character, like a film producer, or I don't know, like a supervisor, a politician, and so on. The definition of rape based on whether sex was voluntary would affect such cases. Now I'm getting to the way my honored colleagues here have mentioned what would change. Fortunately, we can inspire ourselves in many European states, they have it adjusted differently in different states, but the point is that the court interprets it according to the way it is written in the law, and the law does not have a sufficient definition at the moment. And of course we're not completely illusioned that this redefining of rape - and I don't know what it's gonna be like, I'm not a lawyer, we're gonna have a seminar, we're gonna talk about it, but there might be some change - in order to make these cases that I've read possible, and those in the Czech Republic aren't affected right now. Where the change applies, they would be affected, and I think it's fair. So this is really the point - we are not going to write the law here today, but it is also about us in the resolution, and we are going to propose amendments to the resolution by Mrs Kořanová, we would like to express the will that we want to intervene in that definition. And now I won't say a word of consent, of disapproval - and as I say, we're still going to talk about it, and I want there to be a general consensus - but it's about affecting those cases where the victim is actively opposed precisely because of paralysis. So let us not trust fear traders and disinformers who are trying to spread all sorts of nonsense about written consents or applications. Nothing like this has been introduced anywhere, of course it will not be implemented in the Czech Republic. Nobody's trying. The definition of rape is not entirely simple, but it would be an obvious change, which I hope will be a match. And the main thing is that it doesn't interfere with most normal healthy relationships and people's personal lives. No one's gonna control it. But it's really about the cases where there's going to be rape, that the victim has a defense, and that it's really convenient, that the worst cases, that the perpetrators may not get away with the condition, but that it actually be punished as other serious violent crimes. As I mentioned before, there's only a fraction of all rapes reported. And there's one more level, the possible change. So it's not just the criminal file, to punish the perpetrator, but I think it's no less important, or perhaps even more important, for the victims, their loved ones, and for the entire society, the level of protection of the victims. As has already been said here, unfortunately, victims often face stigmatisation, they are afraid of what the neighborhood will say. Then they're asked why they didn't do it differently when they were attacked, if it wasn't their own fault. Can you imagine, like, robberies? Maybe it's his own fault that he doesn't have the most expensive alarm installed and that he only has two locks instead of four? Well, that seems completely equivalent to me. We can't just blame the victims. So in order to provide protection and justice for victims, it is necessary that all those who come into contact with victims in this difficult process should have enough information and skills from lawyers in this area. We hear about cases where some judges, unfortunately, decide unqualifiedly and on the basis of some prejudices and stereotypes that I have just mentioned. Unfortunately, their education in this area is not mandatory. I myself have interrogated Minister Benešová to find out how many prosecutors and judges who have ruled these cases have not received any training in the last five years. I look forward to an answer. At the same time, I would like to oppose the Minister of Justice, who said that there are already victims - she was talking about domestic violence, I believe - so she said that the victims were protected. But I have information completely different from the victims - that, for example, in the custody courts, the victim meets the perpetrator. It just doesn't seem normal to me either when we have crimes where the victim has special protection, and then the category where he doesn't have special protection - so I don't understand why there's domestic violence and sexual violence, why it's not being enforced. Why aren't the victims protected? It is therefore necessary to declare clearly, and I hope that in today's resolution we will get to this, that sexual violence is a serious form of violence. The psychological damage of victims must not be taken lightly, as well as their stigmatisation and secondary victimisation. I think that we should agree that we are ready to try to change the definition and make a change in the definition so that the cases of paralysis, as I mentioned here, are affected. Sexual violence is also very taboo. Of course, we don't talk about him at home, they don't learn about him at school, so I'm also glad that we put both the protection of the victims and some point to education in this resolution, to educate them, to simply create such a climate in society that the victims are not afraid that society is on the victim's side and that the victims have the support of both society and hopefully this House. And so it is necessary for this topic to be a little detabused, although I understand that it may not be quite pleasant to talk about it at home, but that is why we have different methodologies here and, for example, NGOs that are trying to do so. So I hope that today we will adopt a resolution that will clearly signal that sexual violence is still a problem in the Czech Republic, whether we can create the illusions we want, so it is simply a problem given the numbers. The huge problem is that this is not being reported, that it is not being combated, and therefore indirectly sent out to society and victims a signal that it is being overlooked, tolerated, and that is unacceptable to me, because sexual violence is a serious form of violence. It's disgusting, and this signal needs to be sent out. I thank you at this point for your attention and, if necessary, in a detailed debate, I will read a new item in the resolution or an additional item in the resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u27	Have a good afternoon. Now with Mrs Jana Černochová's priority right, and Mrs Taťána Malá will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr Kopřiva, through you. Unfortunately, it is not true that ideas for different applications and experiments with them would not be. They already are, colleague. At the moment, Australia is moving the subject of involuntary sexual intercourse. The Police Commissioner of the State of New South Wales has come up with a curious solution. It proposes using an app that gives consent to sex. Politicians and women's rights organisations rejected the idea. They developed the application of consent to sex in Denmark, but they did not achieve much success in Denmark, so they seem to be retreating from it. But unfortunately, these tendencies have already been here. [[13.40 hours]] But when I applied to a debate with priority rights, I wanted to respond to a colleague, Janulík, who is not here and who, more or less, questioned that our governments, who were here in the past, might have done little for the victims of crime. It is not true, Mr Janulík, through the Vice-President. So let me give you a little education. I'm sorry if you're signing under a meeting like this, an emergency meeting where you're supposed to deal with tightening up the punishment for violent behavior, at least not studying it, and that you're actually saying stupid things here. Czech Republic: The Chamber of Deputies adopted amendments to the Senate in the Houses of the Press 624. It was an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which extends the circle of victims of crimes with the right to be vulnerable victims. Vulnerable victims will also have victims of rape crimes, abuse of a trusted person, and abuse of a person living in a common home. Vulnerable victims have the right to a more sensitive investigation of the case, for example, in their interrogation there is no perpetrator, and may also have a free agent. And guess who put the proposal in the Senate? They were Senators for KDU-ČSL, Mr. Janulík, through the Vice-President. What the ODS governments have done about rape and abuse of women: It was a new criminal code in 2009, when, in addition to previous crimes such as rape, sexual abuse or intercourse among relatives, crimes from the head of possession of child pornography and child abuse for the production of pornography were also new. In crimes against human dignity, the crimes of sexual coercion and prostitution threatening the moral development of children are being redesigned. The prison sentence was changed to six months to five years. That was when she was with the ODS government. In the same way, the circumstances for applying the amount of the penalty rate changed that if the act were committed by having sex or other sexual intercourse on a child or with a weapon, the perpetrator would be punished for 2 years to 10 years in prison. It then changed: The perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment of between 5 and 12 years of age if he commits this act on a child under 15 years of age. This principle also applies in the case of rape at the stage of the experiment, because it did not depend on the perpetrator's will if this action was not completed. Then we changed: If the act of rape is caused by death, the perpetrator will be punished by imprisonment for 10 to 18 years. That's far from it. Regulation of the Act on Victims of Crimes on the Government of Petr Nečas in 2019. Firstly, the right to provide professional assistance from the non-profit sector, probation and mediation services and lawyers registered in the Register of Service Providers, which will be provided free of charge for certain groups of victims. Professional assistance means psychological and social advice, provision of legal information, restorative programmes and legal assistance. Furthermore, it was in 2012: Expanding the circle of recipients of cash aid to victims of a crime against human dignity in the sexual area, such as rape, and children who are victims of a crime of abuse of a entrusted person if they have suffered non-property damage. Here was the right to compensation for intangible damage in the event of victims of a crime against human dignity in the sexual area, such as rape or sexual coercion, an increase in the lump sum provided. The victim's claim for damages or non-property damages against the perpetrator will be re-transmitted to the State. Again, it was our government's proposal. The injured person will also be able to ask to avoid contact with the suspect, and will then have the right to escort as his confidant during the interrogation. Ladies and gentlemen, admit that this - I tried to be brief - a brief account may clearly show that our governments were not sitting with their hands down, that we were trying to make real victims of crimes, violent crimes, can do some compensation, but also some degree of satisfaction. So I would beg that my colleagues from the government coalition here, in some form, belittle what individual Members from our benches are saying and how they actually explain what was the reason for some changes in the legislation in the past. More likely, after eight years of your reign here, you'd have to fight for this speaking counter to say what you've done for victims of violent crimes. What did you do for them? You didn't do a tenth of what we did for them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u29	Now here I have a factual remark - Zdeněk Podal. It downloads or is not present. And now, Mrs Taťána Malá will appear and Mr František Kopřiva will prepare... [[It's written on the board, but it says he's already got off.]] Not anymore, you've already performed, exactly. So Mrs Jana Pastuchová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u30	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, for the educational window and the window of praise for the ODS, I think we all appreciated it. And now I would like to return to the constructive debate that I think we are here today. At this point, I will not be conducting a technical analysis of the legal nature of the rape crime, nor will I discuss in detail the details of the adjustments that our legislation should have made, nor will I be here to discuss how scandalously some of the representatives of the TOP 09 have expressed themselves to the case, which is currently moving Czech society across all generations, but I will speak mainly as a woman and as a mother. Personally, with regard to the subject of sexual harassment and violence, I have always been much more reserved, and I have approached it by such an attitude typical of our Czech society. But my view of the events changed very significantly at the moment when I look at these actions through the eyes of the mother, the mother of two daughters and son. I'm gonna let you share three real stories, it's gonna be a little different story than what they said here. A college student comes to the examiner's office for rehearsal, knocks, he opens her door, sits down and tells the student to take her place. It is located in a small office where there is only one table and one chair. The student asks where to sit, and the examiner states: Here - and he pats on his thigh... Nothing awful unless you imagine your own daughter there. Second story from another point of view: Corporate company in which it fights for positions. An ambitious woman sends several sexually tuned text messages from her colleague's unscathed phone and accuses a colleague of sexual harassment. And the third story: The young couple enjoy intimate moments together and decide to make a video. After a while, they break up, and the tape appears on a pornographic server. You think it's awful. Unfortunately, nothing unusual these days. [[13.50 hours]] As has already been said, I fully agree that this meeting is not aimed at the new Ferigate case or the Czech Me Too case. I am certainly not one of the feminists, and I believe that the aim of our negotiations should be to signal the Czech public that we are not indifferent to this delicate subject. We should try to adapt the Czech rule of law so as to provide as much protection as possible to potential victims. Those possible victims of sexual abuse are also those who are falsely referred to as alleged perpetrators, and they need to be thought of as well. It is essential that we as legislators contribute not to tiptoe around these topics and not to taboos. In the last few weeks, I've heard a lot of stories that shouldn't happen that no one has solved, which have remained unpunished, which their victims have never reported. It's stories from high school, universities, work, happy marriages, families, corporate and Christmas parties. These are the stories of the flesh and blood people we meet, and in most cases, we never imagined that they could go through something like this. As has been said here, statistics say that up to 70 percent of sexual violence remains silent because victims do not want to experience what they have experienced before, do not want to repeat and explain, fear of victimization, also the condemnation of their surroundings. They fear that if there are no signs of physical violence on their bodies, they will not be able to prove the infringement, they will be ridiculed and exposed to social ridicule if they fail to prove what has happened. From the stories I was talking about, it is clear that sexual violence is not just bruises and wounded bodies, but, above all, painful and for years of wounded souls, impaired self-confidence and trust in the surrounding area. I think it is at this point to thank all those who are concerned with this issue and are dedicated to the victims of these crimes. They deserve attention, support and thanks. Right now is the time to ask whether we are doing our utmost to prevent such behaviour, whether the police and the authorities active in criminal proceedings are sensitively working with the victims and if the safety of the victims, who have decided to tell the law enforcement authorities, is sufficiently ensured. That is probably all I would like to tell you on this subject. And I think it's clear that "no" is "no." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u31	Mrs Helena Válková will now make a point of fact. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will be ready. Please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have used this technical remark only to rely on it, and the honourable colleague, through you, Mrs Černochová, has once again heard confirmation of what has been said here by the Minister of Justice, of what we as a government coalition in this House in the last period, I will add a second period to this. I dare say that because I am, for example, a co-author of the law that was mentioned here, the law on victims of crimes, and I know very well who stood up for him, who wrote him, how we pushed for it. But that's not what I want to talk about. Remember the Penal Code, a novel that for the first time incorporated the opportunity to have free representation, who pushed it through, especially vulnerable victims, among which are the very ones we are talking about today. One. Secondly, and I can fully confirm this here as a Human Rights Commissioner, we have adopted X documents, we have approved a gender equality strategy that has very tough measures that have been taken and which are being developed into concrete activities aimed at suppressing and preventing domestic sexual violence. We have an action programme that you have never been able to accept before 2013. On the contrary, there were constant fears that it was - I am looking badly for a word now - too much regulation. So we want regulation, we want regulation, which will minimize the risk of domestic and sexual violence, and we have done, and I really stand by it, a lot over the years. But it's not over yet. What should come, we should probably discuss at some of the proper meetings that are planned, and there we should think about whether we should take advantage of the last chance we have here, refine the deed and specify Section 185 rape and correspond to Section 186 sexual coercion to provide better protection, and make sure that judges have more specific clues than we have so far and that there is no current disunified practice that leads to the lack of sufficient use of the criminal rates that we otherwise have in comparison with Europe. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u33	I'm sorry. Mrs Jana Pastuchová will now speak. In the meantime, I'll read an apology. Mr Juříček apologizes for today's meeting from 13.30 to the end of the day for health reasons. Please, you have the floor. Mrs Olga Sommerová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to comment on this point, for which I am very pleased that it has been included - thank you to the petitioner. It's an open debate full of emotion. Some, as I heard on Sundays I think, were bothered by the fact that no House press was printed on this point, which we should actually discuss. I don't mind at all. I am glad that this topic, which is called tightening the sentence, has opened up and that we are talking about it here. Surely it would be possible to do a seminar or a round table, but would it really be so much to hear from this round table or from the seminar? I don't think so. I would very much like today's debate to help someone at this meeting, helping them not to be afraid to go and say what happened to them - we will give them courage and someone who has been hurt and can't deal with it. I would like to say that I personally had luck in my life, there were always men around me who were gallant, they held the door for me, they told me it looked good on me, sometimes they gave me a friendly hug around my shoulders. Someone may have made inappropriate jokes, but it never exceeded any acceptable limits. I don't see anything wrong with that. On the contrary, as a woman, it made me happy or happy. But every woman has it set differently - otherwise she perceives the boundaries of what is pleasant to her and what is already unpleasant, and these boundaries, I think, must be respected. Like I said, I was lucky, as Jana Pastuchová, as a woman. Jana Pastuchová was no longer so lucky as a paramedic. As a paramedic, but originally as a surgical nurse, I encountered victims of violent acts involving sexual violence. More often they were really women, but a few times there was a man. It was never a pleasant experience. One thing is an injury to the body, where you can help as a paramedic right away, but at that point there's a much worse injury to the soul, psychological trauma, crying alternates anger, helplessness, question why, why me. Rape is the worst version of violence, and the consequences can be borne by a woman or a man all his life. I don't know which one of you has met with someone who's been subjected to sexual violence in your life, and unfortunately, I do, and I have no pleasant memories of that to this day. That was my medical opinion. [[14.00 hours]] And then there's Jana Pastuchová as Mom and Grandma. I can't imagine - and it's a nightmare for every mom, every parent - that someone would hurt my daughter or my granddaughter Josefína in this way. We as parents, specifically I have a daughter, and whoever's been through it probably knows. When our teenage daughters went to disco and came home at night, I never fell asleep until my daughter arrived. But I'm saying every parent knows these feelings, I'm not just gonna say mothers, because they're fathers, too. There are often questions as to why girls don't immediately report rape to the police or confide in someone sooner. Even according to experts, but I also had the opportunity to talk to those victims, it's shame, fear, fear, what friends, colleagues, at work, in the neighborhood will tell him. As I say, every woman responds to the traumatic experience of forced sexual intercourse in a completely different way. The objective of today's debate should therefore, from my point of view, be to arouse emotions, that we have opened the debate on what sexual violence is, that we will show that "no" is simply "no" and that silence does not have to mean consent that whoever goes through "no" is a rapist. As a mom, a grandmother, a medic, but also as a woman, I will really support all the legislation that will tighten the penalties for these crimes. I know we can't erase the victims of their trauma, but at least that's how we have to help them, and I want to help them for myself. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u35	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, we will continue. Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová, Mrs Olga Sommerová, and Mrs Zuzana Ožanová will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that I welcome the resolution that Mrs Kořanová presented here at the beginning of the meeting. As we know, 7,000 women are raped here every year. This is the most widespread violation of human rights. I would like to talk here about the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, issued in 2011. It entered into force on 1 August 2014. It was signed by Commissioner Věra Jourová for the European Union on 13 June 2017. In 2018, 33 states ratified the Convention, all those from us to the west, rejecting some from us to the east. The Czech Republic signed this Convention in 2016 as one of the last. The ratification of the contract was to take place in 2018, but it is still not ratified. Prevention is seen mainly in the fight against gender stereotypes, which women socially profile as weaker and submissive to men. It seeks to take all measures to protect victims from violence by the perpetrator. What is important is that the Convention newly defines certain offences and requires States to introduce them into their criminal code. It's physical abuse, psychological abuse, dangerous persecution, sexual violence, rape, and sexual harassment. Over 70 percent of respondents here think that the current situation in the area of violence against women is a problem in the Czech Republic. Despite this, some politicians and dogmatic church circles reject the problem. They argue that the Convention is supposedly an attack on the traditional form of the family, that it is said to define the third sex, which would spoil youth in schools. This fiction in these circles continues to orbit again and again, although there is no mention of the third sex in the Convention. Of course, the concept of gender is also frightened. Gender is one of the basic sociological concepts, the use of which is important in social sciences and a long tradition. On the contrary, our greatest Protestant church, the Czech Brethren Church, is evangelical for acceptance. I would like to remind you that its members were Milada Horáková and Jan Palach. Suddenly it turns out that the dispute over this document is, like many other disputes of today's day, a policy that is a dispute about our belonging to the West or to the East, that there is a dispute between a free-minded part of society and some conservative forces. At the same time, the vast majority of people in the Czech Republic, in the Czech Republic, believe that violence against women is a problem. When we ratify the Conventions on Combating Violence against Women in Parliament, it will be an important signal for society that the State takes violence against women seriously, that it does not want to accept it. I do not understand the opponents of this convention in Parliament because I do not know if the traditional family they are lashing out means that there is no equality between men and women. I would like these opponents, mostly men, to imagine that someone will rape their friends, colleagues, wives and daughters with impunity. I don't understand when ideology triumphs over life, love and compassion for neighbor. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u37	Thank you, Mrs Olza Sommerová. Now, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová, Mrs Helena Válková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin to talk about what I wanted, it was surprising for me today - if you have noticed on the board how many women are on this subject. If we take how many are Members and how many are now reporting, it is clear that this topic is much more interested in the female part of the House than in the male part. However, this topic concerns all of us - men, women, all of us. So now on the subject itself. I wouldn't just care about violence against women. Violence is on all - men, women, and children. And besides, let's face it, this sexual violence isn't bordered by age, it's from toddlers to seniors. It should be remembered that anyone can be the target of sexual violence. Recently, there was a documentary on TV in the network. I looked at him. It was very surprising for me because I had a granddaughter at the age of 10, and it was horrible for me to watch men my age manipulate children, and, in essence, blackmail them. And what was worse, I was just looking at it at the time, looking at the Internet, reading about the penalties for their actions. She really wasn't the right punishment for what I saw on TV. I think that we really need to talk about whether or not to raise the lower limit and whether it is appropriate at all that conditional sentences should be imposed on our children for endangering our children. [[14.10 hours]] Otherwise, a woman 50 years old will respond to such violence, and she can probably handle it, but a child or a girl 20 years old can't react, she doesn't know yet that she can just act a little differently. Let us bear in mind our daughters, our sons, and let us not want anyone to commit sexual violence on them. I'm worried about my son too, not just my granddaughter. Let us recall one more case recently mentioned by many media. A tragic case happened in Belgium. The little holčička was 14 years old. She committed suicide as a result of her rape. My parents didn't know anything had happened. The argument of most people is that it should be possible to tell that they have something on their bodies that these women are injured. This little girl didn't know anything about her own parents, except that little girl, when she saw what happened - not only did she experience rape, she also experienced Internet bullying. By the way, I believe that this is also related to this topic, and it is an area that is all given to social networks and published on the Internet. Indeed, many people feel that this is acceptable until it concerns themselves. Then they find out they don't like it and they hate it. But it's become kind of a social norm to humiliate someone and put a record on the Internet about it. I believe that this is also really relevant to this subject. I know that by the end of this House's term, we will not be able to deal with this matter, but I believe that we could stir up a technical debate so that future members of this House will also deal with this violence on the Internet. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. Do you really think there's no woman or man in your neighborhood to commit sexual violence? It would be interesting if we did an anonymous survey in the House. I believe that at least 10 percent of people would respond that it has been experienced in life. But why didn't they tell anyone? Because they'd be condemned for it. They wouldn't condemn the rapists, they'd be condemned by the victims for taking the liberty of going out tonight. I think that's very wrong. I don't want to sit at home alone, I want to move freely. How many men and women, for example, go to work on night shifts? It's night, they're going to work. Why can't they go to work? Then they say why they went there, if they hadn't gone there, they wouldn't have been raped. Please, don't! Colleagues and colleagues, walking down the street, into a store or a social event simply does not mean consenting to violence. I don't want to sit at home, I want to move freely. I believe that the demostation of victims really is perhaps an even greater problem than violence itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u39	Thank you, Mrs Ožanová, now Mrs Helena Válková, with her speech, will prepare Věra Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have such ambition not to be too long. It's difficult not to comment after everything I've heard here, but I'll stick to my resolution. I would divide the issue into three areas. The first is what it really is, how true it is that there are 7 000 - only or so many - raped in the Czech Republic per year, who provides us and to what extent reliable data and statistics, as the state that has been described here, I think very well on the examples that Members have given here, through you, Janulík, but also Mrs Malá, now we have heard it in a different form from Mrs Ožanová, so what is the real reality. The answer to that is that whatever our personal stories, experiences, emotions, which is totally legitimate, we should always be based on statistics and research, in this case both criminological and other, sociological, psychological, which gives us a more objective disposition for our decision-making, more objective data. And they show us that we do not know at all how much and to what extent this phenomenon is happening in the Czech Republic in a broader sense, sexual harassment and coercion, i.e. under the Criminal Code to sexual pressure, and in the narrower, more dramatic, as everyone perceives and rightly perceives, rape. The latency of these sexually oriented crimes is extremely high for reasons that have already been presented very well here. Thus, the Institute for Criminology and Social Prevention, which is part of the organisational component of the Ministry of Justice, should certainly receive - and I think it also has in the programme, I am a member of their scientific council - not only domestic violence, but specifically sexual crime, with the fact that it should not only map the scope of the problem, but find out for us Members, even though this will already be for Members of the next Chamber of Deputies, to what extent effective penalties are imposed on perpetrators of this crime. In other words, whether, after the execution of the penalties imposed, such a perpetrator does not commit a relapse, whether a special, same crime, or a general, other crime. If we find that a milder punishment is sufficient, it is the culture of the European rule of law to cope with a milder punishment, if not, it is an objective signal for us that the penalties imposed are indeed too mild. We don't have that kind of statistics yet, especially for sexual crime. I therefore welcome the fact that this topic has opened up and should certainly be a task for the Ministry of Justice, or his Institute for Criminology and Social Prevention. As far as the other level is concerned, legislative, I don't think we have it entirely ideally. I was part of a team that prepared the already mentioned new criminal code from 2009, which is still valid, became effective in 2010, and I do not think that this is the optimal factual nature of Sections 185 and 186. Something's done better, something's done worse. It would certainly deserve a revision, even in its own way we are forced to do so by the overall atmosphere. I'm not saying that right now and right now and next week, but it's a perfectly legitimate requirement for the public to think about it and try to formulate... I would like to thank the Minister here for making her legislative team available, and we have worked relatively intensively all last week to come up with some proposals in this very short period of time that we can discuss in a more specific form. You already have them in the system within the framework of the law which is still open, will be at second reading, it is the House Press 699 which has not only international judicial cooperation. I know what I'm talking about because I took over all the amendments from Dominik Feri, which I had to study, but where there are also amendments to the Criminal Code and the Criminal Code, and not small - three major implementations. There we already have the deadlines behind us, or the deadlines that have already expired on 31 May of this year when we were supposed to implement, and, on the other hand, no longer directly related to it. So there is an open possibility if you like any of the amendments, and I have put in a proposal that I will not represent here and which is the minimum possible, and you will see whether the minimum possible will be what you would like, how you would like to improve or specify and specify the deed or not, or whether we will really leave it for the next House. So the legislative plane is not entirely optimal, and I stand by it as a criminal lawyer, regardless of the fact that it was relatively well - relatively well - that practice, namely the courts, whose caselaw clearly defined what needed coercion, included violence, was a defenceless case. [[14.20 hours]] It is these proposals that rely not only on case law, but at the same time already in the legal text that extends, for example, what Mr Kopřiva spoke about - the defencelessness of other phenomena, which are taken into account when the person paralyzed by fear for his life or health is needed, or gets into such a state because of his dependence on the perpetrators, such as the tutor-child in an educational institution, the person believed in the education of a particular person and so on. So it should be a more specific guide for the courts. This is how I get to the last, most pressing problem, and here I would like your attention, because I think there's been a misunderstanding. Our rates, as was very nicely and intelligibly presented by the Minister, are at least comparable, if not more stringent than in other European countries. But what we don't know completely, because I don't know how specific courts apply in these cases the rates that they have at their disposal. So also some of my colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement say: We will tighten it up, and here we have heard it: much more appropriate and more effective would be to make more use of these rates. And for that, we have only one instrument if we do not want to violate the principles of the rule of law and we want to respect the independence of the courts. As the former Minister of Justice, I will ask the Minister to give me a hint as to whether or not I will forget something, and a pity that Minister Blažek is not here, because he could also contribute a little bit to the mill. As Minister, when I wanted to push for something, respecting the independence of the court, I had the following instruments: meetings of regional court presidents, when I made it clear that criminal political attention is focused on sanctions that are very ununited, different and show, signaling that the criminal rates that we have in the Code of Criminal Procedure are not being used. Thus, the appeal to the Presidents of the Regional Courts to inform the Presidents of the District Courts in this way. One example for all, for example, was succeeded when we wanted to reorient - or this is too strong an expression, maybe change - criminal policy in imposing unconditional penalties in favour of financial penalties, so this was also done and it succeeded. In appropriate cases, the courts have begun imposing more cash penalties than those of the short, unconditional penalties. It is not enough, it is necessary to speak to the State Prosecutor in this way, which is a centralized system, and the Minister of Justice has many options not to order, but to recommend, to check whether what he recommends, whether others have abandoned it or whether there have actually been meetings. That's one. Second, Justice Academy. As we know, every judge has a certain career course only if he does a great job, and most of the time, he can only do that if he knows very well the new findings, the case-law of the European Court, the results of the research and so on. This is what the Justice Academy serves for, or the Justice Academy has the opportunity to focus its activities on training in this particular area, so that courts make more use of existing criminal rates, thereby tightening criminal repression, but in the right sense: not by raising criminal rates and being extreme in Europe, but by leading them in an appropriate way without disturbing their independence, to the knowledge that what the legislator is already offering in these cases must be used. Finally, the third way that I think is progressing, although it sometimes seems too slow to me, is the unification of the caselaw, when the Supreme Court has instruments at its disposal, such as acceptance in the grand plenary of certain judicatures, publication, and that is already a binding order, which - if a subordinate court does not follow the case, risks that the judgment will be annulled in the context of an appeal. [[tho]] And then, of course, it has already been said correctly here that the Czech Bar Association must also be informed, and so on. So the tools in application practice must be used sensitively, within the limits of law and constitutionality, without compromising the independence of the courts. Do not force the courts, but show them in the light of current reality that this edge of criminal repression needs to be used more and more uniformly than it has been before. I'm just checking to see if I have anything else. Just to Mrs Sommerová: well, we have yet - you have spoken about the Istanbul Convention - a shortcut that has not yet been discussed by the government, however... I have made the table myself, I have found that we are meeting precisely as regards the area of violence and prevention of violence, including sexuality, all requirements already within our criminal code, so I do not see here for this reason, I say, for this reason I do not see the necessary need for ratification of the Istanbul Convention. There are other reasons. But specifically, I think it would help to build asylum centers and others here, I'm not questioning that. However, our penal code already gives us a very decent framework for strengthening any excesses beyond criminal law. And by that I would actually, yes, come to an end with the conclusion that I thank you for allowing us to create that time space at an emergency meeting, that we have opened, even at the end of our term, this space, and we will see what fashion and time we will continue with it. But I think that our public, when they hear all those who have spoken here, will not doubt that we underestimate this issue (?). And to conclude, I simply will not forgive myself: no matter what the greatest indications are, the presumption of innocence applies to me regardless of whether it is Dominik Feri, or any other person in the Czech Republic, or I hope, I believe and will always stand by the fact that we are not talking about the case of Dominik Feri, but about the situation and reality that has evolved over the years, and unfortunately I would partly say our indifference may have been ignored and not given as much attention as should be given to it. This is also a criticism which, of course, concerns me. Perhaps I should have also tabled amendments to change the facts of rape and sexual coercion before the end of this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u41	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Before we continue, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jan Jakob between 15 and 23 o'clock for work reasons, from 9 to 11 o'clock Miroslava Vostrá for work reasons and colleague Čižinský from 15.30 due to a meeting with the elected Belarusian President. Now, Mrs Věra Adámková, Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will turn your attention a little to another point of view. Of course, I will not go into legal matters at all, that is not my place and I also do not understand. But as my colleague, Janulík, spoke here today, I am the second doctor to speak. I have to say, with these victims, that they are dominant women, but not only women, I meet in the office either during the night shift, when of course there is an overall examination, or with some distance. And I'm a man who, in all cases, honors the presumption of innocence. So we're going to talk in general, we're not going to go into any details, that's not my place. However, I would very much like us, or the next House on this matter, to take greater emphasis on prevention. [[14.30 hours]] Reason: Let's look at the profile of the perpetrator. I warn you again that this is general and it is really very generally possible to understand. The perpetrator is always insecure in some way with himself. Either it's a success at a job that's relative, or it's a look or something, and it has a certain superior role to the victim. That's how these victims really go. And this may not be just a question of appearance or a question of position at work. There's always something like this. I've rarely encountered any of these, either violence or sexual harassment, but I say, they're dominant women, but we have men in the office, even though it's not really the gros. And I really don't remember, and I've been working for a long time now, it would be that he's a failed person, on the contrary, in most cases, unless there are other things. So I would very much like to teach children in the prevention that they are separate entities that have great emphasis on themselves. The reason why you ask the victims: Why didn't you come earlier? Sometimes there is a delay of only a few hours - the act happened at seven and they bring the person here at 12 a.m. or so. So our company - and I mean it now - is rather partial to the perpetrator. The victims are mostly afraid because they are considered to instigate it, exactly what has already been said: You went there, you drank. Please, only the saints in the painting are holy. First of all. And secondly, every person has the right to a single life, so even the children have it that way. And unfortunately, I was also involved in some examinations in older children, fortunately they were not young children. But it says that they are not clearly instilled in them that they should say "no" at the cost of anything - screaming, digging and so forth. So the prevention is neglected in this direction, and we need to change that attitude. No, I'm right, and the guy who wants anything like that from me is the bad guy, not me. And so that you don't think it's just the kids, so the case is one for all of them, and that... my colleagues used to give examples, and I'm going to give you an example. Ma'am, 50 years. They moved to a cabin just outside of Prague. Sports, so she looked really much younger from behind than she was, and she left for raspberries. Unfortunately, she was the victim of the great violence of a man who was punished, living in two villages. So it turned out that he was somehow punished - yes, and this lady had to move because she just couldn't stay in that village. So that's just completely wrong. I must say, we have a completely distorted attitude towards this. I would very much like it to be corrected, because the victim is the victim and the perpetrator is the perpetrator. We can't mix it up and make some conditioners: If you hadn't gone there, if you hadn't done something. Yes, if we hadn't come here today, there was no one here. Of course, this is also one of the options. If we had a different opinion, the debates would look different too. That's perfectly legitimate, but it's just the way it is. And I would very much like one more thing to be done, and I therefore appeal to my fellow lawyers because they know how to formulate it. It's absolutely trivial for those victims that it really is in the proof process - and I say, I understand and honor the presumption of innocence, so we have to prove something to everyone - it's repeated, very detailed asking about details very much, I would say, for them either humiliating or very simply difficult moments. Of course, I don't know how to improve it legally, but I appeal very much to it, so whoever is going to continue to do it, so of course, to consider it, because some of the little things that didn't end, let's say, by great bodily harm or something like that, aren't really reported for this reason either, because the victim is going to think that he's not going to undergo this horrible Martyrium, when everyone knows about it, is going to be shaken, and that at least in this way he's going to protect himself. It is, however, at the cost of having psychologists or somatic diseases in particular, and we learn that this is actually the result of some kind of bullying or rape that it is. For the sake of clarity, of course, there's something else, and that's the victim. Everyone defends themselves, and it is true that at those 18, 19 years, especially if he is a superior, either a direct person or a person who is unbalanced with that person, these people are more or less incapable of defending themselves. And then there's one thing, and the perpetrators are doing it very seriously: they're disparaging the person they saw as a victim. So if this woman comes in and says that he's been harassing her - and I've witnessed it many times - she says, "What would I see in you? So, please, nicely, this is the thing to go very hard on, because it's a backpacker: And nothing happened. Well, it did, it didn't, of course. Age will teach you that a slap can fit very well, but not everyone is capable of it. Sometimes it's the most effective prevention, but it's hard to put in some kind of legal order. So I very much welcome this fact that we are talking about this, even if it is preceded by things that we will see as they become unraveled. And I am really going to appeal very much to everyone so that prevention with everything is really more important to be more devoted to it, and maybe even in some other ways they put more into the field, because these people really feel incapable of anything, but it is also that they feel that no one will believe them or that they will have to do very not quite appropriate things. So thank you very much for that. Thank you for the possibility of the conversation and the contributions here, and I think that prevention must definitely be incorporated into this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Věra Adámková. Mr Patrik Nacher will now appear, and Kateřina Valachová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good afternoon, Madam Secretary. Well, first of all, I would like to respond to some of the things that have been said here in the debate, and then I would like to say something about it. First of all, I've heard something here about the abuse of one case for some kind of political tip-off to this thing or something like that. I would like to strongly reject this. We have neither called an extraordinary press conference, nor after one article, nor after two articles, nor after ten articles, nor we have called an extraordinary meeting on the subject, or on that one name, I will not deliberately appoint him here as a Member or a former Member, so that - and no one will say - I will not abuse that position. That point, as you can see, is called tightening the punishment for violent behaviour against women and unconditional punishment. So we didn't really take advantage of it, and we need to do it again a few times. The second point I have to respond to is that the Istanbul Convention has appeared here several times. Here I think, colleagues, that this - at least for me - has nothing to do with it. Now we're talking about sexually motivated crimes, violence against women, while under the cape of this - the Istanbul Convention also deals with some gender... gender issues, gender stereotypes, education and so on. That's two completely different things. So do we, as long as we're debating this, we need to go below ground. This is a completely different matter, so I wouldn't have put the Istanbul Convention and its ratification here in the first place. And now for the thing itself. I've said this in a few forums, and I'm looking at the whole thing at the point of view, like I have a daughter and a son -- which in fact, I happen to have a coincidence -- a daughter who is the victim of some violent rape crime, but also a son who is the victim of a perjury charge. This is how I have to look at it and move in these boundaries. That means the rape and what leads to it. Why doesn't anyone report it, then I'll comment on it, but at the same time, there are cases of perjury, because even then, the accused is actually in the role of the victim. That's how I look at it, and I think we're moving in these boundaries. Of course "no" is "no" for me. That's how it should work under normal circumstances, and the fact that a statement of disapproval doesn't have to be based on some physical brawl or loud repeated disagreement doesn't mean it's not rape. Here are the examples. I won't hold them up. There are a number of reasons. Sometimes it's because the victim protects other people, for example, in the room next to sleeping children, grandparents, and so on. Or maybe he's in some kind of state of defenselessness, unconsciousness, or possibly some kind of alcohol rush or something like that. I think we all know about the freezing or freezing, who have ever been in a car accident or a street fight. Everyone reacts in a completely different way, and it can't be a reason to say it's not a rape, because there was no fight, physical defense, or anything like that. [[14.40 hours]] The numbers are pretty clear. If you look, some 600 rapes per year are reported according to the figures of various organizations, but the actual rape is about 12,000. According to a poll, up to 25 percent of women had experience with sexual violence, and what surprised me was even up to 8 percent of men. That means it's in the mess, we just have to deal with it. And I am glad that my colleague Barbora Kořanová came forward with this initiative, but also with the initiative of the amendment, which clearly states that anyone who, using violence, threats of violence or other serious harm, will have sexual relations with another person against her will or who does sexual intercourse with another person will take advantage of the fact that she is unable to show her will or is unable to show or resist such conduct - that is precisely a description of the situation for me so that it does not turn into consent, forms and such matters. On the other hand, we all have examples, many of them came to me too - I will not read them here as colleagues - they came to me from the other side, of course. This is where some lady wanted to leave the unnamed bank, accused a colleague of sexual harassment, and the bank's Ombudsman solved it in a way that she was granted a six-month severance grant because it was a claim against the claim. And before they went into any kind of media work, they figured it out this way. That means, there's really both these stories, so this is how you have to look at them. As far as the punishments are concerned, don't be mad at me, colleagues, perhaps the Minister here said that the punishments are similar to those in all the other countries around, but that's the theory. In practice, as I found, 40 percent of these cases end with conditional sentences, 40 percent! Then what good is it that the variance is 2 to 10 years when 40 percent of the time ends with conditional sentences? In the UK, it's 3% of such cases. So don't tell me there's an emergency, or what's the reason? Again, I'm going to remind you, and I said it, you know, at another point, and it's completely absurd that there are higher penalties for self-producing cannabis for health reasons in the Czech Republic than for rape, and I'm just going to say that here until this changes. We tried to change it here last week. Unfortunately, the amendment failed, but now we have it again. For rape, there are sometimes lower sentences than the fact that someone is growing three cannabis plants at home. Just saying it like that sounds crazy. Don't be mad at me. For me, I take this point, whether it ends today or it doesn't make it, as such, prevention and education. I agree with the motion for a resolution, I will support the nine points that my colleague Kořanová has read here, and I think it is a good thing that we talked about this here, whether we can make the amendment to the law before the elections, after the elections, anytime, because the education itself has led to some prevention and perhaps even greater courage for the victims who write to us, and maybe they will decide to take action in some way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u45	I thank Mr Patrik Nacher. Before Mrs Kateřina Valachová continues, I apologise to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Josef Hájek from 15.30 to 19.00. Now, then, Mrs Kateřina Valachová. At 14.50, I will have to interrupt the meeting, and after Kateřina Valachová's speech, I will ask the presidents of the MPs or the Vice-Presidents to agree when we will interrupt this meeting, because I have not heard any other intention yet. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Secretary, allow me, too, to comment on today's extraordinary meeting. I consider it important to speak not only for myself, but for almost seven dozen Members who supported and signed this statement on 28 May 2021, which we then wanted to respond to, so as to make it clear that Members and Members The House of Deputies is clearly behind the victims of all possible violence, especially sexually, and they do not want to be downgraded or humiliated and harmed by the victims in the future during the publication of violence. That is why we have formulated this statement, and, as I say, almost seven dozen Members and Members have joined it. This statement is, of course, still open to Members and Members. I would also like to say the important thing that, although this initiative began to emerge from the impulse that Members across the political spectrum had approached me and asked me as a lawyer, but also as Chair of the Standing Commission for the Constitution, to formulate such an opinion and statement, then Members, again across the Chamber of Deputies, wanted to join this statement. And I think it is very important that such a statement has been made and that it is a joint statement. Let me remind them here and read for these nearly seven dozen Members: "We, Members, support all victims of sexual harassment and sexual violence. We reject any form of humiliation and harm to the victims during the publication of violence. We consider it dangerous to minimize the severity of sexualized violence. We are in favour of strengthening prevention against sexual violence. We are prepared to support strengthening the rights of victims and tightening the penalty of perpetrators by law." I would like to thank all the helping organizations who have long dealt with the victims of sexualized violence and are trying to increase their protection in this area, act preventively and also change the rules for prosecuting such violence. I would also like to thank Barbořa Kořanová, but also the Minister of Justice, who, through her representatives, legislation and lawyers, has been involved in an honest and factual search for solutions. In these matters, if we, as Members, really want to make a difference and do something good, we must put our emotions aside and consider all the pros and cons, that the new rules for detecting such violence should be effective, and that is how we can reasonably adjust the punishment. I would like to remind you, colleagues, that this will be about 15 years when a large social public debate was held to strengthen the rights of victims of domestic violence, which also led to Parliament's tightening of the rules on violence, increased the protection of victims from the point of view of reporting from common homes, but also increased the prevention and education of our police and other bodies active in criminal proceedings. I wish that this joint debate and effort of ours should come to an end in a similar direction and that we should use this public debate, which we are discussing today at an emergency meeting of the House, to really improve the position of the victims in an effective way and to prevent such violence from happening in the future, or, if so, to the minimum extent possible, and to be exposed and affected as quickly as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mrs Kateřina Valachová, and since we only have two minutes, my colleague Melková wants to perform, I will give her my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. So I would also like to comment on this issue. I think I could make it, too, and if I don't make it, there's nothing I can do. It is certainly not the intention of this discussion to stir up emotions in society and to generalize the actions of individuals, but it is important to consider the mutual behavior of men towards women and vice versa. In recent weeks, we have witnessed events that are not quite common in our society, but it is a public secret that they are happening around us, or even directly to us, and that it is just the tip of the iceberg. Cohabitation in society - and I stress, I mean, mostly, the relationship between men and women - has made significant changes in the course of a period of considerable change. Women are no longer merely dependent on their husbands, obediently filling what men see in their eyes, caring for the household, for a bunch of children, fluttering around the stove all day long, and in the evening happily lying beside their men. In the past, male addiction was also reflected in their behavior toward women. It was essential to choose, subjugate, drive and control a woman. Today, however, the situation is quite different - and I add, luckily. Women are self-confident, educated, we've caught up with a lot of men, we've even overtaken something, we've held high positions, we're doctors, we're good drivers, we're great-looking, and our social status has changed fundamentally. [[Big noise in the hall.]] What has not changed, however, is the behavior of some individuals. Some still have a prehistoric sense that a woman should be conquered, in many cases at all costs. Nothing against everyone's taste, but with the influence of growing taste and some abuse their social status and working hierarchy to achieve their erotic goals. We don't have to discuss whether or not it's right, because it's clear above the sun -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u49	I will interrupt you, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u50	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-06-09-ps2017-108-01-001-001.u51	And that's for two reasons. This is because of the noise in the House - and it was not nice of you colleagues - and because we need to set up a new meeting. At 14.50 there is a proposal, in agreement with the Members' Clubs, to interrupt this point. After consulting some club representatives and the rapporteur, I propose - and it will therefore be in the protocol - that the political grémium decides on the continuation of this point at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which is proper, this item will be transferred there. I suppose it's agreed, unless the grémium is decided, that's the organizational committee on Wednesday, that it could be Thursday after 11 o'clock. But it's a political grémia thing, because I didn't have all the club presidents here. So I'm interrupting the 108th meeting, until the Gremia decision to continue it in the last week of June. Well, that's one thing. The first performer will be Mrs Melková, because she could not finish her speech, and we have three in the general debate and three in the debate in detail. We will continue at 15 o'clock, duly convened by the meeting at the request of more than 40 Members pursuant to § 51 para. Four, 109th meeting, so I'll meet you at 15 o'clock. Thank you.
