ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u1	2. Government bill on increasing income compensation in quarantine / House print 1171/ - shortened negotiations Short-term negotiations are proposed, i.e. prior to the hearing we would like to see in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I am opening the debate for a brief hearing. No one is in the debate, I am done with the debate. (The title of item number one is still shining on the board - crisis law, press 1152.) I shall make a motion for a resolution. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies states that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's draft law on increasing the compensation of income under the regulation of quarantine, Parliament's press 1171, in a short hearing." Initiating vote. Who's in favour of short-term negotiations? Who's against it? Voting number 37, Mr 101, in favour of 94, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I ask that the proposal put forward by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. [[A commotion in the hall.]] First of all, with a technical remark, the President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u2	Just an explanation. I think we knew what we had voted on, but there was a crisis law on the board, even though we voted on this press 1171. Well, just for the record, if anyone thought we were voting for a crisis law, no. In my opinion, we knowingly voted on this press and decided that we could discuss it in a situation of legislative emergency in the short term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u3	Yes, thank you for the comment. I have also read the motion for a resolution in detail. If no one objects, we will continue. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce to you the main principles of the Act on increased income compensation, the so-called 100% sickness. According to this proposal, all employees ordered to be quarantined or isolated will receive increased income compensation. As regards the period during which the staff member will receive an increase in compensation, this applies for 14 days, that is, if the staff member is quarantined without a positive test or in isolation. [[The noise in the hall is growing rapidly.]] The increase in compensation will be 100 per cent of the average reduced earnings. All employees with an income of up to 45,000 gross should not have any loss of income due to quarantine. I think it's crucial that employees or the vast majority of employees have no income lost. Overall, there are almost 3 million employees who -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so we can hear the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u6	Overall, it is 3 million employees, for which this law will not result in a fall in income in the case of quarantine or isolation. Effectiveness is also important. The law will apply to all quarantines in March and April, including retroactively. This means that if someone has been quarantined since yesterday, i.e. since 1 March, the increased refund will also apply to him. The law concerns all employees and all insured contractors, i.e. people with an employment agreement with an income of more than CZK 3,500 per month, or agreements to carry out work of at least 10,000. Businessmen, as you all already know, do not concern the proposal. They have a CZK 500 bonus per day in quarantine under the Act on Compensation. It will be even easier for employers to pay than it should have been for the original insulator. They will deduct the entire wage compensation from the premiums paid, not only the part that we increased the compensation by. Employers will be able to apply the deduction until three months after the declaration of quarantine. It is also more favourable than Antivirus, where the employer's compensation of 80 per cent is paid. This means, if I have to say it even more simply, employers will not bear any costs. All costs shall be deducted from social security contributions. So far, 80 percent of the super-gross wages from the Antivirus program have been deducted under quarantine. Of course, this means that anyone who receives an increased refund cannot be applied to him by the employer during the quarantine period of Antivirus. [[17.10 hours]] The whole design is based on infectiveness, i.e. quarantined by a hygiene or a practical physician, and concerns other infectious diseases than COVID-19, which means tuberculosis, jaundice, salmonella and so on. Of course, these are the minimum at the moment compared to the diagnosis of COVID-19. Finally, allow for the cost: for March and April we expect the costs of approximately CZK 2.3 billion for these two months. However, almost half of this is expenditure that would otherwise have been paid through the Antivirus programme for quarantine as it has worked for the last 12 months. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that you will support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u7	Thank you, Minister. The Committee on Social Policy, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to us as Parliament's press 1171/1. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u8	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on Social Policy met with this House press at one o'clock today. One amendment to this House of Press was tabled by the Social Policy Committee, which was not adopted by the Social Policy Committee. I will now read to you the resolution adopted by the Committee on Social Policy: "The resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 72nd meeting on 2 March 2021 to the Government Bill on increasing income compensation in the context of the ordered quarantine, House press 1171. After the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová, the report by Jana Pastuchová, and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a general debate be held on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19.00 at the latest on 2 March 2021; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government's draft law on increasing income compensation in the context of the ordered quarantine, Parliament's press 1171; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adaptations.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now we must decide whether to hold a general debate. [[The chairman is gonging.]] I have called in Members and Members who are not in the Chamber. We will vote on whether we want to have a general debate. I think we're ready for the vote. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting order number 38, 99 Members registered, for 81, against no one. We've approved the motion. We will therefore hold a general debate and I am opening a general debate. I don't have anyone registered in writing, and President Markéta Pekarová Adamová is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have only tabled one amendment to the Committee on Social Policy, but since then there has been time and opportunity, more than we have received in the morning, to complete other amendments, so today we will have the opportunity to make this government proposal, which I consider an unfortunate journey, to improve and to choose a path that I believe is better. That is why I would like to call this debate directly to say that we are proposing amendments, but by the time I get their reasons, a very short memory of last week. The fact that people do not report their contacts at a time when they are tested for coronavirus and have a positive outcome is considered to be a big problem in the long run and I agree that it is necessary to motivate people to report contacts and motivate them to resort to quarantine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u11	I'm sorry, Madam President. I'll stop you for a second. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. I can't hear you. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u12	This, of course, is being discussed in the public space, not only in the Chamber of Deputies, but in general, really long weeks, months, and the government finally came up with a proposal last week, which we discussed again because it came back from the Senate, which we had the opportunity to approve, and it voted for a form of assistance in the amount of a one-off contribution for the day of CZK 370. This path, as was evident here from the Senate vote, was supported by the vast majority of opposition parties. Why we did not support the original House proposal, perhaps it is not necessary to recall - the excited debate (o) that the Social Democrats in the House pushed through, and it was an effort in this law to extend the obligation of entrepreneurs, companies, employers - bureaucratic acts that we did not consider to be happy. In our opinion, the form of the sticker in a legislative emergency to such a standard is always unfortunate, but now double in the matters that we are dealing with. We know how it turned out that there wasn't one vote that you were promoting from the House, but the crucial thing is that the principle, not 100 percent of the wages lost, but 370 kroner a day, here in essence, had majority support, and only because the weight bowls were at one point, whether we were going to deal with the support of people or the support plus the bullying of companies - and many of us didn't want the bullying - didn't get the support. But I think it's the smartest way - and I'm sorry that the government didn't decide to go on its own - so that we don't just change the approach, the principle that was chosen, which we know that he had the support here, but they kept the one-off contribution, the sum of CZK 370. I have not yet managed to prepare it so quickly for the committee, but it has now succeeded, because, unlike the authorities, I do not, of course, have hundreds of employees, officials who can work on it, and therefore, until now, the amendment that returns to this principle means a change in the government path that has now been chosen recently, and an effort to reach a compromise. The trip was, in essence, already accepted within the tripartite framework, perhaps sometimes with employers' reservations, perhaps sometimes not with enthusiasm, but we just know that it was a path that was quite elegant for everyone and perhaps best for dealing with the situation. So I would like to ask you to take this road again, so that, thanks to the amendment that we have the opportunity to accept here, we will be back to a solution that has already had a great chance to go through here once, and we will have this task, I dare say, from the neck, to the people's say. [[17.20 hours]] The second path we can choose is indeed the government, but I do not consider it the best one for several reasons. Of course, trying to compensate people who already have deep pockets, perhaps, for the loss of income, so that the situation doesn't affect them in some way difficult, is certainly appropriate, but to choose the amount that wipes out any difference between them and those who still go to work, I don't see it as defensive enough, and I consider it literally a moral hazard for those who are finally at work. In short, when you're at work, you should definitely be entitled to pay, of course, no one will even discuss it, but if you don't go to work, for any objective reasons, then you should still earn or have a little less on your income, because it's just a natural principle. 90 per cent, which I propose in my amendment, I consider to be sufficiently motivating compared to the current state of 60 per cent of compensation for lost wages, but at the same time more fair to those who are in the job for shorter (?) they work, those who don't. I think it would be a better compromise from the point of view of employers, who, of course, strongly object to the 100 percent wage approach for 14 days. It is a path that would certainly be more acceptable to them, although I think they would have imagined even less, but I see it as a compromise -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u13	Once again, ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, I really can't hear you. I don't want to name it, but I believe that all of my repeated appeal... will now hear my repeated appeal and the situation here will calm down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u14	Thank you. Access must be proportional in some way. It is not possible for people who have been in the infirmary for months, cared for and cared for children who cannot go to school, often studied with them, so they receive 70 percent. Those who are on the cursarbeit, which so far takes the form of the government programs of Antivirus, too. Those who are now - or should be quarantined should be 100 percent. I consider this a completely unbalanced approach, of course motivating - and it is not easy for me to say this, I know that, of course, not everyone is - but to report contacts that are fictitious. So it's from wall to wall. When we're in a situation where people deny the contacts that are real, which have actually happened, we're actually trying to do it by motivating them to say the opposite. So loud to me as we met, even though the contact didn't happen. This will, of course, engulf even more capacity for sanitation stations and put us in a situation where they will no longer be able to trace all of them. So when we talk about this motivational element, we should also talk about how the system is prepared to do it. While the Minister of Health is not here to discuss this point, there should certainly be information on how the Regional Hygiene Stations will increase even more compared to the current state of affairs. We've been talking about this for months and months, that tracking doesn't work, that there's a lack of human capacity, although, of course, it's always trying to help, whether it's an army, whether it's the capacity of officials from other authorities who complement KHS, but it's still just not enough. Until this key problem is solved, this is just spilling the tub with the baby. [[The noise in the hall lasts, Members discuss in the noisy.]] I think--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u15	Madam President, I'm gonna interrupt you one more time. I really can't do this. Please let the discussions you hold in particular groups and clubs be held in the lobby, we can't hear them here. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u16	Thank you. So that we can just have everything in these details, which are very important details, so that they become really things that can fundamentally affect the situation. Indeed, from the experience of many, many people I can trust - these are not opinions or anonymous accounts on the Internet on various social networks, these are people I know specifically - so from the experience of many of these people I have reports of a different nature from them, for example in style: KHS did not scare me at all, even though I had a clear contact, a very close contact of the infected. Another example: KHS, when I tried to communicate my contacts honestly to everyone, already in the fourth contact I reported, said to me: That's enough, we wouldn't have the capacity for more anyway, even though I wanted to report five more honestly, because I actually met them. Most responsible people call these people themselves, that's for sure. Most of them will, but not all of them, of course. And when the authorities themselves, those in charge of it, actually motivate you not to report the contacts, and those people share their experiences with their surroundings, they get on with the whisper, then often changed - but these are experiences from my very close surroundings, which I have no reason not to trust - then how it affects people, how there can be confidence in the fact that the system can still be kicked to work. The fact that tracking is a key issue, we know from the beginning of the pandemic, it's nothing new. A clever quarantine should have been what would help keep this country running under conditions that would still be bearable, but at the same time in such a mode that we would, in essence, be limited, but functioning, including the economy. And as we can see, after a year it isn't, and the functioning of a clever quarantine that many of us have been here in her early birth pains just called stupid and different things, hasn't really improved in those months, and she's really stupid. But this is what we need to work on first. The hand in hand with this is of course the motivation of people, but the motivation must not be for false contacts to be reported, but only for real ones to be reported, so that they are still manageable with their capacity to disperse. I therefore ask for support from the amendment. Let's calmly - if there is a situation here that will not be a majority power for any version or government - take a break, let's do it again, let's get back to it, let's get back to it, rather than create some dysfunctional model here, we've put together a path that will work in practice, which will not run into the Senate, which will not come back here, and which could eventually be the second attempt, in vain attempt, to solve this matter. I want to warn you about that. I want to warn you that we're not going to get into this situation again, that nothing is going to pass, and that really is the trust of people who are in ruins, I don't know where they're going to end up. So this is an effort for a constructive, let's say, agreement that would lead to an improvement in the situation. And I would very much like to know if the government representatives could tell us exactly how KHS will be prepared, not only for tracking, but I also forgot to mention the check that those people in quarantine really keep what they have, because that is another necessary aspect. These checks can't just be tens or hundreds, but there's got to be a lot more to make sense of it. And I dare say that he's not quite up to the maximum possible right now either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u17	Before we go any further, I will ask the Chamber of Deputies again to create the terms of the hearing here. I'll be specific. It's about the CSSD, it's about the SPD, it's just what's been going on here through my three call for a speech by the President, it just can't happen again. We can't continue unless there are conditions for us to hear each other. Then I'm asking you to respect that. Thank you. It is now Mr Dominik Feri's turn, but the rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová, came forward with priority rights. Sorry, Mr. Dominik Feri has priority rights too. The chairman of the club is not present, I apologize. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr. colleague, are we going to follow the procedure, or are we going to make it a barn here, through Mr. President? [[Screams from the audience.]] I'm not ashamed. I signed up with priority rights first, that has to be respected. [[More screams.]] Please, Prime Minister Faltýnek, put your colleague to death. Thank you. My colleague here is yelling at me to let the lady go. I respect my colleague very much, but I volunteered first with priority rights. So what's... a colleague behind you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u19	Mr. Ambassador, don't respond to the screams from the audience. [[- That's right. He's laughing.]] I'm in charge of the negotiations. [[- Thank you.]] You applied first, so you got the first word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u20	Thank you. But I will be very brief, my colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we do not want to repeat the fiasco of last week, and we want to give the Chamber of Deputies the opportunity to choose from a fan of possible solutions. Two have already been introduced by our President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. I would like to imagine four more possible options that we will be voting on today. Unfortunately, when it comes to the question of how sick leave will be set, the matter has only been atrophy to the political debate on how much it will be, whether it will be 100 or 90. But my colleague, Professor Válek, and I think that this debate should be a little wider in terms of: when you order quarantine and you send people into isolation, we should also know what the rules of the quarantine are. In our opinion, this should be distinguished in the context of sickness in the sense that, for example, if I am positive, that means, if I go into isolation, we should probably motivate people to be there, not to hide it, when they have the reports that they are sick, they are infected, and there, in our opinion, variant 90, or under some circumstances - I speak only for myself - 100 percent is feasible. However, when it comes to quarantine, it means you had a positive contact and you're going into quarantine, so I think it's really very generous to give someone 100 per cent, but that's because you simply have a negative test, but according to the algorithm review or algorithm of some algorithm of the rules of quarantine and isolation, you should still be at home with a negative test, which, according to our information from the Ministry of Health, is some historical solution that has support, but we don't think it's quite right. Why should there be someone in quarantine who has a negative test and should be at home with a 100 per cent wage or more precisely 100 per cent sick? And that is why my colleague Válek and I have prepared four options that could solve this. That means, if you're in isolation, you'll be entitled to 100 or 90 percent, but if you're only quarantined, that means someone reported you, that you've met, that you have positive contact, and you're quarantined, then you'd be entitled to 80 or 70 percent. That means it's 100 and 80, 70, 90, 80 or 70. It is, in our view, a solution that reflects more both the state of the state budget, but also the experience of the labour market, that is, to achieve some balance between the need for people to stay at home when they have positive contact, or when they are positively tested, but also that the system should not be abused, in any way, such as reporting false fictitious positive contacts. That means, we have basically six possible solutions, plus the government solution, but we don't think it's entirely right for us to just say, "Whether it's going to be 100, or whether it's going to be 90, and not to tell what kind of people it's going to be." If they're people who have a real positive PCR test, or if they're people who just met someone, then they went to the test, the jm came out negative, and then they're going to be paid 100 percent. This is indeed a generosity that can take a very significant backlash, both in budgetary terms and in terms of employment policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u21	Thank you. Mrs Jana Pastuchová, rapporteur for this point. Please, you have the floor. I'm sorry now. I have overlooked the factual points, but if you would prefer the rapporteur who has applied before, I would be glad. Thank you for your generosity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u22	I can wait, but thank you. Thank you, colleague. Mr. Feri has said a lot of words to you. No one can suspect me that I would not want this situation to be resolved and that we could all return to our normal lives. Really, I don't, because I go to the ARO to serve. I couldn't right now because I was hurt, but I'm gonna go back there because people in those hospitals are falling on their mouths. Same thing, falling on their mouths, workers at county health stations. It's not enough to trace. Today we asked a few questions on the Social Policy Committee. Some have been answered, some have not. Let me give you an example: I have a positive husband, so I'm going into a 14-day quarantine with him. It's nonsense, as I know from doctors, to test PCR after two days. It is recommended on the seventh to tenth day, on the fifth to seventh day. So I'm gonna take the PCR test on the seventh day. Until then, I'm quarantined. On the seventh day, I'll be negative, I'll continue because the quarantine is extended to 14 days, I'll continue quarantine at 100 percent. On the tenth day, I'll have symptoms, so I'll take the PCR test on the eleventh day, if there's a place, and on the eleventh day, I'll get a PCR test positive. Therefore, the quarantine ends on the 11th day and I begin the 14-day isolation. That's 25 days for 100 percent. I'm gonna work at some company, a factory, I'm not gonna talk about health care here, because I believe that most paramedics are inoculated today with a second dose, so I'm not gonna be able to bring it here right now. But I'm gonna be working at some firm, and I'm gonna know that my friend is a covid positive. I'm not really into this job. I'd like to rest because I work for other employees who are already quarantined. We're on overtime, so I'm gonna make a deal with this friend that we spent the whole weekend together or with this friend. This friend is a covid positive, and as Mr Nacher told us from his practice and fact, through, if I may name it, Mr Nacher had to tell his contacts, with whom he met here, with whom he was having lunch, around him, and based on that hygiene contacted these people and they went into a 14-day quarantine. Do you think that hygiene won't believe me when I say, "Please, I've been 14 hours or two days, all weekend with a colleague or a colleague in contact with me, and I just have to go into quarantine? So I'm a little afraid of the abuse. Who's gonna check it out? Madam Secretary told us in the media that there would be a need for control. Who's gonna check it out? Madam Secretary said on the committee today that hygiene. Hygiene? They're already falling not on the hu... but on the mouth, I'll be polite. And then we were told that it was actually a matter for the Ministry of Health. But so, if I'm proposing a law and I want that control, I know I'm a government member of the YES, but now I'm asking, who's gonna control it? Hygiene who doesn't have time to check water samples now, routine agenda? We've got a colleague here, his wife's on hygiene, I'm in contact with hygiene. Or an employer? Is there an employer in HR going to check on an infected colleague? I wouldn't go, I'd probably be scared. So check-zero. Check zero. What will be the sanctions? What are the penalties for telling a lie? You can't even tell if he's lying or lying, you just can't. Hygiene will have him quarantined because the person said he was with him. What will be the sanctions? They can't even be because the health department can't tell. So that's another thing. Again, cursarbeit, I'm getting back to it. When the secretary stood here and said that a tripartite agreement was her priority, where is she now? They call me and say, "No one talked to us, we disagree." [[17.40 hours]] So I want to--I'm warning you again-- I want something to go through today, definitely. I don't want to - And I'm sorry that in one voice, in our voice, he didn't pass the proposal from Friday, I'm really sorry - and I don't want the same thing to happen today, that it's gonna fall all under the table. I don't want it. But I asked our President, Mr Faltýnek, that I would wait for all the amendments to be loaded here at second reading, and then I would ask for a break before the final vote to really, really approve what has its head and heel today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u23	Thank you. So here are the factual points. First, Mr Ondřej Veselý, then Mr David Kasal. Mr Jan Bauer, Mr Pavel Juříček, is in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, maybe it's a good thing I didn't get off until now, 'cause I'm gonna respond to both of my coworkers with a blast. I respect both, however, in this regard or at this point, I do not agree with them. As for Dominik Feri - it applies to Jana Pastuchová as well - we must ask ourselves what we are in principle interested in. I take it that in this law it is fundamental that people who can spread the disease stay at home, if possible, to motivate them to do so. Therefore, when they are to stay at home, it is ideal to provide the highest wage compensation possible, and therefore we propose 100 percent. Once it is reduced - and here it understands Dominik Feri, by your means, Mr President, because I am responding to him - if there is a reduction, there will be cases that we know now. That means people don't report the contacts, so they don't damage someone, so they don't take part of their profits. And these people really don't have enough money today. Same with Jana Pastuchová. We have to tell each other what's worse for whom. For Jana Pastuchová, there may be a worse possibility of abuse of this institute - and that will certainly happen, in which I give her the truth - but for me there is a worse possibility that someone who should be there will not go into quarantine and who would infect someone else or infect some others. That means it's about the scales, the perspectives we're looking at. From my point of view, it's better to pay ten extra people who aren't entitled to it or avoiding it than to leave two outside who will infect another 20. So that's my assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u25	Thank you. Mr David Kasal, factual point. Then, Mr Dominik Feri, also a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I would have responded to my colleague, Feri, through you. I just want to add what was said here, how these quarantines can be. Here's what my colleague Pastuchová said. But it is so that yes, you will go into quarantine, on the fifth and seventh days you will be tested, you will be negative. But someone in your family will be positive on the fifth, sixth day. And from that day on, five to seven days of new test count again and it's getting longer. So if you have, like, three or four family members, then suddenly you get to double, three or two 14 days depending on what day it's on. In practical terms, by being in the field, I understand that it doesn't get abused in quotation marks, but I don't think in practice it's gonna be possible to make a complete distinction, because we have a problem with people reporting it to us at all. Those who also want to report say, "You have overloaded lines, we are unable to call you, and they have been calling you all day long. I've got two full-time nurses there, and we're glad we're gonna write those phones down, and then we're gonna have to put it in the system, so it's a huge strain. And the same thing we talked about at Social Services about hygiene. It's not just about the number of people that we're going to put 200 or 300 people in there right now. They must be trained, please. So, at the moment when Mrs Adamová Pekarová was heard here, through Mr President, that: Give me four contacts and do not give anything else. In a number of cases, they're people at the call center who aren't hygienists as such. So they have instructions on what and how to confess, and then you can't put your hand in the fire for them to confess everything. So I'm just saying practice. I'm not saying anything else that I'm questioning how it is--
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u27	Sorry, time's up. Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri - stahovat. So with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 MP Vlastimil Válek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u28	I fully understand - and thank you, Mr President - the objections and the debate. Now I just don't know if it's related to those measures that apply today or those that will apply from 3 March. Because you probably know that the Ministry is planning a change that will be valid from March 3rd. I suppose the secretary knows what's going to happen to the change, and it reflects the change. So what's in it? If I have a family of ten, where I have, say, ten relatives who live together - that's not quite so rare, I have a wife and four children - so one gets infected, five with him in quarantine, then the ninth day the second one gets infected, five with him in quarantine, and so we're going to be a ten-man family for two, three months, and I'm wondering what the target is. That means, I understand that we don't want to risk being with a person who's infectious and isn't quarantined, but is in isolation because she's positively tested when with that person who's in isolation, there's a person who's not infected, but she's in one family, so that the other person is quarantined. I understand that. My question is - and I asked the chief hygienist about it, I asked the hygienists: Is that the approach in all infectious diseases? If I have a patient who's positive, let's say he's hepatitis, I'll quarantine him with one family of the one who doesn't have the hepatitis, and now he's in quarantine, if he gets infected, so if he doesn't get infected, he won't get infected? Is this really the case with all infectious diseases, or have we chosen a non-standard way of combining that the patient is infectious, is in isolation so that he doesn't infect others, with the fact that those who live with him in one family, in one household, so we'll see, get infected, don't get infected? It's like half-seaing, half-seaing. I would like to know - here are, through the President, much better experts, I am a theorist, or a radiologist, here are pediatricians, surgeons, there are clinics that have experience - when I read my historical textbooks on epidemiology and infectious medicine, this system is only in the case of covid. I didn't meet him in another infectious disease, that I would put in one community those in isolation, those in quarantine, and I would expect you - and in addition, a serious disease where the patient could die - to say that I wouldn't want two young people living in one home with their grandparents, which can happen. The young one gets infected, so everyone's gonna be quarantined there for two weeks, and we're gonna hope you don't get another three. I don't think that's the lucky way to go. And any way that stimulates them is not good. I'm not putting pitchforks in it. I definitely think that we need to do everything we can to ensure that those who are positive are stimulated to be quarantined and not to infect the others. I understand that I have a sum of people - not in quarantine, in isolation, I apologize for the terminology flaw - those who are not positive and yet have to be in one home with those who are in isolation to be quarantined. But we have to realize - and now I'm going to use the Prime Minister's methods: one of our sympathizers, a voter, a colleague who has an artistic body, where there are breathing instruments, 40 players, can continue to play the wind instruments during the performance. Now one of them was a covid positive - they have plexiglas between them when they play, I don't understand how it works, the orchestra, but okay. And the positive one, considering the others were playing the wind instruments with him, the 40, so hygiene quarantined them all. That means, that's how it is-- now I'm setting the example of the Prime Minister who's like this. That's an example I know again. I did it on the phone for an hour yesterday. That's how it is. They were quarantined by the hygiene, I think it was in Pardubice County, right in Pardubice. And now the 39 will have negative tests, but they will still be quarantined for 14 days, and so they will take - I'm not saying it's wrong, but the risk to increase epidemic burden or the risk that epidemics will get worse in those 39 cases that have been with this person - I don't understand why they've quarantined them, but I'm not a hygienist, I don't want to put it down, I suppose the methodology is clear, it's uniform, every hygienist in the Czech Republic would have quarantined them. But just take the logic. These 39 people have been in contact with one positive person, they're going into quarantine, they're going to be quarantined, and we're waiting to see if they have a covid in 14 days? If they have a negative test in three days, in five days, the quarantine could be over. [[17.50 hours]] That means, I think we're talking about rules that are very important here. But the rules are based on some of the Department of Health measures that concern - or methodical instruction, I don't know if any hygiene does it differently. I assume this is a uniform procedure for the whole Republic. And the question is, shouldn't we at least discuss the rules a little bit, if the rules are well and meaningfully set? Yes, most of us aren't doctors, yes, most of us are unkissed ladies. And unfortunately, those of us doctors, some of us are ordinary photographers, so we have no say in this. I understand. On the other hand, through Mr President, my colleague Kasal knows very well that if he explains to the patient - and he is a pediatrician, he has it all the more difficult because he still has parents who are often very hysterical - if he explains something about his treatment, and he does not understand it, it is not the patient's fault and it is not the parent's fault, but it is his fault because he misinterpreted it. He needs to be able to explain it to the parents, the patient he's expecting. And I would like the Minister of Health to explain this clearly to us, anyone who suggests, on the basis of the advice of experts, that I, and well, a small, stupid child, should walk away with the fact that I will say, "Ah, and may continue to teach the truth. Unfortunately, that's not happening, and that's a big problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u29	Thank you. I just have to make sure that David Kasal and Dominik Feri's application is still valid? Yes, they're new applications. So please, Mr David Kasal has the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to my previous speaker, Professor Válek, through Mr President, regarding the quarantine or isolation. So if there's really ten members, there's this disease right now, so I'd say that out of those ten members, they could really get ten, or they'd only get five, even if they're in close contact. Another problem that everyone will solve is: either they have ten rooms and they can isolate themselves, and then they can be there for 14 days, or they have one room, they'll transmit it to each other, and we can't help them. I would also like to show on this the principle of the measures that the government will declare. The government will give a general statement, but the individualities that are in each family or in any such situation create other options for this solution. So as far as 14 days or 10 days are concerned-- [[Member of the War discusses in a noose near the speaker's desk.]] So if the professor isn't listening because he's discussing it with another non-medical surgeon, but - I just wanted to say that as far as the 10-day quarantine that was, it was clearly the KS COVID, and that was where the epidemiologists prepared it, and the 14 days that have now extended were clearly the response to the more infective form that came from England and possibly South Africa. [[Laughs in the courtroom.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u31	Thank you. Mr Dominik Feri, factual point, then Mr Martin Jiránek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u32	Thank you for the floor. Well, that's quite interesting. It's a matter that I think goes beyond the debate between the coalition and the opposition, because the government sent here some proposal that deals with a sick person who is concerned with isolation and quarantine, that was yesterday. And then, today, the government will meet and change the conditions of quarantine and isolation being ordered. Well, that's a little weird. Colleagues, you knew something like this had happened, and did you see the proposal? That's interesting. That's what you got, because there's nothing on the official record, there's nothing in the eKLEP. It's just a material that we've come to in confidence, but the public has no idea about it. This means that we are deciding something here that will burden the state budget, which will change the labour market, but the general public and employers have no idea what regime they will operate under. That's a little weird. Madam Secretary, is this the case, or do we have bad information? [[Minister Maláčová at the newsstand off the microphone: I'll explain it to you.]] Thank you for explaining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u33	Now, just to be clear how we're going to proceed. There will be factual remarks in order: Members Jiránek, Běhounek, Španěl, then Minister Jana Maláčová is registered with priority, then Mrs Valachová's written application is preferred in the general debate, then Members from Jan Bauer, Pavel Juříček and Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová are enrolled. Mr Martin Jiránek's point of order is next. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u34	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Thank you. I'm with a colleague of Válek, who I've been agreeing to tell him something, so he'll listen to me. Very good, thank you. Like you said earlier about the orchestra, so if I've been doing a really good research on our expert team right now, those people aren't really gonna be quarantined for 14 days. These people are going to take a PCR test on the fifth day, and if it's negative, the quarantine is over. Or are they quarantined for 14 days? [[Unintelligible reactions from the diaper.]] Has that changed? Oh, I'm sorry. Madam Secretary will explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u35	Thank you. Mr Jiří Běhounek, with a factual remark. Mr Lubomír Španěl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u36	Mr Vice-President, colleagues, members of the government, please do not come up with any theoretical issues concerning quarantine and other matters. In two months, we need to calm down the current situation. We're discussing how to deliver the money to people who are in bad shape. If we mess this up on Friday, please don't mess it up on Mondays or Tuesdays. Let's talk business and don't invent horses. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u37	Thank you. Mr Lubomír Španěl, factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u38	Yes, thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond, by your means, especially to Professor Válek and Dominik Feri. Because we have two variables here. One variable is whether we can correctly distinguish for how long and when a negative person who lived in a positive household should go into quarantine. That's one variable. But what I don't like is if we, as a state, put someone in quarantine, we just can't give him any money other than who's in isolation. He's not voluntarily in the quarantine. And if it's a breadwinner, he'll stay with no money or 60 percent. People will do that to you by simply denying themselves and going to work. So I don't know what's more evil than that, but I don't think I would distinguish people from red and blue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u39	Thank you. A real comment by President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. I recall my question, and through the President, to Mr Běhounka: that is what will enable us to know for sure whether we do not approve of the government's horse or, therefore, when we argue, the horse modified by the amendments. In short, it is vital that the capacities of those who trace and are not logically just hygienists are immediately so increased that they can cope. That is the relevant question, the relevant thing, which is in the context of what we are dealing with here, and so far, there has not been an answer to this relevant question. I think that it is crucial and necessary for deciding which path we will put green and which option we will prefer. And since when exactly will those specific capacities in these places work. That's the key thing that's got to do with this. 'Cause otherwise, it's just an eyewitness solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u41	Thank you. Mr Jiří Běhounek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u42	Madam President, directly to you, through Mr President. Don't turn what I said, you're perfect at it. I called the horsepower what's being discussed here in things that aren't material at all. So let's put five things on the table, let's talk about them, I hear it's supposed to be done by 7:00. Some clubs want some stuff, so let's get together when we're all telling the nation we want to help them, and we're doing everything we can here to make sure it doesn't work. Well, maybe we can agree on one system. If we don't agree, it'll end up like Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u43	With priority rights, Minister Jana Maláčová, after whom President Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u44	Thank you. I will really be very brief, because time is running out. As far as quarantine is concerned, I understand that it irritates you, that it changes. But as I have explained from experts, this is always the result of the discussion of the clinical and epidemiological group at the Ministry of Health, which responds to the latest research. As I understand it, a very extensive Harvard study was published on Thursday, on the basis of which the clinical and epidemiological group discusses individual measures. On this basis, on Thursday, we approved 14 days of quarantine, Thursday night at the government, based on the opinions of these two groups, as well as 21 days in case you have a covid positive family member. However, after discussing and evaluating the relevant statistical data, it was found that those 21 days, or those plus seven days in the case of a covid positive family member, had no impact, or serious impact, on the spread of the infection, and given that this could lead to a decrease in the number of reported contacts, so today at noon, we have weakened the government's number of days in quarantine for 14 days so that it will be the same for all. It's confusing, but it's done as you go along, as you get and publish the research. I recommend monitoring Snow's outputs, because it is very detailed there, and I think the Ministry of Health is also constantly expressing itself. Personally, I think that the whole situation - the fifth day, the tenth day, and so forth - has been said here, that the quarantine could be, although it is not my personal opinion, but it is something that is discussed especially by Snow experts - that the exit from the quarantine could be confirmed if you have a negative test on the seventh day. But it's not my competence, it's a matter that's being discussed - and a negative PCR test - and we'll see how the situation plays out. But now to the substance and to the bill. Let's tell each other the second time what the goal of this initiative is. I think that the aim of this initiative is that, in the situation in which the Czech Republic is, and I will probably not quote that article CNN, American CNN, Island of Hopelessness and Darkness to get the pandemic under control. 20,000 dead, huge death rate, a daily increase of 15,000 or more, projections for the next three weeks huge. At this point, the only chance - the only chance, and I think that we should have a common interest in not having to prolong the emergency situation again in a month, I firmly hope that this will not happen and we will not have to do this - is the maximum limitation of contacts, and one of the main tools to limit contacts to the maximum is that people do not lose their self-insulation. There just can't be room for me to stay at home, that's what the proposal is. We had a proposal of CZK 370, which failed, and we were already faced with great criticism that people over 28,000 would not stay at home. And I beg you, honourable Members, during the 370 crowns a lot of people have told us: this is only beneficial for 1.4 million employees. Everyone else, and most of them, will not be motivated to stay home. So we're looking for solutions to keep people who don't have symptoms, remain quarantined or isolated, protect their surroundings, help them isolate themselves, and we're doing it in a way that's very complicated. Unfortunately, at this point, a good solution simply doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. I think it is very bad to fight a pandemic at a time when we are really critical of it, to build on mistrust of citizens and to count savings in the order of 10 million, as it has been said here, when every day it costs us to fight the pandemic and the closure of the economy of CZK 2 billion. It doesn't mean we're not economical, but at this point, we can't put this pandemic fight on suspicion, because otherwise we just can't do it. And when I am to respond to Mr Feri, the proposal - although Mr Feri said he wanted to agree - makes this extremely difficult. I think the proposal is simply completely - it leads the discussion to a completely different place. Those people, no matter if they're quarantined or in isolation, have the same responsibilities, it needs to be said, so I don't know why we should differentiate them by the amount - they have the same responsibilities. At the same time, a negative test doesn't mean the person isn't positive. That means, again, we can't distinguish those amounts from whether you're in isolation or quarantine. And that's why the quarantine is ordered, the whole proposal is based on infectiveness. So, please, once again, and I'm gonna be done, let's not lose in this bland discussion of details, and there's a lot of things that are gonna change, especially the length of quarantine, possible exit from quarantine, probably and so on, so let's not lose the main target from sight, that's that we need to find a solution where these people stay at home, if they have contact with someone who's infected, or if they're even infected themselves, or think they're - or have symptoms. [[tho]] That is the main objective and we are looking for such a solution. So let's make a deal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u45	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Olga Richterová is registered, but I do not see her here. So with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Jan Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u46	Thank you so much for the floor, Mr. Vice-President. Well, as my colleague Jiří Běhounek, some others said, "Let's make a deal today so it doesn't turn out like Friday." At the same time, we have 18 hours of 6 minutes, we have some announced breaks, including that I also announce a 15-minute break for the CSSD club, which would follow up on the break that the club of the ANO movement will take, that is, together that is 25 minutes so far. So I would precautionaryally suggest that we act as the Chamber of Deputies and vote on all proposals today after 7:00 p.m. and possibly after 21. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u47	Yes, on this proposal, Vice-President of the House and President of the Club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u48	Thank you. I'd hate to be wrong, but I think that if we're acting in a legislative emergency, the limits are more free for us there, and we just have to negotiate in any case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u49	I am afraid, Mr Vice-President, that this is not so in this case, it is only in the case of emergency. In this case, we are bound by those limits. Mr. Válek Chairman. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u50	I hope it's good news. We're definitely not taking a break today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u51	The procedural proposal was made to act today after nineteen and after nineteen. In addition to the vote, Mr Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to put forward a counter-proposal on Mr Chvojka's proposal, and that is to say only this law, because I suppose we have no problem with the issue of negotiating the isola, on the contrary, we welcome it, but we do not think that we should discuss the other things that are not related to pandemics until the night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u53	Thank you. There was a counterproposal. I will first vote on the counter-proposal, which is that after 19 or 21 o'clock we will discuss item 2, which is the point that we are open to, and then we will vote on the proposal by President Chvojka. Does anyone object to this procedure? He doesn't object. So we are voting on the fact that only this point will be discussed after 19 and 21 am I said that first we will vote on the counterproposal. [[Voice: According to Mr Chvoj's proposal.]] I asked if anyone was objecting, no one was objecting. [[Odds from the diaper.]] [[18.10 hours]] Okay, first of all, there's a check-out request. I checked you all out. Please log in with your cards again. If there is any confusion, please, let us discuss together through the speaker's desk so that we can all hear each other. [[Noise in the room, but no question.]] No, it's all clear. So we are voting on the counterproposal of President Chvojka, and the counterproposal is that after 19 or 21 hours, we will only be dealing with this point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 90 Members registered, for 32, versus 13. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the proposal by President Chvojka, when the negotiations will continue after 19 and after 21 o'clock. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, 89 Members signed in for 57, against 19. The motion was accepted. We're continuing our negotiations with the performance... Please, let's get that point back. Yes, we've already got him on the light board. [[No. 2 on the board.]] It is now time for Mrs Kateřina Valachová's speech in the general debate. Mrs Kateřina Valachová is next because electronic applications take precedence over applications from the place and written ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable ministers, ministers, I too will be involved in the debate. I confess that I am a little surprised by my colleagues' contributions so far, because the law does nothing but respond to situations that take weeks, months, virtually a whole year. Employees and employees are in quarantine, a fact that is indisputable, and until then their compensation for such a fallen salary is just 60 percent. 60 percent! And I thought that we had been in agreement for weeks, if not months, to support people who are suspicious or even quarantined or even positive, to keep quarantine and not to be afraid of wage failures, or to vote or not to vote between health and earnings, so that we wanted to support them so that for a limited period of time - it was not about changing the system, but for a very limited period of time - we would increase sickness. And now we have different ways here, that's actually what we're talking about. I would like to call for us to really find a consensus today on this increase so that they do not choose, they are not forced to choose between earnings and health, and as for the series of questions that fall here - and perhaps the main addressee is the Minister of Health or the Chief Hygiene - so it is nothing new, it was before this law, it can arise after this law, the law itself does not solve anything like this, it simply solves only that we respond to the extraordinary situation for an extremely short period of time by extraordinary means. And I would like to make a second point, colleagues and colleagues. I am not happy that if we are talking about employees and employees - and this is becoming an unpleasant tradition - so more than it was unfair to leave people in such a situation that year and not to raise sick leave, we are talking about who might possibly take advantage of what. On the contrary, if we are talking about other people and other situations, companies, businesses, businessmen, so if someone is suggesting some kind of abuse or trying to prove that everything is properly documented, he is accused of some kind of administration, annoying people, and basically insulting the condition that we do not trust him and suspect him in advance of violating something. I think it would be fair for us to choose one way or the other. It is not only possible for employees and employees to always remember that someone will abuse something and discuss general rules for everyone accordingly. That's not fair. We have completed our work successfully, the House and the Senate, in the case of our tradesmen, I am very pleased, the Minister of Finance is here. I think and I would very much like, colleagues and colleagues, to finish this work also in the case of employees and employees. And I'm saying again, we're talking about what payback is supposed to be. It's not a system change, it's time-limited, it's fair, and I think we've already agreed that we don't want people to vote between earnings and health at this time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u55	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u56	Thank you for the floor. First, a brief reaction to what just came out of the pitch. Basically, I agree that no matter what system we set up, there's always someone who's taking advantage of it. It is a pity that Mrs Valachová did not use the same argument in the crisis law as we discussed the fines, when many of us said that the vast majority of society was delaying it, and some minority... And for that, draconian sanctions are proposed. So social democracy denies itself. In one case, it is for us to deal with abuse, draconian sanctions, in the other case it says that we should not deal with possible abuse. But let's go to the bill. First of all, why did we meet today: we have to name it and we have to get back to it. We met thanks to the political arrogance of the Minister when the law could have been passed last week. It could have been approved! The Senate version was comfortable, I think it solved the problem, it was an agreement with the social partners. I have so much information that the CZK 370 increase was an agreement with the social partners. This was ready to accept most of the Chamber of Deputies, it gained most in the upper chamber of the Senate, the Senate actually anticipated an extension of the quarantine from seven to 14 days - even this proposal contained it. [[right out of 10]] However, the Minister smuggled into this agreed matter the long-term points of the socialist programme, which did not correspond to the state of legislative emergency at all, actually abused the institute. I respect that the left side has such points in the program, I don't want to argue whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, we have different opinions. But these days and weeks, putting more and more bureaucracy on poor employers' heads was just wrong, the secretary wasn't willing to accept it and led the government's majority infallibly into the wall, until it hit the wall. Then she emotionally shouted what you, who didn't vote for her genius stickers, allowed yourself. That's what we have to say. That's why we're getting back to it. And how the Minister works with us, with us, with Members and Senators. Because I knew it was going to the government, we downloaded the eKLEP material yesterday, which the Secretary of State is putting on the government. It's completely different from what we're discussing today. But something completely different. Madam Secretary will perform at the press conference at nine o'clock, with his own charm he will announce: tomorrow the House will approve it, the day after the Senate, I saved it. But it's not like that. I have some specific questions, and I would like the Secretary to answer me, so that we know what we are actually going to decide on. I think the intention to motivate people not to underestimate the symptoms, to be willing, if they have symptoms, to go into quarantine, is correct, we don't really want to do that. But the Social Democrats here repeatedly bring a dilemma that no one else brings, and they keep saying either health or earnings. I haven't heard anyone but the Social Democrats talk about these bills. I think that's the wrong question, that it doesn't stand up to each other like that. In my view, we must ensure both, as far as possible, general rules, that we protect those who need to be protected and, at the same time, to address the economic situation of these people, so that they can be motivated to protect themselves and their relatives. No one is questioning that, so please don't say that if we have someone else's opinion on a specific solution, that someone here says either earnings or health. It's just not like that. [[18.20 hours]] And that particular question, because unfortunately it is not in the material: I would like to ask the Minister if she could tell us - certainly they did detailed calculations - to compare specific impacts on a particular person who is to be quarantined. The first case, the average wage, and the second case, the median, which is really half. So I had in mind the average wage and median, and I would ask the Minister how much such a person would receive according to the Senate version, which on Friday the House refused, how much he would receive according to this version, how much he would receive according to the version of 90 per cent of the daily survey and how much, according to version 80 per cent, to know what specific amounts we are talking about, what difference we're talking about. [[Base]] Unfortunately, it's not in the material, and I'm asking why it's not there. That's the intention, the omission, no one thought we could ask, what kind of impact does that have? Because it's really important that we know whether we approve any option that has a specific impact on the income of a particular person, and I say either with an average wage or with a median. Madam Secretary says so, yes, but the material just doesn't contain it. The second question: I do not find the effects of the financial - and I do not say that this is the most important in the law - realistic, 2.3 billion for two months. Looks to me like the number's too low. I am based on this - yesterday the state budget results were published in the first two months, let's look at the implementation of Antivirus A and B. I know it's not the same, but compared to those two numbers, also in two months and this, so we're here somewhere at less than 50 percent. At the same time, it is said that employers will not be able to use Antivirus A if I have well understood the explanatory report. This means, what is the assumption of drawing from Antivirus A in March and April? I think we should know. I'm not saying it's the basic thing we're going to decide, but without the numbers, we're going blind. Madam Secretary said a moment ago, let's not be a detailist, let's not talk about detail, if we change that, and that's the wrong approach. I don't quite understand the first sentence of the bill. "This law provides for an increase in the remuneration of the employer's employees in the period' - I understand that. And then I don't understand the second part of the sentence: "the first 14 calendar days of the duration of the ordered quarantine, hereinafter referred to as income compensation." So, next question, Madam Secretary: how many days does quarantine take? What are the next days when we talk about the first 14 days in the law? Why do we have the number? A clever legislation would say: in the period of the ordered quarantine, whether it was 10 or 14, or 16, or 16. It's just that if someone changes the length of the quarantine - I don't call for it, I don't understand - we're gonna amend the bill if we go back to the 10, maybe? There will be ten days of quarantine, but the law says the first 14 days of 10 days? I find it completely illogical and unnecessary, unnecessary detail instead of a more general formulation. Another question, Madam Secretary - I think it's the fourth: have you discussed the bill with your employer? What do they think? Why doesn't it say that? We have reports from employers that they strongly disagree that you've bypassed them, that they were ready to make the deal that was in the Senate version. Something else was born here yesterday, so you didn't actually deal with employers, or you didn't: you may have told them, but you probably didn't find a match and support in this bill. Sounds like indirect shutting down of factories to me. Not direct, which the government rejects as indirect, and many employers are worried, many exporters are worried. I mean, many employers don't wait for the government, they don't wait for the law, weeks and months to test their employees without duty. That's just what a reasonable employer does, and that's not the case on one hand, there's a lot more than that. So you've talked to them who've already done the tests, what's their experience? Whether the companies where they're doing the tests are less sick or higher, whether the premise is that people will be more quarantined or not? Unfortunately, none of this is in the material. And I think that's a substantive debate, and there's no way we're gonna be sitting here till 11:30 tonight. I voted against. We're not alone here. How do the employees in the Chamber of Deputies come up with this? Are they gonna be sitting here with us till 10:00, 11:00, 12:00? I hear the government coalition wants to close the construction bill today. You can't be serious. How are these people gonna get home? Because you don't care about everything, instead of... Why were we discussing the crisis law? Why did we lose an hour? Also from the social democracy workshop, so you can't make excuses that someone else pushed you, that point in the program, and took away your precious hour of time. That's what we were supposed to start today, we were supposed to reduce the program. I think we'd go to the deal, we didn't have to debate the program for two hours, and we could have gone much further in the debate. I don't know how the bill will end up in the Chamber of Deputies today. Amendments will fall, no doubt. And when they fall, we have to think about them and figure them out. Unfortunately, none of this material contains, except that the secretary and her colleague here are walking around saying either you take care of your health or your earnings. It's just not like that, I refuse. We want to have a rational debate and have the two principles, if possible in a general form, balanced. I think it can be found. This can also be found in the debate with the social partners, but the Minister has chosen a different path. Perhaps I will be convinced and drawn up with the agreement of the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry, Transport, the Association of Tourism and Trade, and so on. I have the opposite news so far. So suddenly you're not interested in their opinion? Suddenly you're not interested in their experience, even those who have been testing for a long time? And that's actually what the government's regulation has to do, that it has to be tested in companies. One company date from 250, one date above 50. But the question is different again. Let us remember the pointless debate in the Chamber of Deputies sometime in October, in November, when we were having a heated debate here, or many of us whether vaccination should be mandatory or not. Remember what we said, Civil Democrats: the problem will be different. The problem is, those who want to be vaccinated won't stand a chance. Look at the results: after more than two months of vaccination, your government, Madam Secretary, is able to secure 18,000 vaccines yesterday, less than 3,000 on Sundays and 2,500 on Saturdays. And that's the way out of the pandemic. And suddenly the government, when it's convenient, doesn't talk about vaccination, doesn't do anything about it, and always comes up with another idea, with another recipe. Do we all remember the traffic light, the dog, the tracking, the testing? There's always something popular, it doesn't make it, it beats it with another idea, another project, and we see the results. The results aren't good and we're not happy about it. This isn't a fight against the opposition versus the government! Moreover, the government obviously doesn't want anything to do with us throwing away our ideas for months and months. Mrs Valachová here, through President Fiala, said: We have solved the tradesmen. Well, that's not true, that's not true! Maybe a welfare benefit to survive, but weeks and months here is a proposal for further remission of social and health insurance. For weeks and months, there's a proposal to extend Antivirus C. Ask the tradesmen if they feel the government has taken care of them? I suggest you ask online, not physically, it might not go well. And I'm not happy about it. Those people are desperate, and then the MP here says the businessmen are being taken care of. That's not true, really. The compensation bonus has a long-term social welfare character, yes, it is taken care of in this respect. [[Judged?]] But they are not taken care of in the sense of maintaining their business, keeping companies that have been building for years and decades. [[18.30 hours]] I've been reading the results of the state budget for February quite thoroughly today: record deficit. One would expect, perhaps he would understand, if there were massive support for employers, entrepreneurs, or employees - not so. The 86 billion deficit and direct aid to entrepreneurs and employers and employees, when I count the infirmary, is actually in units of billions in two months. And the Ministry is going to write down the tax on the acquisition of the property in 2021. So we can write for 30 more years that we have saved every month, or we have reduced revenue, because we abolished tax 30 years ago. In the same way, the Ministry accounts for the abolition of super-gross wages and tax reductions in anti-covide measures. That's not true. It was a good move, I voted for him, but it doesn't belong in the system. Plus, the drop is actually at the bottom of the estimate of what we're going to have. We only have one month, I understand that, but the results for the first month are more likely to refer to the lower estimates of the amounts that fell here. Well, two months, but the wages didn't show up until February, so one paycheck, that's what I mean. In January, payments for December were paid, so tax reductions did not have any effect on income tax on dependent activities. So we also have a problem in the state budget, and it's not caused by massive aid. I'm bohužel so. That's understandable. The government increased spending by 47 billion in two months, if memory doesn't deceive me, I don't have the numbers in front of me. Quite a heavy drop in VAT, we're not talking about it at all, I don't know why, but quite high, surprisingly for me. I didn't expect to, I'll admit it's going to be such a high drop, maybe nine billion in two months, if I remember the numbers right. And these are all things that we should be discussing calmly and wisely, and not just in a legislative emergency, with 30 minutes, 60 minutes, 90 minutes, you have to vote fast, then it turns out to be like the racing cafeteria. Sometimes it really pays, twice measure, and one time cut. This is where we could have had it approved last week. I don't understand why it's not. I think it is a complete political failure, Madam Secretary, but not only Madam Secretary, that would be too easy. I read somewhere that the suggestion that he was missing one vote. I think he had 50 votes left, not one vote left. Yes, physically, yes, but I would expect the YES movement to support the Senate version by a much larger group and to reject the House version by a much larger group than the three brave ones, who, of course, I think were right and do not have it easy right now, because some anger within the coalition is directed at them. But instead of talking about the arguments of those people who didn't support us, we just label that they don't care about health, that they care about money, and that's really bad for the debate. So, I don't think the proposal is well prepared. I'm not saying we can't fix it. Our colleagues in the upper chamber have no chance of commenting on it. And I expected that Minister Maláčová would choose a procedure that proved to be good for Minister Schillerová. It was in another law, it was not in a legislative emergency, it was a tax code where most were not found. The Madam Secretary fixed it so that it actually accommodated the upper chamber, and then it went like a butter knife. And if the secretary brought today, or yesterday, a Senate version without the stickers that the Social Democrats smuggled in, the law is now in the Senate. I'm sure, and it's almost certain that tomorrow morning the Senate would approve it or the afternoon, because it would correspond to their political opinion. Instead, the Minister chose a much more risky path - a completely different proposal, a completely different approach, suddenly all agreements with the social partners, with the upper chamber, with the unions simply fall. And we're being asked to act after 19th, 21st, and quickly send it to the upper chamber. I don't know if Madam Secretary Dostálová thinks she'll close the second reading of the building bill today, so you won't, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry, but it's not a covid law, it can be postponed. And there's going to be a long and interesting debate. And now I mean it in a good, long, interesting way, and you can't lead at 11:00. If anyone has that intention tonight, let them forget it quickly, because it's also undignified for the building bill to discuss such an important standard at night. But back to that: I would like to hear, Madam Secretary, if she can imagine a different version than that of the government. I have presented our three variants here, which is quite easy to read as amendments, meaning the Senate version of CZK 370 per day, maybe throw in the number, leave there "for the period of the quarantine ordered." I find it prudent that it doesn't have to be amended. I don't know if the end of April is the right term, I don't know, I don't know what the government's coming from so we don't get here in the middle of April, we need to update. I really don't understand where it came from, that two months would be enough. There were three, 31 Mays in the original version, weren't there? The one that hit the wall last week. Well, you see, it's just a weekend, and the secretary's gonna take the moon off. But if this place were to be justified, why it hasn't been three months, but only two... It's not there. So it's a finance issue? Madam Secretary, to use her diction, does health oppose the implementation of the state budget? I don't think so, that was a rhetorical question. Why such dramatic changes? What do you think will happen in the upper chamber? Well, I think it's gonna turn out the same way if the law doesn't go into discussion here and there's no wider political consensus. The upper chamber simply has a different political composition, and in order for the laws to pass quickly, a political compromise must be sought. We're ready to compromise, we're ready to look for him. I've presented three variants, 370, 90 percent, 80 percent, I'd like to see the calculations. Then I also want to discuss this with my colleagues, so that we know what the specific consequences will be, positive. The target here, the bill proposal, follows positive and legitimate. I just think that as it is written, it will not lead to those goals, it will lead to further disillusionment, to further loss of trust, and that would be a terrible shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u57	I now have a factual point here, it is Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Madam Secretary, let me ask you this: did you ask for factual or preferential rights? So you'd go after Mrs. Kateřina Valachová. I'll read one more apology. Minister of the Interior Jan Hamáček apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies today 2. 3. from 18 a.m. to the end of the day for working reasons. Please, you have the floor, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u58	Thank you. I just want to respond very briefly to my previous speaker. It is certainly not that it may be one of the Members who is building this, the situation of our employees in the event of quarantine and loss of income, they must vote between health and earnings. Someone might have invented it. That's the reality of the employees and the employees. They have to deal with this situation for a year, a year! And if we want to recall the figures, why unfortunately this is the choice, and not only employees and employees write it to us, but expert studies and experts confirm that this is happening, that is why we are also discussing this bill. And I think we agreed on that. But just to remind you: if anyone here has a gross wage of CZK 15,000, today he has CZK 3 738 for the current replacement in 14 days. For example, if it has 20,000, it has 4 984 crowns. If we take 30,000, that's what somebody here said couldn't survive for it, so the existing replacement is CZK 7,462. That's reality. It's 60 percent. What is the current state. Current status. And that's why we're dealing with this bill so that people who go to work and then can't go because they're sick, and we're facing a pandemic, no one can make it up so that their conditions are as honest as possible. And I wish it worked for everyone, both employees and businessmen and companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u59	Now with the right of priority, Minister Jana Maláčová and Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u60	Thank you. I thank Prime Minister Stanjur for a lot of questions. I really appreciate the factual debate, but I'd start with a little something. It's very demagogically said that we didn't support the Senate version because we wanted the changelings. It's just that it's forgotten that in the Senate version, there was such a small home for foreign vacationers. The Senate has removed the exception from the House version that if you return from foreign leave, you will be quarantined for 14 days. And we, as a government, do not think that these people should draw the tape because it is simply abuse. When someone has a foreign holiday at this critical time, they shouldn't have gotten an isola, and the Senate thought these people were supposed to get an isola. That's another 14-day vacation from taxpayers' money. And don't be mad at me, that's unfair. [[18.40 hours]] When we're talking about a possible abuse, everyone forgot about it. And for that reason, I didn't want the Senate version, because I would have to explain why, if someone came back from a foreign holiday, why the state paid for another 14-day vacation. And that's why I didn't want the Senate version. And no matter how I explained it, no one cared. That's why it crashed. And you can't explain it to normal people because they're at 60 percent. It just can't be done, it's not justified, and the state shouldn't pay for it. That's why I didn't want it. As far as the sums are concerned, you're right. I can straighten it out. Very interesting is, I will then read it, as it seems, there is almost no difference for people up to 28,000 gross between 370 crowns and 100 percent sick. As far as the drawing of Antivirus A is concerned, Mr President, we have two draw options in Antivirus A. The first one's quarantined, the first one's quarantined. And if someone is going to draw on a higher illness and they're going to subtract the entire cost of employees from social contributions, then logically they can't draw on those quarantines, but they can draw on those employees who are on the barriers, because that's also Antivirus A, that's A+, 100 percent. This has to be distinguished. This means that it is not possible to double draw from Antivirus and from social contributions to the same employee, logically. That's what it's meant, and I think it's explained enough. As far as cost estimates are concerned, I do not think that costs are underestimated. They're based on the average number of quarantines in the last few months. We took especially those intense, epidemiologically intense months in the fall. And I have to say, and now I'm sorry, I'm not sure if it's April 1.7 or 1.6 billion, no, March is 1.7 or 1.6 billion, and April is then a significant drop. The logic of the degressive is obvious. The more people isolate themselves over the next few weeks, the more this will lead to a reduction in the reproductive number, which is why the effects of the next month will be even smaller. That's why the duct tape or the sick person is supposed to be high enough to motivate everyone to isolate themselves, so the effect will be immediate. That's the logic behind it, because the spread of the disease is exponential. As far as the technical matter is concerned, on the fourteenth day of quarantine, let me explain that the first 14 days in the case of an illness receive income compensation, the first 14 days, and from the 15th day it is the sick leave paid by the State. So from this logic it's correctly written, but there's a difference: the first 14 days are income compensation, and therefore can be quarantined for a maximum of 14 days. That's what's behind it. Very good question: Have you acted with employers? Yes. Yesterday I dealt with the whole tripartite, yesterday morning. The union's position - very clear. We support, we want, we want to increase the infirmary. That's what I'm talking about. Opinion of employers: Please hold the compromise version. For various reasons... They are particularly afraid of abuse. Employers are particularly afraid of abuse. However, I argued that two years ago, when we were canceling Karen's period, employers were also afraid of abuse, and luckily, the first three days of sick leave that we renewed, otherwise I cannot imagine how we could handle the pandemic, the abuse was not confirmed. The employers' fears have not been confirmed. This means that we firmly hope that 100% of the disease or new isola will lead to the maximum management of the pandemic, that we will manage to reduce mobility, that we will manage to push the numbers to acceptable numbers in the pandemic. And then we can in the next eight weeks - March, April, that's the goal - then we can go back to normal life, where the cost of sick leave will be much lower. It's basically calculated that if we were able to push it down and the measures would be forceful in the next few weeks, then we can function normally from May and we don't have to have that high cost of sick leave. That's the logic behind it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u61	Now I'm going to ask Mrs Alena to perform... Yes, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club and Mrs. Alena GajdůGajdůšková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u62	I asked about five questions, the Minister thanked for the correct questions, answered one, the simplest one, which means employers disagree. She said so carefully, the unions are in favour, and employers say: Hold the compromise version. If we translate it into Czech, the unions were against it and employers were against it. I'd also like to ask the secretary not to use the ugly word "isolate." Really, don't put such an ugly word in Czech. Then I think the secretary mixes a few concepts together. I don't understand. people will voluntarily go into isolation. What does that mean? I really don't understand. That's what you think, so I'm going into isolation from now on? And he's going into isolation? I don't think so. I guess somebody's gonna have to put in a doctor or someone or hygiene... Isolator. You said they'd self-insulate themselves. But I don't think that's possible. It's not written like that in the law. That's what you mysticize the public. Holidays: so I didn't know that taking a foreign holiday was an abuse of the system. Staff must be quarantined when they return from vacation. Why? Who's ordering them to do that? Madam Secretary, who's ordering them to quarantine when they return from vacation? Could you answer the microphone then? Maybe I'd be wrong. I'd like to hear it. Madam Secretary said: these people will have a 14-day vacation. And the others? They'll be responsible, and I agree with that, voluntary isolation, as the secretary said, and the others will be on leave. But the principle is exactly the same, ordered quarantine. So either it is true what Mrs Valachová said, that we should not be afraid of abuse, but the Minister has already found here a group of citizens who have rudely gone on vacation, from the Minister's point of view. But I don't think so. They want to abuse the system and they want to have another 14 days of vacation. I don't know who wants to be voluntarily quarantined and who wants to have some symptoms. I think there's no such thing as wishing everyone was healthy, had no symptoms, and didn't have to go to medical school or quarantine. It's not a good news if you find out you've had some risky contacts, and now you're expecting it to come to you or not. We have older relatives, older friends, and now we're worried that we might have gotten over it, even though we're protecting ourselves as much as we can. But I do know the real cases of people who were protecting themselves all the time, and they got sick anyway. So we can't blame anyone for getting sick or having any risky contact with someone. And I'm going back to what I said this morning. We have risky contacts here all the time, and even after 19 and 21 o'clock, including our coworkers and employees. Clearly, the Social Democrats aren't thinking about it. So I'd like to return to the basic question, Madam Secretary. Compare the four versions - Senate version, 100 %, 90 %, 80 per cent of daily basis or average reduced earnings. Maybe we could also tell the citizens what it means on the microphone, because people think it's 100 percent of the net wage. So that we know how many people understand it. Now I don't know which colleague or colleague said she was taking 15,000. This is not possible in the Czech Republic this year. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] If they're part-time, then it's not worth discussing. We need to talk about normal time. It's lower than minimum wage. Well, using this as a debate isn't correct. Yes, when someone takes $15,000 a month, but they have a four-hour period, they actually take $30,000 normally. That's how I count. Otherwise, if you know someone who was 15,000, his employer is in violation of the law on a full-time basis. That's not a fair debate. We need to talk about average time, median, average wage, that's a fair debate. [[18.50 hours]] So I would like to ask for the numbers and comparisons of these variations once again before we start to submit amendments, what it means to go through the Senate version for a man who has a median. And let's not count any deductible items, it's easier. What does that mean when it passes 100 percent? What does it mean if it's 90 percent or 80? If you have a more detailed table like we had in taxes that we had 100,000 crowns, then I'm in. I only wanted two numbers, median and average wages. And I could also say here that I want 20,000, 21,000, 22,000, but I think for the basic orientation, which of these systems can be reasonable and functional, we just need the two numbers - median and average wages and the four options. I think we need to know before we start loading the amendments, so that we know what we are actually deciding, so that it is not intuitive, so that we can imagine a particular person with a specific income, how much he will take. And those first 14 days of quarantine-- I really can't take that explanation, Madam Secretary. I understand what payback is and what's sick, but if quarantine is back for 10 days, we're gonna change that law. I just don't understand. Because it's not that 14 days takes income compensation, but that 14 days takes quarantine. It's gonna end without tests, that's another debate, maybe we'll get to it. Ending quarantine in this situation without tests doesn't seem very happy to me, but it's up to the experts to discuss whether it's a good thing or a bad thing. Then what's the difference? Let's go back to testing in companies and talk about small companies, which I'm interested in. They want to test today, even if they don't have orders, but they don't have a way. [[Reactions from the O.R.]] Yeah, I see the owner of the big company here. I understand. But I got a call this weekend from some friends who have 20, 25, 30 employees, and they said, "I would buy it for those employees, but I don't know where." They don't have other people to deal with it, to organize it somehow. We asked colleagues how it is in Germany, and there it is in every pharmacy, even it doesn't pay because it pays for health insurance. In general, the principle - as if the state transferred responsibility to those companies instead of motivating them to do it voluntarily - created the conditions for it to be on the market so that we know and the employers know which one - now we have nine or ten or eleven products approved, but who advises the small businessman to use, which is more conclusive, which is not? Who's gonna advise how often? The doctors at our club say the antigen test four times a month is just not enough to wait a week, and I have no reason not to believe them. So why four times a month if experts say it's not enough? Or is it supposed to be twice a week? I don't know, but these are all big things, important things, most employers are aware that they have nothing more valuable than their employees. And as I said and recall, many have already tested and did not need the law, nor the government's orders, because they care about their employees, so let us motivate them. Let's think of an economic reward for those who do it, not just orders all the time. And if the government orders it, how will it be controlled, how will it be enforced from March 15th in every company over 50 employees? I can't imagine it at all, the system. Instead of saying: We have ensured that from 10 March everyone can buy it where they want, it will be available, we recommend this test, or this one from a medical point of view may be more expensive, but we think it's more conclusive for the owners to decide. But they don't have enough information. Yeah, the bigger the company, the better they can organize it. I understand that, it's natural, it's natural, it's good, but we have to think about the smaller ones who just don't have the options, and let's give them the option. They also want to take care of their employees, they don't need laws, they don't need orders, they don't need government regulations, they need motivation, and they need ways to do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u63	Mr Ondřej Veselý is now making a point of fact. I have one point of fact here, so Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will be prepared. So please, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u64	I'm only gonna respond to one thing where they're supposed to take tests to test employees. My wife works in a nonprofit organization that has 15 employees, she goes to a pharmacy, she buys tests for her employees, and they test themselves without a problem. I suppose Sand, which is smaller than Opava, isn't better than Opava, which means you can buy tests at the pharmacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u65	Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will now appear and Mr Jan Bauer will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u66	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return this a little bit and remind myself that the purpose of the quarantine measure is to interrupt the spread of the infection, and this is particularly true of the case, but it is true of every infectious disease. So that people would be willing and not deny that they could be infected, so quarantine is proposed at the same amount as Austria has, as Germany has, as other countries do, because it is bearable for the person, so he is able to handle it economically. Madam Secretary talked about it. Kateřina Valachová talked about it. It's pretty obvious, it's just that if this guy is supposed to be at 60 percent of his income and the family is usually quarantined as a family, then they really get to the limit of income poverty, even if they have an average or gross income of about 40,000. And we need to stop the spread of the infection. I have the union numbers and their desperate request to approve the quarantine, so we can just take all the measures we can take to stop the spread of the infection. At this point, there are 1,568 people in hospitals in a difficult, really difficult state of health. The bad situation is in the Karlovy Vary Region, out of 36 beds of the intensive care unit is 32 full, which means that they have almost no spare capacity. It is also in Liberec in the Liberec Region, in the Pardubice Region and in Pilsen they have absolutely no spare capacity. And if we don't really take every precaution to stop the spread, those factories will shut themselves down, co-workers and colleagues, because those people will just stay home, they'll be sick. And I'm not talking about where it can go. I think it is of course in the interests of the employees, but it is also in the interests of employers, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is giving a helping hand here, giving a proposal that will also help the responsible employers. There was a question as to whether county sanitation stations could handle tracking. Colleagues and colleagues, county sanitation stations work, and I bow deeply to everyone who works there. I believe if we give them a little relief, they'll manage just as much as they did in the spring. In addition, the students of the University of Tomáš Bata worked in the call centre in Zlín, they learned it, they tracked it, they helped county officials, the call center was right on the edge, they worked. I am convinced that if we slow down the increase just a little bit, the county sanitation stations, the hygienists, will be able to get back to tracking to help stop spreading. [[19.00 hours]] And I'll take one more comment after all. Because we have heard here from President Stanjura, whom I of course very much appreciate, through Mr President, what we should have done and how we should have progressed in the process that the proposal could have been approved. But today, at the debate here, it was confirmed that the rumors that the first proposal to increase quarantine or the contribution to the quarantine payment, that it was rejected because there were some other things like registering agreements and registering job vacancies, that there was no truth that they were really just proxy problems. Because today, all we've been hearing all this time is how bad it is that we want to help our employees get through this time if they get into a situation that they have to go into quarantine. I'm really sorry, and it really offends me for all the employees that here, in this House, all we can hear is the view of the employees through the tests. They're supposed to be the abusers, that's all it was. So it's really just the debate today that confirmed that there's no will, that it doesn't want the employees to help. And I'm just pointing out that it's really in the interests of both employees and, of course, employers themselves. It is a measure that is limited in time, and all we care about is dealing with the situation that is truly desperate at the moment - for health professionals, for families, for all those who are afraid of it, and perhaps we are all aware of the problems. Let us once again take your wits into the hand, approve of what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is proposing at the moment, and let us go on, please - I think there is quite a lot of work to be done here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u67	Good evening, honourable Members. Thank you, Mrs Gajdůšková. Before we continue with the applications that are from the place, I have them marked here - colleagues Bauer, Juříček and Hana Aulická Jírovcová, I have here a factual comment by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Ferjenčík. President Stanjura with a point of order. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u68	First, to Mrs Gajdůšková. The only person who spoke of abuse was Minister Maláčová, that the vacationers were taking advantage of it. I didn't use that word once, so take it up with your club. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for the tablet. [[With laughter.]] And for Mrs Gajdůškovášková, who says: Let us approve what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has brought. Madam, first of all, I'll answer immediately. [[unintelligible]] You know what the difference is for a guy who has 30,000 gross, between a senate version and what you're proposing today in 14 days? 4 crowns Czech. 4 crowns Czech is the difference according to numbers, 30,000, this is approximately the median. Yes, four Czech crowns. That's a dramatic difference, isn't it? When we talk about the low-income ones, and let's talk about them, so if someone takes 20,000, this version against the Senate version, which you could not support, brings 3 Czech crowns in 14 days, at 25,000 also 3 Czech crowns in 14 days, at 30,000 4 crowns. But be careful, since 40,000 it's getting interesting, there's an improvement of approximately 1,200 crowns. And you're always talking about low-income people. 3 crowns Czech - 3 crowns Czech - 4 crowns Czech. Well, at least read the numbers. I didn't know them, Madam Secretary sent them to me, quoting her chart. Well, I don't understand why the Senate version didn't go through. If it was to support high-income groups, say it here, I don't mind, but this is the effect. Mrs GajdůGajdůšková is shaking her head. Then tell the secretary to send you the chart. So 3 crowns or 4 crowns at 30,000. And that's the dramatic difference against the Senate version you had to reject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment, then Mrs Gajdůškovášková. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would simply like to respond briefly to my colleague Gajdůšková, because she was not telling the truth here. Indeed, we did not support this law for the sole reason that you have attached completely senseless bureaucratic obligations to it. We support this law both in the current proposal and in the Senate proposal, we will wait for what the majority here agree, and we will support that. So don't lie here. We support the law. After all, we pushed the government to present it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual remark, Mrs Valachová, Aulická, will prepare herself for factual remarks as well. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u72	Thank you for the floor. I am glad that I am only going after Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President, because I do not really understand there, because of the agreements and the fact that they are in trouble, you have spoken in particular, and we have responded to it. One. Two. I asked you to approve the version presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at this point. I know that chart. But the difference isn't in the 3 crowns, the difference, if we don't approve at this point, is 14 days, maybe longer. And those people are really waiting for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u73	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Aulická. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u74	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to respond, through you, to my previous speakers. I have to say, I couldn't be here on Friday for medical reasons, but of course I followed you very well. So it was quite unusual for me, especially the ODS and the Pirates and others, that you were dealing with the amendments that were made there by colleague Gajdůškovášková, but no one, none of this House, except us, stopped at how Minister Maláčová prepared the proposal and how difficult it was for accountants and personalists to count it, and therefore we demanded that the amount be uniform. This was our requirement to make it easy for employees and employers and, of course, for accountants to process it. That is why KSČM also supported the fact that we wanted the House version, but for the sake of adapting it. I'm still logged in for the show, so I'm gonna keep expressing myself. But don't be mad at me, my colleague Ferjenčík, by your means, Mr President, the pirát are one of those who defend from the beginning that they should be given some compensation to contractors who do not take out insurance. We say in general that it is not normal for the main employment and the main income to be below 10,000 on such a low amount. And the fact that there was this amendment that was supposed to record all these agreements and that the accountant wouldn't really burden at all, because those accountants, if they're going to pay those amounts, still have to log into the employee's or worker's system. And for them it is a click of two, three buttons and sending electronically to the Czech administration. [[Social security]] And I think that's the difference between who's supporting the dirty money that would be exposed here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u75	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, my colleague Stanjura, with a point of fact, and I'm registering... a priority right, Madam Secretary to you. You didn't check in with the facts? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u76	But it's exactly the opposite with the brokers, that's the opposite. You want to take it away from them if you make it more bureaucratic, and those people won't have a chance to make any extra money. I don't understand. You're talking about abuse again, black work, over and over again. You're the ones who still suspect everyone, employers and employees, for some blackness. It's not like that. And another bureaucratic duty. How was it supposed to help the contractors to report it everywhere? Explain that to me. It's the only thing that's gonna stop these companies from even going through with it, the other bureaucracy. Most entrepreneurs and employers are really decent, they don't give any black money. All right, that's it. That's it. Suddenly, you from the left have a mouthful of abuse. For an instrument that normally works for those who may not or do not want to go to full working hours for family reasons, it is welcome, students earn so much. Suddenly it's all black. You just scrape it up, you give more and more responsibilities, so it stops. And you're gonna push them into the black. The effect will be exactly the opposite of what you want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u77	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Válek's point of view is now in effect. I record it as factual, not as a priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u78	That will be very brief. At least Madam Secretary will be able to dispel my doubts. We were just debating with colleagues and just a construct. We want - I, of course, am alone now and I will try to vote in favour - we want as many people as possible who should be quarantined, in that quarantine, and one of the tools we want to use is their stimulus, the economic one. We think a lot of people don't go into quarantine for economic reasons. Only hygiene can get people quarantined, and we're saying that hygiene can't track and test. A practical doctor can also send you - I just want it to sound like a microphone - a practical doctor can also quarantine people. That means they're either gonna be quarantined by hygiene or by a general practitioner. Hygienes and practical doctors are counting on a surge in applications for quarantine now, and I just hope that the system of practitioners, who will now begin to vaccinate and hygiene, will not collapse as a result. That's my only minor concern, but I suppose that's thoughtful and discussed with the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u79	Thank you for keeping time. Now, with the right of priority, Minister Jana Maláčová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u80	Thank you. Yes, that's right, it's thoughtful, and since President Válek wasn't here several times when we discussed it, he probably didn't hear it. We can tell each other later so we don't delay the debate. But right now, I'd like to respond to President Stanjura. It's not true. Employers already have an obligation to record deals, but they do it on paper, they keep their records, and we want those records to be electronic. It's two clicks. Because then we will know how much these people have made and how long we will be able to help them fairly in the next crisis. Because a year ago we heard here: Help even uninsured brokers. But how is the state supposed to see how much they've made, how long they've worked, what amounts? It is the record of agreements that is supposed to lead us to help all in the next crisis, and it was fair, proportional to their previous earnings. And as for your previous performance. Do you really think 30,000 are high-income? Prime Minister, do you really think so? This is a complete surprise for me. Thirty thousand are supposed to be high-income? The other thing is. The whole spell of 100% sickness - the differences are small in those amounts, you're right, that's why I sent you the table - but the magic of 100% sickness is that it will be the easiest for employers, it won't be administered, you won't ask for a refund in two ways. Because 370 kroner: you will refund part of it from Antivirus, part of it will be deducted from social security. 100% sick leave in those amounts makes almost no difference in median and average wages. The only thing that is magic is clarity and administrative understatement for employers. And that's what I said. We can discuss this, I stand by it. One last thing. The purpose of this proposal is to get as many people as possible regardless of their income - actually to create an economic stimulus for them, as President Válek said, to be willing to isolate themselves. That is indeed the substance of the proposal. And with 100% sick, we go above the higher amounts, over 35,000. There it is very, very highly motivating, I suspect that up to 45 000 crowns, for these people, they will have a completely net wage. So this is another advantage of the proposal that even more people, essentially the vast majority of employees, will have a clear impulse to not be afraid to go into isolation for economic reasons in the event of an infection or even positiveness. These are the fundamental differences: administrative understatement, clarity, economic stimulus and as many people as possible to get measures into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u81	This was the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová and his party colleague, with a factual remark, will be overtaken by the President of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u82	Madam Secretary, seriously. Don't lie here. I didn't say 30,000 was a high-income group. You did some construction. I don't know if you're doing this on purpose, I think you are. Don't lie and apologize to me. I didn't say anything like that. Read the tape screen. So don't put anything in my mouth that I didn't say, and then don't cut it. I'm really allergic to that. If I thought so, I'd say so. I said the first person that's getting interesting is 40,000. And that's a higher income group, that's above average wage. How many people are taking 40,000 of the employees, what percentage, Madam Secretary, if you would just call us on the microphone. I'm not saying they're high-income. First of all. Two. I don't know if the secretary knows: if I have an agreement that taxes are paid. Madam Secretary, the tax is paid, imagine, the withholding tax is paid, one rate, every month. The Minister of Finance will confirm - and now I don't know if she gave any delay, but if she didn't, by the end of February, every employer has to submit a bill of personal income tax on dependent activities, as well as withholding taxes, which means a tax deduction. It's paid every month. And the tax office - once a year it will be accounted for. The state knows exactly how much has been paid into the agreement in that company, because 15 percent of it - there is no escape - is paid a tax on personal income paid by a deduction. So the state already knows. Whenever the IRS can come to check, each employer will submit: an employee A had 8,000, of which 1,200 crowns were paid tax this month. Now it's going to be charged, and now the employers are showing how much should be hit, how much has been paid, whether there's a supplement or an underpayment. And don't give me two clicks. Don't tell me something works for two clicks. Try sending for example your employees to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - go to the accounting office and try sending a monthly summary of the social insurance bill. [[President: Mr President, the time for a point of fact has ended.]] I understand. Madam Secretary, don't send anything, anywhere, ever, for two clicks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u83	I'm tolerance alone. Mr Jan Bauer is now preparing Pavel Juříček, enrolled in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u84	Dear Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I deliberately took no advantage of our President Zbyněk Stanjura's preferential right three hours ago, and I volunteered from the scene and saw that I would wait three hours. But that doesn't bother me because I listened really carefully. And I must say, therefore, that, Madame Labor and Social Affairs, you have an extraordinary gift, or perhaps an extraordinary ability, perhaps an extraordinary incompetence. Because when you listen to it, your bills are basically all over the polling season. Because most of what's coming is either poorly written or not quite well written, it brings up a very long discussion here, and it also brings up a huge criticism, which is nothing special in the law. But notice that you're basically getting this criticism from all sides, not only naturally from the opposition, which is from that, but your bills here usually either criticize or at least do not support your government colleagues, which I think is very weird. How many times have I talked to the Social Committee about you girls sticking together because you're just one coalition that you shouldn't argue and put your sticks under your feet, because we've been here since the critics. But you and your laws are even criticized by your government colleagues. For this reason, I would like to ask you how you want to convince the Chamber of Deputies for the government option, when you - if I have seen it correctly in the media - have not been able to convince even five ministers of this government. They even happen to be sitting here two or three. Because, if I have correctly noticed, the Minister of Finance did not agree with this government proposal. He's a key player in that government or every government. Minister Alena Schillerová even said she was delayed because she long-term worried about the threat to employment and the failure of employees, especially in the field of health. [[19.20 hours]] You didn't convince the government or the Minister of Transport, not even the Minister of Industry and Trade, to vote and to discuss it here by chance in our country, it's the same person. I would even be very interested to know what the key player of these economic ministries thinks about it, whether it's the Minister of Finance or the Minister of Industry and Trade, because that's what they're talking about here to be honest about what they think about 100 percent of it. You haven't even convinced Minister Lubomír Metnar and Minister Richard Brabec, who is here. I know he's into the environment, but maybe he has an opinion about it too. So how do you want to convince us if you haven't convinced your closest colleagues in the government? Before I present our amendment here in one sentence, perhaps competitive, there will be a vote on this, so I would like to say that no one here in the House is questioning your efforts to put forward any concrete proposal to address reporting of contacts or compliance with quarantine. Nobody here is questioning that at all, and I think we all support it here. On the other hand, you will take a specific view of your proposal if you put it in specific numbers. And now I don't want to blow out the information to Pavel Juříček, a colleague who will probably talk about it, but if you put the specific numbers in the calculator and somebody calculates it, it's a very sensitive balance when we want to help someone not to be hit economically, and, on the other hand, not endangering the Czech industry from the point of view of people's willingness to go to work, it's a very sensitive thing. We talked about it today on the Social Policy Committee, and I, if I put the hard numbers in my calculator, I'm getting 100 percent, your proposal, which even some key ministers didn't vote for, it's just not good and it's not well set and I'm probably leaving the floor to my follower. However, I would like to introduce you to the fact that, on behalf of the Civic Democratic Party MEP, we have entered House Document No 7661 into the system, which means, among other things, very briefly, that we are presenting two alternatives at 80 per cent of the average reduced earnings and 90 per cent of the average reduced earnings, and of course, today, I suppose, we will also vote on that. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u85	I thank Mr Jan Bauer. Now, Mr Pavel Juříček, Hana Aulická Jírovcová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u86	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to compare the situation to that Czech song on the Bošilecký Mostka: They played, played, played, and played, and fell off the bridge. We seem to want to fall off the bridge, the whole Czech Republic. Now why do I say that? Last week, we had a law here about the tacky name of an isola. So, under the word "isolate," I always imagined the black tape that we isolated the electricity. So even though I was originally taught, I didn't just become an entrepreneur, but maybe a little intellectual, and I'm incredibly annoyed by that term. But why I didn't vote here for this law was that I am the representative of the business sphere here and I know the vast majority of Czech entrepreneurs in whom this law, I beg you, caused horror. If we take the average earnings of 35,000 crowns, and now I want to simplify it to 35,000 crowns, 60 percent of the 35,000 crowns were 18,899 crowns, plus 370 crowns per day, which is 8,140 crowns. In other words, if we add it up, it's 27,040 kroner. And when this person goes to work and has an average earnings of 35,000 crowns, his net earnings are 28,220 crowns. In other words, less than 1,200 crowns would have been lost on a net profit. Well, of course, we've all calculated immediately -- and even if we're, let's say, enlightened and responsible, who, for example, I've been doing this for five months, but let me not tell you about myself, there's already hundreds of companies like this that did it, and the government hasn't decided anything -- what would be the logical response of an employee when the difference is CZK 1,200. He's just gonna spend it on traffic, so, of course, he's gonna look for a way. Not that he's a fraud, he'll logically think about just not having to come to the job. He'll find his way. And here you are, many of you colleagues have described how he will find his way here. I mean, it was pretty obvious. Even my colleague Jana Pastuchová said so, through the President. Yes, there's pressure on me now that I've knocked down the tacky name of the duct tape and that we have something else here. Yes, Minister Jana, please, let us not use this again, through the President. So it was the first horror of entrepreneurs. The second appallment was that suddenly the Prime Minister was under pressure from social democracy, that the industry as a whole would shut down. Please, we who are responsible, we who track people who are methodically, systemically monitoring them, we who have been buying antigen tests for five months, when it was not yet known that antigen tests existed, we push people out of the company to protect healthy employees. Even Deputy Prime Minister Karel Havlíček asked if I could send the methodology to Richard Brabco. So I described it to him to see how we really approach it, to all the details. We value our employees. We want them to be healthy. We don't want us to cheat in any way that they won't be quarantined. Well, that's outrageous nonsense. We'd be ligating ourselves. But what situation are we in? The average disease after the Karen period increased by 4 percent. It's not true what the secretary said. Those are just facts. Those are hard numbers. And over the course of last year, we have already gotten, as the company, between 11 and 15 percent of the disease, in which of course we have several factors. The factor is covid, to date I have 51 people with covid. Yes, it grew slightly. I have 22 people in quarantine. I have 55 people I had at work last week, but I have them to treat a family member. The rest to 222 people is a common disease, because people are sick of it. So it was the second act that the industry would close down, terrified among businessmen who - on Saturdays, I did nothing but answer the phones on Sundays and communicate with Minister Schillerová and Vice Prime Minister Havlíček and the Prime Minister, because it wasn't just the horror of businessmen and companies, but it was the horror of our customers. In particular, the automotive industry reacted so that I can't even tell how it reacted because it was: What exactly does the Czech Republic do? It wasn't March, April last year, where we all stopped, the whole chain stopped, and the stone in mosaic, the Czech Republic, was part of this higher power. But now to stop this pebble within the automotive industry, it causes such a storm that they said: So we will immediately penalize you, an hour - 250 million crowns for stopping one hour of one car destination. It's 6 billion a day, one destination. Will the government, the Minister of Finance, or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs pay for this? That's going to be no billions, that's going to be trillions, because only my company supplies 220 destinations in the world. And it's the same everywhere. So it was a second fright. [[19.30 hours]] Somehow it's skated, humanly speaking, that it's stuck and that the industry hasn't shut down. Yeah, we've got health care very overloaded, we've got a dramatic situation, we all know that. We have one positive that, step by step, paramedics and nurses are being vaccinated. We haven't yet. We have to keep it that way, every day, we push out people who don't belong in those companies, and those who are still skilled, we keep those jobs, and there they are. And you want to eliminate-- this isn't about the money-- the fact that somebody's gonna somehow give us $2.3 billion back on some insurance policy. This is completely different money, short-term, medium-term and long-term, because once you stop a customer, you're not gonna piss off. I'm sorry about that word again. And this was the second horror. And now we have a third fear of paying 100 percent sick. What does that mean? Of the average earnings of 35,000 crowns, a net wage is 28,220 crowns. Exactly calculated by payroll accounting, average. When 100 percent sick, the net wage will be CZK 30,212, in other words, CZK 2,200 more. Why would these people even go to work? They'll just find their way. If it is 90 percent, as the ODS is proposing here, it will be CZK 28,348, in other words, CZK 128 more, Zbyněk - not Frolík, with whom I also spoke - Zbyněk Stanjur, through the President. It'll be CZK 128 more than when you go to work. So they're not motivations, they're stimulation, and we say to people: Please don't go to work, we forbid you - in quotation marks, we recommend you not to go there at all. If it's 80 percent, 80 percent is 25 198 kroner. In other words, the difference is CZK 3,000, and it's like: I don't have to pay for transport, I don't have to pay for lunches that may or may not be, depending on how we decide. Well, what can I say? The vast majority of entrepreneurs tell me who contacted me over the weekend and today, saying, "Please leave it to us, at the firms, especially when the situation has changed dramatically, that we will test together. I mean, we're gonna have to test together tomorrow. And what does that mean? It means that not only the enlightened and responsible companies will all do that, so they will push out those who are at risk. And, of course, with the covid at all. But they'll do it properly, twice at the entrance, the moment the quarantine ends, again. It hasn't been 10 days with the covid today, and you didn't have to test yourself. But we did it at the firms because we wanted to protect ourselves. So please, let's not do this again on the Bošilka Bridge to play, play until we're finished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u87	I thank Mr Juříček. Now, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, so far the last one entered into the debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u88	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I will try to be brief, although, of course, I do not promise anything, because I have much to say and I think it is really important to go over this form of proposal that we are discussing today. I would like to say that I may also not really know the final form of quarantine that the government has united today. Anyway, as I know it by last week, if one of the family members is positive and the other, mostly the husband, the wife, is entering the so-called quarantine, so yes, the fifth, sixth day is recommended PCR test from hygiene, with the fact that if the partner who had been quarantined by then is positive, then our doctors ended the illness until then, and from the beginning when it was announced that the other partner was positive, they gave again for 10 days. Only if after six, seven days the test was negative, the partner ended with the first partner quarantined after 10 days, now it should be about 14 days. I'm saying this on purpose, because the mess that the government has presented now, in the last five, six days, I have to say it's catastrophic, and I'm on TV yesterday when I was listening to the briefing after the government's meeting, she had something to do to keep the TV from getting hurt. I have to say, we're going to talk about it first of all tomorrow, but the fact that testing companies and allowing companies to test themselves should be, and today we're saving them, there are some numbers, I think from 300 or 250 employees, and then by 15 they have to be smaller companies, so it's done in such terms and in such chaos that employers are looking for information at the last minute, looking at the last minute for ways to get these tests or how to solve it to be tested. I know because I'm talking to these people, and I know that, because there are a lot of questions coming up every day about where to find them, how to deal with them, and how is it possible that the government announces it from day to day. We're mainly interested in employees, yes, because without employees, companies wouldn't be able to do business. But how do we behave to this extent, or what did the government do, or maybe the Department of Health, two months ago? What were the possibilities of self-testing or of making a phone call, of testing them to society? Almost zero.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u89	I understand you, Madame, once again, I will ask my fellow Members to calm down and move the debates outside the agenda into the foyer. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u90	Thank you. You might be interested in the next part. Anyway, the Department of Health has done almost nothing. What is also shown in testing at schools is simply a disgrace as the Ministry of Education performs in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. I must say that I really do not blame our citizens for being disgusted by the whole situation. And now for the proposal. I was here to say that last week we discussed the Senate's return to the original so-called isola - although I must say that I hate that word, and I am very sorry that the Minister was proud to lecture it. I think she really should say it the way it's called, that's a contribution. We really wanted to support the House version for the reason that a good version would be prepared, not only that it would extend to those 14 days, because it was really dealing with -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u91	Let's do it again. Ladies and gentlemen, please move the discussions of those who are not enrolled in the debate to the lobby and let him who has been given the floor be able to convey his opinion on press 1171 in a dignified environment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u92	Thank you. Because the extension that the government has made has really been dealt with in the Senate proposal. What we had a problem with, however, is that the Senate proposal did not adjust the administrative burden on accountants and personalists in those companies that would have to deal with all this. We can openly say that the original draft of the Department of Labour actually threw all the agenda at the accountants and personalists. Don't be mad at me, with the argument that it's only for a few months, I can't agree, because the contagion in these societies is huge. Even those accountants and personalists are quarantined, they solve wage calculations after nights and when they are well enough to ultimately not lose their wages on their payday. What's next and what's bothering us is that the secretary came to the government yesterday... [[Noise in the hall.]] A government proposal that no one really knew about, and we didn't count on at all, I think maybe across the political spectrum. We were talking about the option that it would certainly be much better, or the fixed amount. It was accepted by the government 100 per cent and I have to say: we really do not have a problem with this, we will support the 100 per cent because we are interested in employees. But we also want to say here and ask all the members of the government openly: ČSSD said last week it was necessary to close part of the economy, industry. For us, it's clear that if it didn't go through one hole, it goes through the other hole. 100 percent means economic lockdown, we just have to admit that. And I am here to tell you, and I am asking the whole government, and I would like to hear it from all the ministers, not just from Secretary Schillerová and Minister Maláčová, but from everyone, and above all from the Prime Minister. How do you stand up to that? Are you ready for more marches? Are you ready for, like, April, a state budget amendment? Are you going to address the fact that we're going to increase the deficit by, like, 300 billion? Because we can also talk here about a situation where the employees won't be able to go back to those companies because they won't. And that is simply something that needs to be said openly and discussed. We want to make sure that when an employee has entered quarantine, he doesn't really lose. It's long, the restrictions, the restrictions are pointless in many forms, and we can't agree with that in the long run. Plus, they're chaotic, and they've been showing up in the last few weeks. People stop believing everything, but the government doesn't do anything to put these people on the positive side - not to be positive, but to get a little bit of understanding of the measures, and more or less they're just opening scissors between our citizens, because one side is very aggressive, very angry, and the other defends the restrictions that they are. We're not surprised because people are scared. But aren't we holding them in fear on purpose? We know the situation in hospitals, how they literally fall on the mouth of doctors, nurses, how horrible it really is, because they have a lot of phones every day and they report deaths, even on non-covided units, because it's very often shown that when they bring a patient there, they do a test, so this patient is with covid. On the other hand, we accept 100 percent of the sick, but in a net wage means that those people at all levels, in all wage levels, will take over 100 percent of the net wage. That's just the truth. This means that we say at the same time: Yes, it pays you to be 100% sick, as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has submitted, because at least four, 5%, depends, of course, on the amount of gross wages, you will have more than when you work. And I think that is one thing that we really should tell our citizens. We know that people work hard, they don't know which way, they often don't have the rent, they often don't have the usual things to do, and they need to loosen up a little bit and make a little extra money. We also don't understand why the government doesn't go with the common sense sometimes and tightens the screws. But on the other hand, we are going to prepare a proposal here that we will support, but we are also saying that it can also endanger the human resources policy in the most affected areas, and that is the health and social area. Because whether you like it or not, the medical staff is very overloaded. I really looked into the situation yesterday in the Ústí Region, and today I would like to ask Minister Maláčová, when kindergarten schools are closed, first, second grade, what proposal will she prepare for the nearest government discussion? Because that's the stepping stone, what it's going to look like in health care. Immediately, if it increases to more than 80 percent, a third of nurses and doctors leave for the Czech Republic. I wish them that, they need it, but we have to say openly here too: do we have the people who will take their place? What are we gonna do? I'm not defending it so we don't give it to them, they deserve it, they're supposed to have extras. We can talk to the Minister of Health about why they are suddenly dealing with the fact that hospitals are not receiving adequate rewards, as promised to them. Indeed, employees are largely dealing with the fact that money received by last month is now promised to them on a quarterly basis and may indeed be deprived of some of the amounts to which they are entitled. And I think that Madam Secretary plus the entire government really should tell us openly today how they imagine it and what we're going to do next. We support these employees, on the other hand, we want to hear what the government is up to, by the end of April, because the situation and whether or not the infirmary will be increased... The secretary even spoke of 100 percent of the infirmary. Do you know what that means when it's converted? That it's going to be about 10 to 15 percent higher in the infirmary than when the guy goes to work for a month. So these are the parameters that need to be said and which we have here at the Chamber of Deputies to discuss. Nobody wants to deny them funding, we all want people to really go into quarantine or isolation. I see. They have legitimate concerns. But we really need to hear from the government what they want to do with it. For us, this is a matter that we want to hear from the ministers and ministers today, and preferably from the Prime Minister himself. We don't like the last few days, the decisions and the taking back, I called off what I promised, I promise, what I called off, etc. And let us really finally realize how this affects our citizens. They don't believe anything anymore. We put a lockdown here, or the government, and what caused it? Unmurderability. People are really sick of it. I believe that only these restrictions cannot save this situation. Maybe they got it somewhere. I think we need to figure it out. And if we're being threatened by citizens here that three weeks isn't gonna be enough, that's exactly what we're doing to make this company even more angry. After the first day of lockdown, a member of the government says it's gonna be low and he's gonna need... Look at these kids. That's just unbearable. Every expert, whether in education or in a psychologist and so on, will tell you that we treat these kids like shit. That we just don't realize the implications of all this, social and other. [[19.50 hours]] We need to realize a lot of things, but we can't go on like this. So I myself wonder how the Minister - or part of the government that is here - will answer our questions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u93	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová, and this was the last application for the general debate. I don't see anyone else. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the final words after the general debate. Madam rapporteur and Madam Secretary, so Madam Secretary first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u94	I would like to say very briefly that the aim of this proposal is to get the pandemic under control. That's the main objective. I understand businessmen's concerns, I understand employers' concerns, but unfortunately this is only a partial interest from this point of view. The overall interest is to get the pandemic under control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u95	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u96	I won't talk long because I begged and asked the president of our club to take a break for sure. I repeat, I want us to vote on a version today, but there is one more thing that has been forgotten. No one is saying about abuse - but the Minister has admitted that it can be - but I would like to point out that every citizen's duty is to report infectious contact, and whoever doesn't do it is committing, I think, I'm not sure, but some offence or crime. So infectious disease, if someone doesn't report it, you have to say that they're doing a misdemeanor or a felony. So even then, everyone should realize that infectious colleagues, co-employers, family is required to report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u97	Yes, thank you for the final word and the warning on the criminal code. Threatening a contagious disease is indeed included in the criminal law of the Czech Republic, but I am initiating a detailed debate in which I do not yet have any - but I see Mr Dominik Feri's application and I have recorded in the performance, I think, Zbyněk Stanjura and vizzo into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u98	Thank you for him, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I report to House documents 7668, 7669, 7670, 7671. These are four variants, parametric variations that distinguish between isolation and quarantine, creating a clear difference in order to achieve a fair and fair functional setting of sickness, with which there will be no doubts that would threaten either the state budget or the Czech industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u99	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? [[Mr Faltynek is coming to the President.]] Wait a minute... ano, now Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u100	Thank you for the floor. I would like to comment on one of the two amendments that I have presented here. After consulting our colleagues, we have identified one risk that has evidently come from the debate that has now taken place here, namely that the government - or the ministry - is leaning towards the various lengths of quarantine in the current situation, it may change, so it is quite tricky to put some specific time into the law if we do not know how it will end up. That is why we have modified the amendment - it is the one increasing the quarantine to CZK 370 per day - that it would not have been established that it was 14 days, but it would have been without time, which means that it would have been for the duration of the ordered quarantine. That is why I am applying to two amendments that are uploaded into the system, namely 7654 and 7678. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u101	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I see Mr. Jan Bauer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u102	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to apply briefly to this House document number 7661, the content of which I have already discussed and explained in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u103	Thank you. Who's next for a detailed debate? I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask about the final words after a detailed debate. Madam Secretary is not interested, the rapporteur is not interested, but I will ask her how much time do we need for... an hour? [[The rapporteur speaks from the space at the speaker's counter off the microphone: an hour.]] An hour for processing. So we will not proceed immediately with the third reading, which allows us to continue the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies when we have approved the procedure under Section 99 (5) and subsequent, and therefore I interrupt this hearing at least within 20.56 hours, stating that we cannot continue to take point 1 which was interrupted at 17.00 because the appellant is not present, and therefore item 2, the Government's draft crisis law, I postpone and agree on his inclusion after tomorrow. And we can start because it was approved through the morning disagreement with the continuation after 19 o'clock of the majority of the members of the MPs, but it was approved to be held after 19 o'clock, so I can open item number 4, construction law. But I see the application from the KDU-ČSL club chairman. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Given that the various clubs have announced that they will consult before the final vote, I think that time can be used now, because the amendments are loaded into the system, we know what we will vote on, the MPs can agree on a strategy, and not that the amendments will be loaded, we will meet here at nine, and then we will take further breaks. For this reason, in order to facilitate these meetings for you colleagues, I am taking an hour's break for KDU-ČSL by 21.00 hours, you can consult in the meantime, we will meet here after the announced hour and we will vote on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u105	So you're taking a break until 9:00 p.m., okay. I have no choice but to respect, I am declaring a break until 21.00, and I will therefore request a consultation with the presidents of the MPs now before the break begins. I've got two minutes, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u106	I would like to ask the club KSČM after the start of the break immediately to the club space for a short meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u107	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u108	I would like a member of the ANO movement to speak to President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u109	I'm calling the KDU-ČSL club into our room, so-called cinema.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue our negotiations. Before we get to the third reading of the House press 1171, I'll introduce you to an apology. Foreign Minister Tomáš Petříček apologizes for today's meeting from 20 o'clock to the end of the day for work reasons. According to Article 99 (1) of the EC Treaty, the Commission has to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 7, the Rules of Procedure Act, we will dedicate the third reading of the bill that I am initiating. The rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, will monitor the debate with me from the rapporteur's table. I open the debate at third reading. Is anyone reporting for the debate, please? Minister Jana Maláčová is reporting for the debate. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I opened the debate at third reading. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u111	Thank you. I'd like that right now. I will try very briefly - but at the same time it is very technical - to explain the preferences that I have at the moment as the appellant. Because, after consulting the various club members, I perceive that there is no support for 100% of the proposal, the second preference of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs would be the original proposal of CZK 370. I can explain why. But since the loaded amendments are not in the exact government version that we presented a few weeks ago, the next logical preference is 90 percent. I will just say very, very, very technically: the 370 crowns - Mrs Pekarová's proposal to Adamová, who is copying the government version - are not technically feasible except for a few small things, because it fell out of it for 14 days. And because when the employer pays the allowance for the first 14 days as compensation for the salary and from the 15th day the state pays CZK 370 in the event that quarantine lasts, the employer would give even from that 15th day, even though from the 15th day the sick state actually pays. Thus, the employer would pay CZK 370 to the sickness, for which he does not know the amount. That's why it's technically impossible. So if I were to say preference: the first preference is a government proposal, the second preference is CZK 370, but due to minor technical changes it is not feasible from our point of view. Therefore, after consulting my colleagues, the third preference I have as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs is 90 percent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u112	Thank you. Mrs Richterová's point of fact, or is that a mistake? Yes, so I'll erase you. Anyone else reporting for the debate? President Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting for the debate and Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Please, you have the floor. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u113	I believe, unlike the Minister, that the proposal is completely in order, that there is no problem. All the government has to do is not play with the length of quarantine. That's all. So I can't imagine the government moving it in any way. I think the proposal is perfectly fine that we can vote on it. It's copying the version. I don't think that's really a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u114	Several priority rights. First I saw President Pekarová Adamová, then I saw the rapporteur, Jana Pastuchová, and then the Minister. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u115	We have just consulted both the rapporteur and the rapporteur that, in fact, the cleanest solution to make sure that no one really feels like voting for something that is impossible is to return to second reading, although I understand that I am - I am hearing the reaction - that no one wants to do it. But if we return the second reading, I will present it as it was originally, but we discussed it here on the march. This means that 14 days are explicitly mentioned in the same paragraph - I don't know it now - and then in the third reading we voted for this because it is probably the greatest consensus, the greatest will here, so it will probably be the easiest and purest, even though it is a little bit more time-consuming. I get it, but I don't think so much. So I'm asking you to be kind to this proposal that we should return to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u116	Yes, thank you. The rapporteur - or the Minister will take precedence. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u117	It is, of course, on the will of your legislators. However, if we are really to prevent the Senate from actually returning the proposal - and this may happen after I have said here - I suggest that we go back to second reading, fully read the government proposal, and then we could possibly decide on the voting version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u118	I didn't get it right now, Madam Secretary. Are you suggesting we go back to second reading? [[- Yes, Minister Maláčová.]] Yes, thank you. The rapporteur, or - so President Stanjura took precedence. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u119	If it wasn't for 21.06 hours, I'd be laughing out loud. Technically, I suggest we return this press to second reading. Please make it read in three minutes, no break, let's vote. I think the Minister is right, and there's no point in arguing with legislation, I don't know which, I mean, MPSV, those who can't write a bill, but formally I suggest that we return this press to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u120	I will give the floor to Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. We're still in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to express myself on behalf of KSČM, colleagues, that we will not support the modified, original, government proposal for the 370 crowns. We've justified this here several times, and we're saying that if you support the version of the original government proposal, you're just gonna throw all the administrative effort at those companies, and that's reality. Not to mention that even the low-incomes according to the calculations aren't really 370, but 220, 240 crowns. For us, as we really wanted to help especially with the low-income ones, this option is therefore unacceptable, but especially because you are throwing the really demanding administration that the Ministry of Labour has written at companies. And then tell us here that you want to help companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u122	Thank you. The rapporteur, Mrs Pastuchová. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u123	Mr President, if I could allow, I would be in favour of returning to second reading, but with no break, because the original amendment, where the 14 days were, is in the system. So it is only that the amendments will be reloaded, with Mrs Pekarová Adamová reading the original one where it is 14 days, and we can vote because the procedure will remain exactly the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u124	Yes, thank you. President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, you have the floor. Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u125	I'm just being purely processive. I think that President Stanjura's proposal is voteable, said the debate at third reading. After the end of the debate at the third reading, we would vote on the return to second reading. The second reading may be followed immediately. Of course, both debates, otherwise we can't, but we can only open them up, shut them down. In detail, it reads to the microphone exactly as it should be. We will go back to the third reading immediately - the emergency situation makes it possible - and we will vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u126	Yes. Anyone else reporting for the debate? If no one applies to the debate, I am done with the debate. There is no interest in final words at the moment. So, first of all, we will vote on the proposal that has been made here, and that is the proposal that we return this point to second reading. [[21.10 hours]] Everyone knows what we're going to vote on. [[There's a gong.]] Just in case, I will call Members and Members, and I think we are all ready for the vote here. So I'm opening the vote -- back to second reading. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 41, registered by 101 Member, for 82, against no one. The proposal was accepted and we returned to second reading. We have returned to the second reading, which means that we must vote again on whether we will have a general debate. I have therefore started second reading, and we will now decide, by voting, whether we will hold a general debate at second reading. [[Noise in the courtroom.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 42, registered by 101 Member, for 68, against 11. The motion was accepted. I am opening a general debate. No one shall enter into the general debate. I am ending the general debate. There's no interest in final words. I am opening up a detailed debate. President Markéta Pekarová Adamová is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u127	In the end, it is appropriate that an amendment, which is under number 7655, is still recorded in the system, and I hereby apply to it. And I am no longer applying to the 90 percent amendment, and I trust that the declared agreement to pass this proposal will apply. So thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u128	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? He's not reporting. I am ending the debate in detail. There is no interest in final words, so I finish second reading of this proposal. According to Article 99 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 7 of the Rules of Procedure I am initiating a third reading and opening a debate. No one is applying to the debate. I'm done with the conversation. There is no interest in final words either. So I ask the rapporteur, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we all thought it would be difficult, in the end it would be very simple. We have one amendment tabled by Mrs Pekarová Adamová, so the voting procedure would be as follows. First of all, proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading if they are presented in the debate at third reading. They weren't. Second, Mrs Pekarová's amendment to Adamová under number 7655, which you know is CZK 370 for 14 days, the original proposal, which we voted as a government, returned to the Senate, returned to the Senate for 14 days. [[Disadvised reactions.]] Yes, there's an adjustment without a traveler's quarantine, yes. So, and then the vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u130	Yes, thank you. While the procedure is simple, we still have a habit of voting on it. So I'm taking the vote. Who's for the procedure, the way it was designed? Who's against it? Voting order number 43, 102 Members registered, 102, against no one, we have adopted the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u131	We would now vote on Mrs Pekarová's amendment to Adamová because legislative technical amendments have not been read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u132	Opinion, Madam Secretary. [[- Agreed. Laughs in the courtroom. Restlessness and noise persist.]] Thank you. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 44, registered by 101 Members, for 91, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u133	And since we have exhausted all the amendments, we should vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u134	Yes. The motion for a resolution reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for a law on increasing the compensation of income under the order of quarantine, according to Parliament's press 1171, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 45, registered by 101 Members, for 98, against no one. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur. Madam Secretary with priority rights wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u135	Thank you for adopting this compromise proposal, and I would like to ask you to say correctly that this is an original government proposal without... [[An explosion of laughter and noise in the courtroom.]] No, I'm sorry, no, really, without a traveler's quarantine on the tape. Without the right to travel quarantine on the tape. That's what needs to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u136	Thank you. President Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u137	Madam Secretary Maláčová really won't stop. It's not an duct tape, it's not an duct tape! Stop it! My words were confirmed exactly when I was performing. If it wasn't for your political arrogance, we'd already approved it on Friday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u138	Thank you. President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u139	In view of the many circumstances, I propose that we interrupt the Chamber of Deputies' meeting today and continue tomorrow at 9.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-02-ps2017-087-01-003-002.u140	I would like to adopt this proposal and ask whether any of the other Members' clubs object to this procedure? He doesn't object. Thank you. I'm interrupting and ending today's meeting and we'll continue tomorrow at 9 o'clock. Have a good night.
