ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the COVID-19 disease epidemic /German press 49/ - shortened negotiations The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to approve a bill which most of you know very well. Let me briefly sum up the parameters of the so-called emergency nurse. This is an increase in the parameter for the reimbursement of income to 80 per cent of the so-called daily assessment base, but at least 400 crowns per day. [[There's noise and poor audibility in the hall.]] This applies to employees and insured contractors, both DPP and DPČ. Parents under 10 years of age will be entitled to child care, as well as dependent elderly children who attend school, dependent on the care of another person from the first degree of addiction, dependent on the elderly with special educational needs and serious learning disabilities, as well as those over 10 years of age dependent on the care of another person using staff and similar facilities if they are closed. [[14.50 hours]] The entitlement to the infirmary will be possible for the entire period of school or class closure or individual quarantine of the child or the person concerned in those categories that I have just described. The claim to him shall cease by termination of his employment. As in the spring months, parents will be able to take unlimited turns in caring for their children, from January 2022, that is, a month from now, other relatives will be able to take care of the child, except for parents who do not have to live with the child in one household - parents are automatically involved in the bill. Parents will not have to have a certificate from school or from hygiene, but just an honest statement from their parents - a thing we also know, and it simplifies the entire administration considerably in the emergency care centre. The entitlement to a crisis care centre will apply retroactively if this bill is approved. We expect the law to be effective on the day of its publication in the Collection. The Czech Social Security Administration will automatically pay the difference between 60 current percentages and the proposed 80 percent and the difference up to a minimum of 400 crowns per day. The Czech administration is obliged to pay this difference within 90 days. Infirmary for next days beyond the current 9 days, or 16 for singles, will be paid at the request of the parent. Again, there is no need to confirm school or hygiene, just an honest statement. As far as the impact on the state budget is concerned, the impact on the budget will only be in November, because we always pay with a month's delay. That means that in December it will be reflected in the budget of 2022. We estimate additional expenditures of approximately CZK 600 million, which means that we do not expect an additional deficit now, and according to how this estimate will be implemented, it will be secured by budgetary measures of the Ministry of Finance. [[Big noise in the hall.]] As for...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u3	Madam Secretary, I apologize very much. I would ask all my colleagues to keep their voice down, so that the Minister can make his proposal in peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. As regards the estimate of the increase in doses according to current developments, just for your information - 63 846 emergency infirmaries or infirmaries were processed or applied for in October of this year, for November - and there I say openly that this is the number of 28 November, that is, not for the whole month - that was 73 322 doses. Madam, honourable Members, so much in brief everything. Once again, I ask you to approve this bill, which, in our opinion, is more than necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The Social Policy Committee, to which the Government's bill was ordered by decision of the President, discussed it and adopted a resolution delivered to you as House Press 49/1. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of this proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. Thank you, Madame. [[Mrs Pastuch is already ready at the fairground.]] Once again, I call on all my colleagues and colleagues... Gentlemen, I don't want to name it specifically, please, if you have anything to discuss, you'll settle it in the lobby. And thank you for keeping your voice down. The Member has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Social Policy Committee of the 2nd meeting of 1 December 2021. The Social Policy Committee sat down this morning. Two amendments were made to this House's press in committee. One from Mrs Lucie Šafránková, the other from the common five-wheeler. One amendment, namely the five-calice, was adopted. So let me read to you the resolution we adopted on the Social Policy Committee on the Government Bill on further adjustments to the provision of the infirmary in connection with emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic, House press 49: "After the opening words of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Dana Roučková, report by Jana Pastuchová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies to hold a general debate on the bill; II. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic that a detailed debate be held on all parts of the bill; III. proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to terminate its negotiations on this bill by 19 hours on 1 December 2021 at the latest; IV. Recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's proposal for a law on further adjustments to the provision of medical care in connection with emergency measures in the covid-19 epidemic, the House's press 49, as amended by these amendments - this amendment is supplemented by point IV; V. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Committee of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, of the relevant legislative technical adaptations."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u7	Thank you, Madame, and we will now decide whether we will have a general debate. Once again, I will call my colleagues from the lobby and prepare for the vote on whether we will hold a general debate. As we have already noted, the committee has proposed a general debate. I am opening the vote and we are deciding whether to hold a general debate. Whoever agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 6, 182 Members and Members signed up, for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we can open a general debate. I ask, who is reporting for the general debate? I see that Mrs Lucie Šafránková is registered. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Let me briefly introduce you to the opinion and amendment of the SPD, which I propose to the Government's draft law on crisis care. The SPD movement has supported this higher infirmary since the first school closure and kindergartens in March last year, including that the infirmary should be paid in these cases throughout the school closure period. In our opinion, there is a significant lack of a government proposal against its predecessor, a similar law on an extraordinary infirmary, which was valid until 30 June of this year, the fact that it lacks the possibility that children, during the period of the crisis measures prohibiting personal presence in school facilities, could also be cared for by other relatives other than their parents, even if they do not live with them in one common household, provided that they are properly insured employees. The present proposal does not now allow this, or, in the light of its application to the sickness insurance law, only in the period after 1 January 2022, when the relevant amendment to this Act will apply. This is not possible between 1 November and 31 December 2021. [[15.00 hours]] Almost two years of experience with the practical effects of school closure and kindergartens has clearly demonstrated the need to extend the circle of people who can take care of children during the period of crisis measures and their relatives, even if they do not live with them in one common household. And I would remind you that this provision was brought into the previous law thanks to the SPD and thanks to our proposal, because we have been proposing and promoting the possibility of caring for children in the context of the crisis care centre and other relatives since last March. A large part of the families, especially with regard to single parents, are in a very difficult economic situation without this possibility, where the amount of the infirmary is not enough to cover the basic needs of life. One of the main reasons is the failure to take turns caring for children with other family members. The absence of this variant of treatment also leads to the lack of many necessary employees in the health department and elsewhere. Therefore, I propose extending the scope of the persons who will be entitled to the infirmary under this Act to those sickly insured employees who are in relation to the child they are caring for in relation to the direct or secondary line under Section 772 of the new Civil Code. It would therefore be, for example, grandparents, siblings, uncles, or aunts of a child, which is different from the five-party amendment to the future government coalition, which extends the possibility of caring for children who had closed schools and kindergartens, only to their grandparents, and otherwise solves the care of adults who were ill within the standard infirmary. The SPD proposal is therefore significantly more favourable and helpful for preschoolers and schoolchildren. The Czech Social Security Administration would have demonstrated compliance with the conditions of the relative relationship with the child with an honest statement, as was the case this June. This would enable many families to choose who takes care of their children, even with regard to the amount of child-related income and other criteria that are important for decision-making of this type. I beg you to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Madame, and I ask if anyone else has an interest in speaking in the general debate? If this is not the case, do I end the general debate and ask whether the Minister is interested in the final word? He's not interested. Is he interested in the final word? He's not interested, thank you. I also ask the rapporteur if she is interested in the final word? He's not interested either, yes, thank you. In the absence of any proposals that we could vote on, we will proceed to the debate in detail. I am opening up a detailed debate in which Mrs Lucie Šafránková is signed up. I merely recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Madam President, and this is my amendment, which I have already explained in detail in the general debate and is under House document 111.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-12-01-ps2021-003-01-001-001.u11	Thank you. No one is signed up for a detailed debate. I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur are interested in final words? This is not the case and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Since an amendment has been tabled, it would be appropriate to decide how the House will proceed. Given that the amendment could be submitted to you on benches and legislation, we would interrupt the discussion of this point on the basis of the agreement of the Members' Clubs, continue to discuss further points and then return to this point only after the discussion of the other points. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and we will move on. Before we start discussing the second point, and that's Government bill on extraordinary contribution by employees in the ordered quarantine, House press 50 - shortened negotiations, we would in accordance with § 99 para. 5 were to assess whether the conditions for the discussion of the above draft law were limited. I'm opening the debate. If no one applies to the debate, I will conclude the debate and we will proceed to the vote. I will rejoin and wait for the MPs to arrive from the lobby. In the meantime, I will just make sure that Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Mr Rataj and Mr Feranec, I have them here with factual remarks - yes, we are erasing, thank you. If we are already in a large number, I will make a motion for a resolution on which we will vote: 'The Chamber of Deputies notes that there are still conditions for the discussion of the Government's Bill on the extraordinary contribution of staff in quarantine, the House's press 50, in a short hearing'. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with this proposal? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 7, 181 Members and Members signed, for 169, against no one, the motion for a resolution has been adopted. And now I'm opening this point number
