ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u1	485. Government information on vaccination strategy, available vaccines and their adequacy I will ask the Minister of Health to take the floor for the government, to whom I give the floor. Please, Minister. And I'll ask for peace in the courtroom! If you have anything to discuss that can't be postponed, I'll beg you in the lobby. I thank you and I think that this is very serious and important information that the Minister will be communicating to us at the moment. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to familiarise you here with the current situation of the course of vaccination and its development in the next few days. To begin with, several figures. By yesterday 877 860 doses were delivered to the Czech Republic and during yesterday some additional benefits came from Pfizer, a total of over 9,000 doses. Most of this is from Pfizer, it is about 800,000 even with yesterday's delivery, about 89,000 from Moderna and 112,000 from AstraZeneca. On yesterday's day, 702 023 doses were inoculated and more is probably better given as a percentage. So if I don't count on yesterday's suspension from Pfizer, which couldn't have been vaccinated yet, then it's 81 percent of the doses that were administered, from those that were imported into the Czech Republic. In case I add the doses that came in yesterday, then it's 66 percent. The number of vaccines is increasing. 25,084 doses were inoculated yesterday, which is the highest number so far. But it is true that it is now desirable that we receive 35,000 daily doses in a matter of days. For 455 000 citizens, one dose, 246 000 received two doses, which means that 44 percent of all people are vaccinated in the population over the age of 80, 52 registered. I'm just putting these two numbers into correlation here because we know that unfortunately not all people want to get vaccinated. So out of 52 percent registered, 44 percent are already vaccinated. 53 percent of all bed care and rescue workers received the vaccine. Again, even here, it cannot be assumed that 100 percent of people would want to be vaccinated because vaccination is voluntary. I am glad to say here what I have already said to one of the TV shows today and what I said in several meetings, that there has been a clear instruction from the ministry to all vaccinated not to keep any vaccines for the second dose. Soon I will mention that there will be a large number of benefits in the Czech Republic during March and April and there will be no valid risk that it will not reach the second dose for citizens. This means, even at the cost of any delay in the second dose, which is not relevant, which is also supported by the opinion of the vaccine society, all the doses that the regions now have in storage are needed, and again I call the regions, not the Ministry, to use all these vaccines to administer the first dose in the citizens so that we maximize the use of all the vaccines we have in the Czech Republic as soon as possible. [[17.40 hours]] When I was talking about how many doses are provided and how they will walk, let me have a few more numbers. In total, over 25 million doses for 14 million people are provided for the Czech Republic. By June, there will be 10 million doses in the Czech Republic, or 10.3, if you want exactly, for 5.3 million people, by the end of August 16 million doses for 8.5 million people. This also results, please, from my repeated statements that by the end of August we are able to inoculate at least 60, rather more, 70 percent of the population. Vaccines are contracted for this in the Czech Republic. In March, 1,133 694 doses will come to the Czech Republic, which is 200,000 or more than 200,000 more than it has so far. This means that more doses will come to the Czech Republic during March than they have since the beginning of the vaccination. If I continue, we expect more than 2 million doses to be delivered in April, so April will come in evenly before it comes from the beginning of the vaccination until the end of March. For this reason, too, I am clearly saying that there is no reason at present to seek vaccines that may not be registered because we have few vaccines. The vaccines that will now start going to the Czech Republic will walk in the doses I am talking about. I will once again say the total orders that I actually summarized in this: by the end of June for 5.3 million people, by the end of August for 8.5 million people. As regards further approval, Johnson & Johnson - EMA approval during March. However, it should be noted that this company has commitments to the United States and will start delivering to the European Union at the turn of March and April. CureVac is now undergoing approval of the EMA - the expectation of delivery is from 1 June. Novavax passes through the approval of EMA - expected deliveries in summer. As far as Russian vaccine Sputnik V is often discussed, he could ask the EMA manufacturer to approve this week, which I would consider to be the best solution myself, and in the course of this approval, then I will be the first to support this vaccine as well as all others. Please note that if we make a decision or if, like some countries, we decide to allow this dose without EMA, this vaccine will not be covered by insurance companies according to the applicable legal standards, the vaccination exercise will not be covered by insurance companies and vaccinations will not receive a certificate which entitles them to be recognised within the European Union. I still believe that this vaccine will also be approved by the European Union and that we will avoid all misunderstandings. New groups that can now be vaccinated, 70 years plus: registration started on Monday 1. 3. - a quarter of a million people have been registered since this morning. The hundreds of thousands are running very fast. Some 30,000 people have a specific term for vaccination. With regard to pedagogical and non-teaching staff, schools, kindergartens, nursery - registration started on Saturday 27 February, 150,000 people registered from this point on. The deadline is 36,000 of these people. The vaccination will take place in vaccination sites, unlike those of the elderly who can be vaccinated both in vaccination sites and in their practices. I'll get back to that. The vaccination of teachers takes place on the basis of a code, a specific unique code, which was sent by the Ministry of Education, the management of all these facilities and prioritization is in the gesture of individual directors. The Ministry recommended that people or educators and non-teachers over the age of 55, and especially the facilities that will be opened first in the future, and then the others. Important milestone - vaccination by general practitioners: from 1. 3. vaccination was initiated by practitioners within the so-called central registration system. Practical doctors - and everyone knows that, and if they don't know that, they can either turn to their own company or the Ministry of Health - are to inoculate primarily those who didn't want or couldn't inoculate themselves in vaccination sites, which means seniors over 80 or over 70 years of age, and in their offices indicate, or specify, chronically ill patients according to specified priority diagnoses, who may still be under 70 years of age, but their risk is so high that it is comparable to the risk of a person over 70 years of age. The patients will register through the ISIN, it has been simplified so that they can actually do everything they have to do through the ISIN, which they can work well with. The vaccines will be delivered to them in cooperation with the Regional Coordinator. Yes, it is true that vaccines that go to the regions - which are still limited in numbers, even in the values I have said - will be distributed between vaccines and practitioners. I draw attention to the fact that so far practical doctors have a clearly defined role in this system and will not be changed. At present, for example, and I would also like to ask all my fellow citizens, it is not desirable for fellow citizens to ask their practitioners to cancel vaccinations, which, for example, the senior has in his vaccination area, and they wanted him to be vaccinated in his ambulance. This would lead to the fact that the vaccine is likely to reach the elderly at a later stage and would endanger the functioning of the system. So the practical doctors are currently especially identifying these people, and I will repeat myself, who for some reason do not have a reserved term because they couldn't or didn't want to go to the vaccination site, so that they can be vaccinated through the practitioners. Cooperation, and this is important, and I have also verified this today, with Dr. Šonka, with practical doctors, is in no way linked to the participation of these practitioners in the Association of Practice Doctors. This means that doctors who may not be members of this association or society also have the same right and the same opportunities to vaccinate as any other doctor. Other priority groups for the future: we work with the MIT and the Ministry of the Interior on critical infrastructure employees and their supply chains, which we assume will be ready during March. We are also considering age group 65 taking into account comorbidities, which is planned for the beginning of April. It assumes that all deliveries will be kept as I have mentioned them. Furthermore, the role of practitioners: it will still take time to actually vaccinate those who, for some reason, are not vaccinated in vaccination sites. After April, when millions of vaccines will be given to the Czech Republic, it will be possible for practical doctors to inoculate outside the vaccination centres, independently of the central registration system, and for vaccines to be distributed directly to them. Distribution between regions and distribution of vaccines: I mean clearly, nothing lies on any government or ministerial warehouses. That's disinformation. Everything is divided into regions according to key 65+, i.e. the population key is currently used to distribute vaccines into regions. 31 distribution sites are available for Pfizer, from which it is issued and provided at each vaccination site. The selection of the distributor is planned so that vaccines can be transported in a forward-looking manner to other places before they are delivered by Pfizer himself. This is a distribution that will follow the cold chain, and the distribution points will spread from 30 to 150. [[17.50 hours]] Moderna - distributor Avenier competition 21. 1. - 200 health service providers, now reported to that system of 103 candidates. AstraZeneca distributor Alliance Healthcare competed 19. 2. - 7 004 health service providers to whom the vaccine will be considered. This is what the practice of practical doctors is supposed to be about. One of the questions that took place during yesterday also concerned the safety of the vaccine. So I want to tell you that by 23. 2. 996 reports of suspected adverse reactions were received. When you count it to 587 526 doses given on that day, the percentage of suspected adverse reactions is 0.2 percent. Each of us sometimes takes acylpyrin. Paradoxically, if you take acylpirin, stick it to your stomach lining, develop a gastric ulcer, and theoretically bleed out. Medications with as low a percentage as previously reported with vaccines, i.e. 0.2 percent suspected of adverse reactions, are very safe medicines. A number of medicines that we take every day without realizing it have a much higher risk of side effects. I say it here with the knowledge of the weight of that word and with my nearly 30 years of doctor's practice. Most of these symptoms, which were: 507, were general symptoms such as fever, chills, fatigue, or injection site reactions. 279 - neurological symptoms: headache, migraine or fainting sensations. 225 cases - muscle, bone and joint pain, 150 cases of nausea or diarrhoea and 150 cases of rash or redness. Basically, total trivial events, which were 0.2 %. 8 people have died since the start of vaccination. The number includes, for example, cases of deaths from SARS-CoV-2 virus, which causes COVID-19 disease, which occurred after the first or second dose of vaccine. In other words, if you have been treated for coronavirus, but during this treatment a dose was needed and a person subsequently died from the disease - which is not related to the vaccine, but in relation to the coronavirus - it is calculated in this statistics. So, as with the other reports, even in these cases, this is just a relationship to vaccination, where the temporal link does not necessarily mean causality. This means that it is clearly stated here: the 8 - as it is in clinical trials: when someone dies during a clinical trial or in the course of vaccination, it is necessary to report it, and this does not mean that the person died in connection with vaccination. So let's make this perfectly clear. The reports are not divided according to the type of vaccine, because these are rules that are not set up in this way, and all these reports, in which deaths are reported, are, of course, thoroughly evaluated both within the Czech Republic, subsequently at a European level, by the so-called pharmacovigilance system for the evaluation of the risks of medicinal products, the so-called PRAC, the European Medicines Agency, where the Czech Republic has representatives. So once again, I'm stressing 0.2 percent of the side effects. Of course, some people died during the course of vaccination, but there was no evidence of a causal link to the vaccine, only it is reported to the appropriate authorities, which will continue to investigate whether or not there is a causal link, as with all other medicines. Please give these very sensitive data always in context, do not pull them out of this context and make them not jump to conclusions. When I quote that acylpyrin here, imagine that if you take acylpyrin and for some other reason you die, someone might also put it in connection with acylpyrin, and it doesn't have to be true at all. So perhaps I've explained, perhaps I've answered your questions. And as long as time permits, I hope I'll answer the next one. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u3	Thank you, too. I'm just pointing out that we have a fixed point at 6:00, so I'm going to interrupt this meeting. I now ask that the appellant take the floor, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who, if he agrees, will also become his rapporteur. Do you agree to become rapporteur on this point? [[- I agree.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for voting in favour of this item and its inclusion at today's meeting. I thank the Minister for his opening words. In essence, he answered the questions that I said to the microphone yesterday during the debate or, respectively, to justify this point. Since we are about to interrupt the meeting and continue on this point when time allows us to do so, I inform you that my colleague Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who is also a member of the Health Committee, will present the club's position and information to the club, because this is a health issue and we have agreed in this way. So I will take my role as rapporteur and watch the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u5	Thank you. I have priority rights here. The first will be presented by Mrs Aulická with the opinion of the KSČM club, followed by President Jurečka and Mrs Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor, and once again I warn you that I will rudely interrupt you at 18 o'clock and continue with the next item. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have prepared a performance for a long time, but since the Minister has actually been able to answer a lot of the questions that I would have asked here, I think I will try to shorten it. But I suppose our negotiations will continue on this point in the next few days. I would like to say that the KSČM has asked for this item to be discussed openly here, and above all, we have answers to our questions. And I don't mean just KSČM, but I think they're gonna be asking around the political spectrum. We therefore ask because, to a large extent, we - or not only us, but above all the public - do not receive them. Unfortunately, as we monitor the current numbers daily, but also the situation in individual regions, we all know that it is bad, and we probably all expect that these figures too, and above all the impact on our health care will be even more pronounced. We do not now want to talk about the current introduction of measures, because the evaluation itself can be done first after about three weeks, when it was announced, but we are particularly interested in another part of our fight with the virus, and this is the vaccination and testing of society, but also the current health situation and further progress and steps in this significantly aggravated situation. Three vaccines are now approved in the Czech Republic - AstraZeneca, Moderna and Pfizer, which also have the approval of the European Medicines Agency of the European Union, the so-called EMA. At the same time, however, other vaccines in other countries that did not pass the approval of the EMA, but were subjected to an assessment by the Member States concerned and were approved by the countries concerned. Yes, I wanted to ask about the vaccine Sputnik V, but of course other, because the information that comes to us is that they are already buying other countries such as Slovakia, Hungary, and they have given the appropriate permission and exemption in their countries. The Minister has actually said at present that he believes that Sputnik will be approved within the EMA, and therefore the possibility for the Czech Republic to buy the vaccine and, of course, to be vaccinated in the Czech Republic will be opened. [[18.00 hours]] At the same time, however, I must say that I am very disappointed by the Minister of Health's approach to this time, because it is interesting that the Office of the Government has sent a request to the State Institute for Drug Control to discuss or more or less address the issue of Sputnik V, but the Ministry of Health itself, which has a final thumb on whether an exemption is granted in the Czech Republic, is still being withdrawn and has not requested this exemption until now. Yes, there are other legal links, it was said that it would not be possible to pay from health insurance and so on, so, of course, the vaccines would probably not be possible for our citizens in this situation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-03-03-ps2017-087-02-008-485.u7	Madam, I'm sorry, I must interrupt you. I note for the record that Mrs Aulická was interrupted with the KSČM club's opinion, it is 18 o'clock. Mr Jurečka and Mrs Černochová, who I have signed up for the moment, will also speak with priority, and I am interrupting this point. Minister Blatný apologizes and goes to the meeting of the government, which begins at 18:00. Now we have a fixed point here.
