ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u1	9. The draft law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended /German press 986/5/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 986/6. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I welcome Senator Anna Hubáčková among us and I ask that Mrs Kateřina Valachová speak for the appellants for the resolution and for the amendments tabled. Madam, you have the floor. And please remain calm in the courtroom. One more time, please, calm down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, a protected account, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore you, esteemed colleagues, after 15 long years, when thousands, tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people had to deal with the situation of the attachment of all their income by the executor and remained without resources, even those that belonged to them or their children for livelihood -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u3	Then I will ask you once more to calm down, because the lady must be heard. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u4	- for livelihood and provision of basic needs, such as housing. These are so-called unforgivable amounts from already deducted part of the salary, salary, pensions. These people therefore properly pay their creditors maintenance or housing allowance or child allowance. Unfortunately, in addition to the partial deduction of wages and salaries, although the law forbids it, these latter amounts are often subject to enforcement. The point is, therefore, that for 15 years the laws of this country forbid something, but wrongful executions by virtue of the execution of unforgivable sums due after payment of debts to creditors are merry going on. The law of the law, the law of the law. What the House has approved is the possibility of setting up a protected account by the debtor, so that these unforgettable amounts are concentrated on one account and the account is banned from execution, there is no benefit to debtors, no charity, something that should be earned. Nor is it their responsibility that the state has committed laws against them for 15 years. What the House has approved, the introduction of protected accounts, is a fair means of complying with the law and the law working as it should. So far, there have been no obligations for bailouts, payers of uncustomable amounts, banks. For a long 15 years, the Ombudsman - that is where my professional interest in the matter comes from - and the NGOs and the mandatory themselves again and again had to document and prove to banks or executors or payers, employers, labour offices, what is and what is not impotent, and whether the execution is stopped, partially stopped. Please remember this part, colleagues and colleagues, because I want to return to it later. Yes, mandatory again and again, they had to document, prove to banks, bailouts and others what is unforgivable and whether the execution is to be stopped or partially stopped - you heard that it could not be recognized that the documents even for one amount sent to one account, such as the pension of the Czech Social Security Administration, were not enough to have no colour - and they remained unjustly without funds, although they had regular income or originally had. Employers, for reasons of eternal evidence and paperwork on various forms against whom such employees were often released from work first -
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u5	Well, I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down! There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u6	- or reluctantly employed. Such people became people without regular income. Not only to your own disadvantage and injustice, but logically to your creditors' failure to pay off debts. In order to prevent such practice, the Ministry of Justice came in cooperation with the Ombudsman and the Czech National Bank with a proposal for monitoring and coloring the amounts that the State, the law, we as legislators, we, colleagues and colleagues, respectively our predecessors, declared to be unforgivable, execution-free 15 years ago, forbid them to be executed. This long-term work is embodied in the House version of the protected account Valachová - Nacher. The fact that this is a functional effective system of protection of unfettered amounts confirms and supports, inter alia, the Ministry of Justice, the Judging Union, the trade union headquarters of ČMKOS, the employers' unions, the Czech National Bank, the Ombudsman, experts dealing with executions and knowledge of civil law, civil law and judicial practice, NGOs such as the Association of Civil Advisory or the Czech Association of Compulsory. In addition, most of them were directly involved in a solution agreed by the government and the House. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support the House's version, which certainly protects the mandatory and protects what law has guaranteed them for 15 years. Like I said, no favors. Of course, I noticed efforts to find other, alternative solutions and tried not to be authorically blinded, but also to find expert opinions that would verify to me that our House Way version of Valachová - Nacher really is correct. For me, such experts are my colleague Kasíková, the judge who knows the execution, I think you know her name, or Professor Lavickýý as head of the Department of Civil Law of Masaryk University. Both these authorities have confirmed to me that the House's version is more effective in protecting both the uncustomable amounts and the compulsory ones, and that this defence will work in practice. On the contrary, in the direction of the Senate version, they expressed doubts about such effective defences, especially in view of the fact that it is only mandatory from the Senate version's point of view, so that, as it has been so far in terms of partial and complete cessation of executions, it demonstrates what is incontrovertible and what is imposible, and also resolves unsatisfactoryly what happens when the debtor consumes such money on his account. For me, he becomes another debtor squared. That's not what protected accounts are supposed to be about. These are the accounts of the slave and the practice that governs. Thank you for your attention, and please, colleagues, support the House version of Valachová - Nacher, which you supported at the end of last year and which has resulted in a few years of joint work, as I said, and I thank the Ministry of Justice for its legislative support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u7	Now I ask Senator Anna Hubáčková to take the floor. And I'm begging you for peace. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament and honourable Members, I will follow up on Mrs Valachová and thank her that she and Mr Nacher took up the work that the Ministry or the Ministry should probably have done, and they have submitted and processed this material, this law, which is meant to protect the compulsory people in execution from having to be confiscated from their account and those funds which are unforgivable, such as housing benefits, child allowances, etc. The Senate has adopted amendments to these proposals, which - and I believe that this is the case - to improve and simplify the procedure for setting up an account and transferring money. He certainly doesn't create any environment so that he can deal with the money he wants, and he doesn't encourage him not to pay any debts. I would really like to say once again that it simplifies mandatory account creation and simplifies payments. It is also after consultation with the Czech Banking Association, with people who work long-term with these people, such as People in Need, Charity etc. So I beg you, too, for the overdrafts to approve the amendment tabled by the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u9	I am now asking whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who was the constitutionally-legal committee, Mr Marek Výborný, wants to comment on the Senate resolution, or will you leave it to the debate? [[Not until the debate.]] You will leave this to the general debate. [[This is Marie Beneš.]] Madam Secretary? I don't have anything to say to you here that you should be performing before the debate. [[With priority rights.]] With priority over the general debate? That's right. So the secretary has the floor. Yes, you can. Please. [[Marie Benešová: Just a short time.]] Long as it takes. Whatever you want. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u10	Thank you for the floor, and I just want to remind you that the Ministry of Justice has welcomed this initiative by Members Valachová - Nacher and we have fully supported it from the very beginning. We've provided synergies. I can actually confirm here that this has been carefully discussed with the Judging Union, with experts, so the result has pleased us and it is actually good that it has passed. I certainly do, even if she went through the Senate version, I think it will also be no horror, but with regard to our legislation, which has worked on this and supported the version of the Chamber of Deputies from the beginning, i.e. the House, I am working for the House version. Thank you. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u11	I am now opening a general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u12	Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Tomio Okamura, joined the debate and I will give him the floor. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD has long fought to help people in debt traps. We want to put an end to usury and promote the nationalisation of executors. The law before us has returned to us the Senate. The SPD movement supports the original House version of establishing a so-called protected account. In our opinion, the state has an obligation to set up a system so as not to be uncontrolled due to executors and loan sharks. And not only does the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD does not do this with the support of the KSČM, but it also parasites the state in executions by collecting, among other things, VAT from executions. The state and legislators also completely ignore the causes of executions and hypocritically and populistly try to flick only the most screaming holes in the system without thinking for a second how to change the system as a whole so that weirdness, debt traps and executions do not occur. The new law, which supports the SPD, establishes a protected account. Money institutions, banks, savings banks, but insurance companies, by the way, are another great topic and part of the system solution. I once suggested that the State should re-establish its own commercial bank, which will protect the population's savings and, at the same time, lend to the population on favourable terms that the State and the need for applicants will be able to determine. The last time I talked about it was in connection with last year's loans to companies, when the state announced that it would vouch for and contribute to commercial banks' loans. In other words, instead of lending money directly to companies or people, the state, according to the current model, is supposed to effectively reduce the risks of commercial banks and increase their profits from the state register instead of borrowing these profits itself or at least borrowing them without profit. In this respect, our system is unique throughout the civilized world. After all, Western governments are thinking a little economically, so they invest directly not only in industry but also in banks and are thus co-owners and recipients of dividends from both world-famous Western European car companies, but also from banks. Thus, the Czech worker not only works on German pensioners, but also contributes to Western governments and extreme fees in banks owned by foreign owners, among which are often governments of Western countries. France and Belgium, for example, jointly owned Dexia with hundreds of Belgian cities, thus at least part of the profits are returned to taxpayers. Another bonus is that in such banks public owners can determine more friendly rules and, of course, lower fees. And of course they do. The point is that one way to prevent usury and executions is to give people a different choice. The solution is not only a ceiling on the interest rates of RPSN, which is also proposed by the SPD - and the law on the ceiling of the RPSN is already here in the House for about two years and the other parties are blocking it - but also the possibility of a cheap loan from a state bank or state savings bank. If we were to clear outstanding loans from usury and execution fees and additionals, we would often get to less than half of the outstanding amount, and people could easily repay it even with interest to cover inflation. Establishment of a protected account is good. It's better than nothing to keep people left to eat. But I hope that perhaps most of you fellow Members will understand that this is not a solution to the debt trap. The solution is to liquidate the debt. This was partially understood by banks that offer commercial consolidation, but it does not, of course, offer it to people in executions. Such a service should be offered by a state bank. It is true that the sooner the debt is consolidated, i.e. converts from the loan shark to a normal regime with real interest and a real payment, making everything cheaper and more advantageous for all parties - for creditors, for the debtor and for the State that recovers the taxpayer, so far forced to make a living in black. This is better, because part of people are, of course, driven to criminal activity, and part of those who can't bear pressure commit suicide. The possibility that the state somehow helped people in need has actually been true for us after an incredible 300 years - since we became a Western European colony after joining the EU. The first monetary institution in the Czech lands became the Municipal mortgage and question office in Prague, Prague pawn shop, established by the imperial decree of 4 September 1747. These state pawnshops had one purpose - to give people a variant to loan sharks. The state pawnshops were abolished on 20 November 1951 by the government regulation on the abolition of state pawnshops, but at the same time their function was taken over by national banks and savings banks. By stealing from them, the banks, and by handing over the West in the 1990s, there was an era of state-sanctioned usury. That's today's execution system. And finally, by privatization, execution, and dysfunctional justice, the state has caused millions of people to beg. For 30 years, we have been hearing about the crimes of communism, and of course no one is questioning the alleged crimes of Stalinists, but it is time for us to start talking about the wrongs after 1989 and start correcting them. It's wrongs caused by an absolute will against helpless people. In fact, both historians and philosophers see that basically scenes change in history, but human nature remains the same, and if someone does not protect the weak, they abuse power, then it is always a fundamental problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we now approve here is only a small stone in the mosaic. You want to deal with the execution? So let's analyze the causes of the debt traps and let's deal with them. It's a big job. Yes, we would have to take a lot of unpopular measures since the ban on gambling, which has also destroyed millions of people, but it is spreading to cities and the state, we would have to impose the responsibility of judges for unfair judgments, the state would have to stop parasiticating on executions, and we would have to put the execution back into the hands of the state, the nationalisation of executors, which the SPD is promoting, and the law has been here for several months, and the other parties have rejected it, including government parties. Last but not least, interest on interest and other senseless fines and surcharges must be abolished and people should be allowed to pay off their debts and not just milk cows for loan sharks, including the state that still parasites in debt in the form of VAT, for example. That's what the SPD is promoting and proposing, these laws lie with us here, and unfortunately, the other parties are blocking them here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u14	Thank you to Tomi Okamur for his performance and the other speakers in the debate are Marek Výborný. I ask the House for peace. I repeat, who is discussing another subject, please in the foyer. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. I would also ask that colleagues either settle down or discuss the issue of the Civil Code either by applying for a debate or, if they are discussing another subject, in the foyer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u15	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I admire your patience and precision in managing the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, let me also comment on this amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure which introduces a protected account. To begin with, I would like to say clearly that I have no doubt at all and never doubted the goodwill of the petitioners Kateřina Valachová and Patrik Nacher, and finally, as I said at the hearing here at the Chamber of Deputies, it is worth thanking them, because the plan was originally that the protected account would be discussed together with the amendment to the order of execution, and when we look today at where we were in the House press of 545, it is good that the idea fell, that colleagues came up with it, they took it out, because the protected account is a big debt that we legislators to society and to the people who got into debt traps, on which today hangs execution, we do indeed have. Very briefly. The point is, unfortunately, thank you - and here we have to say critically again, because of the absurdity of our legal system, it is possible today also the amounts that we call unforgivable, and I think that my colleague Patrik Nacher mentioned it here today, the unforgivable amounts have increased, and although we call them unforgivable, they are actually entertainable. If anyone says it's absurd, it's true. We can't even add this to the bailiffs because the legal system allows it, and that's the mistake, that's the absurdity. It is right to proceed to a regime that operates normally abroad, in Germany for decades, and this is a so-called protected account. Thus, the fact that in that particular account, the unforgivable amount will actually be protected and can not be subject to execution, nor any further in order. So much for just explaining what's going on and what's going to prevent it, regardless of whether it's going to be adopted by the Senate or the House version. At the same time, I would like to thank Senator Hubáčková and the Senate as a whole, because if I'm not mistaken, the Senate with all the votes...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u16	So I'd really like to ask you to calm down, because there are some screams, even in the O.R., so we really need to calm down again. I have already been significantly turned on by Mr. Výborný, so I must intervene. [[Member Excellent: Yes.]] So, please, calm down! There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u17	Well, maybe... I was used to waiting at school until the class calmed down...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u18	Okay, well... So I'm really asking you to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u19	So I'll wait for the House to calm down, and we'll continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u20	So we don't have to keep the MP waiting, please, really, really calm. Let's wait a little longer. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u21	Just like the good old days. Now let's get to the senát. Once again, I would like to thank the Senate for taking this House's press into account, with this proposal for an amendment to the Civil Procedure Code, in detail, and for finally accepting what we have discussed here in the House, because the Senate version that is returning to us does not bring any dramatic change, but it brings simplification: the simplification of the existence and functionality of the protected account, which should be the goal of all of us. If I should merely recapitulate this very briefly, it mainly concerns the establishment of a protected account, because at the moment, as we have approved the House version, the condition is the existence of a current account affected by the execution. In fact, today, hundreds of thousands of debtors have no account, because they have it sent to their siblings' accounts in an instant, in cash and in other possible ways, and they're all on it. It is lost not only by the debtor, but by the state, by the employer, for which it is more complicated, more demanding etc. So the regime we're going to implement, we're going to help everyone here, and that's our goal. We're not just trying to save these people, but we're trying to get them back into the system. In the finals, it will help the state, because the state will be paid taxes, taxes, and that is our goal, that is our purpose. So instead of having to have the account as such, to which the executor would subsequently have to deal with this account by execution, which may sometimes take not only a few weeks, but perhaps even months for those slow executors, and then a circle would have to follow. This means the mandatory would have to address those who send funds to the account, whether it's nutritious, whether it's income, etc., and then again through the executor to get back to the bank itself, so the Senate proposal simplifies this dramatically and says: You want to have a protected account, of course, you have to have it either established or set it up. And the moment you prove it, the moment the person proves he's being executed against him, the protected account is set up. Very simple. Similarly, this applies to sending payments to a protected account, where in the House version the debtor must undergo a very complex de facto process for each individual payment to be admitted to the account. In this sense, the Senate proposal again simplifies this in a significant, significant way. In the Senate version, the debtor is to provide the payer with a protected account number, and the money is sent there immediately, so that there is not even a dangerous time limit for some executives who could use the extension of the time limit between setting up the account and sending the amount in order to do something about it. So these are simplifications, the two fundamentals, let's say, that is for setting up an account and sending payments to a protected account that the Senate version provides, and so I can confirm what was said here by the Senator. This version of the protected account will be more functional and will really help everyone, especially the state itself. I would also like to thank you, because the Senate version was not actually written on its knees in the Senate, it was communicated with the Ministry of Finance, it was also communicated with organisations that have been working with debtors for years, with those hundreds of thousands of debtors, whether it is the Charity of the Czech Republic, RUBIKON, Institute for Pre-debtion Prevention or Man in Need. And I am deeply convinced that if it had not really been so functional, these organisations would never have supported this, this was never recommended for adoption and approval. And what's important, and you know that I repeat it here repeatedly during these discussions about executions, insolvency: we have to look for balance, the balance and the functionality of the system itself. I therefore welcome the support of this proposal, as forwarded to the Senate, by the Czech Banking Associations, because in the finals of the bank, they will be one of the parts that is very important and will be institutions that, if they are unable to administer the protected account, will simply not arise, or will arise in significantly smaller quantities than we all want. So the balance lies also in the support of the Czech Banking Association, and on the other hand, as I say, the debtor organisations. I appreciate that very much, and it is one of the clear evidence that it would be right for us, as the House, to support the Senate version. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you for that. In any case, I am glad that the saga of the protected account is over and that we will send out this signal that the fate of the people who have entered the debt traps - and unfortunately, even as a result of COVID-19, there will be even more of them next year or next summer - is not indifferent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u22	I will now ask for Mr Patrik Nacher's speech and Mr Lukáš Kolářík will prepare himself. So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u23	Madam Secretary, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, have a good evening. I would also look at it from another point of view, so that we don't repeat what was said here in those three readings. Anyway, today is from the point of view of humanization and cultivation of the environment by a large day, because a protected account will be approved, whether in any form, whose main objective, as has already been said, is to protect an unforgivable amount, or also an otherwise unforgivable minimum. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] He already spoke of it by colleague Výborný and colleague Valachová. We live in a paradoxical situation, that something is called unforgettable, and yet it was possible to confiscate it, which is absolutely incredible. But that was the practice. A protected account was supposed to be introduced for me some ten years ago, and then we could avoid the system where there are hundreds of thousands of people in the gray zone. If you look at how the unforgivable amount developed, I will compare January 2018, 2021, so three years ago it was CZK 6,225, at this time it is almost 7,900. When we look at the unforgivable amount of the dependant, it was 1 556, now it's more than CZK 1,100, 2 624. [[19.30 hours]] I'm not counting on it to complicate things here, the calculations of the next thirds, two thirds and so on, depending on whether these people have preferential claims or not. In other words, in parallel with the fact that a protected account is created here, we increase the unforgettable amount, because otherwise, of course, it wouldn't make any sense at all. We have a Chamber and a Senate version ahead of us. Needless to say, everyone has something. By the way, the Justice Department supported and supported the House, the Treasury Senate. As has already been said, part of the nonprofit sector supported the House version, part - I think you received the emails yesterday - and the Senate version. When we look at it from the perspective of the players, who we have there: borrowers, employers, banks, executives. I'll make it short, 'cause it's 7:30. Each one of those versions has something to do with it. Executors have fewer obligations - if I were to simplify this a lot - in the House version, instead, banks in the Senate, because they will not transfer funds from their current account to protected ones. When we look at employers, they have a better position in the House version, because they're going to send money to a current account, so they won't have to change the account number. When we look at it from the perspective of debtors, there is also a fifty-fifty fifty, because on the one hand, let's say, in this House version, it is more complicated to set up and send. At the same time, however, in the Senate version, the debtor must participate more and communicate with the executor as regards any payments that the executor will not seem to have. Which is not in the House version. As I said at the press conference, I will personally support my original proposal, the House version. But anyway, whether it goes through the House today or the Senate version, today, January 19, we will remember that on the day that Miroslav Kalousek gave up his mandate after twenty-two years, we also approved the protected account for which we had been waiting here for ten years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u24	Thank you, too. Good evening, everyone, and we will continue with the debate in which Mr Kolařík is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u25	Thank you for the floor. I'll take it very quickly, too, because that's the last point and it's an advanced hour. I will not describe what a protected account does and what it can do, because my colleagues have already described it here, and how the legislative process has been going on for some time, it is probably quite clear to everyone. I'd focus on the differences in those versions. We have two versions here. One is a House which essentially allows the creation of a protected account that is linked to the debtor's current account. It works that if payments are made to a current account, the bank automatically filters payments on the basis of variable and special symbols on the basis of a counter-account, and those which are legally protected as an unusable payment are automatically deposited in a protected account. For the debtor, this gives a certain advantage that he has only the amount he can have on his account, he doesn't have to deal with anything, he can use normal means of payment, such as a card, which is quite important at this time of the covido. And basically everything happens in a sort of automatic way in the background, there are no problems with that, except for a little bit worse setting up an account at the beginning, as has already been said here. The Senate version completely leaves out the role of banks. In essence, the protected account is not linked to the current account as set up by banks, and all payments come into the protected account of the debtor. He has to check regularly the payments he's making so that he doesn't accidentally get any payments that aren't legally protected as impoundible, and he doesn't spend it. Because the moment he did this, of course, he would have to replace the amount. It could be complicated for him. He's putting himself out there for some kind of non-observation penalty. This means that he has to watch permanently how he receives regular payment orders, how he gets those payments, how it moves there. And in case the executor isn't dreaming, he's gonna want to get an explanation. And this, in turn, brings some administrative demands on debtors who - and let's face it - are not always literate both financially and administratively to do this without the help of any nonprofit organizations or anyone in the immediate vicinity. That is why we pirát support the House version, because it does not expose debtors to constant control and constant evidence and evidence of movements in the account, and it is some sort of shift. We prefer the involvement of banks in the whole process because they are bank accounts, so we want banks to be part of it, to automate it, to make it work automatically, to move forward in this sector. And we need to stop closing our eyes, because for a large part of the people in the execution process, the great amount of administrative and bureaucratic burdens during the use of the account will be such a problem and such a scarecrow that I think that the version, as recommended by the Senate, will not be used. At least not to the extent that it passes through the House version, which will be more user-friendly and will provide much more protection for debtors so that, as has already been said here, what is truly unforgivable is not confiscated by them. Thank you for the support of the House version and thank you to all colleagues for the correct discussion of this press.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u26	Thank you. I'm going to ask the House for more peace. This was the last written application for the debate. If no one checks in, and I don't see anybody, I'm done with the debate. With a point of fact, Mr Výborný. I'd give you the right to a final word, but please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u27	I am only allowed to respond to my colleague Lukáš Kolářík. It is not that this would pose a huge problem for the debtor concerned. After all, the debtor will send the unforgivable amount to a protected account, and it will be up to the executor, not the debtor. The bailiff's gonna have to keep an eye on it, he'll even have a six-month deadline. And if the bailiff doesn't perform his duties, he's gonna miss a six-month deadline, so he's just unlucky. The amount, even if it were above the unforgivable amount, will become unforgivable. And if there is a problem, the bailiff will call on the debtor, and the debtor must explain within 30 days where the amount came from, whether it is really inconvenient. And if it's confiscated, it'll actually be transferred to the executor, that's for sure. But that's how it works very easily, and the responsibility isn't for the debtor, but it's for the bailiff. It's just a matter of fact, about what was said here. Thank you. And thank you for supporting the Senate version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-01-19-ps2017-079-01-009-009.u28	Thank you. That was a factual point. So I will ask again if anyone else is applying to the general debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I will ask if there is an interest in the final word on the part of the plaintiff Mrs Valachová? [[It's not.]] Mrs. Senator Hubáčková's side? [[It's not.]] On the part of the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Excellent, I presume it is not. So we will now proceed to the vote under Paragraph 94 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4, Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. There's a checkout request. I'll check you all out, please sign up with your cards again. Once again, we will vote on the Senate version first. It requires the consent of an absolute majority of Members present to adopt it. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, as amended, and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules for cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended, pursuant to House Press 986/5, as approved by the Senate pursuant to House Press 986/6.' [[Conditions of execution]] This is therefore a motion for a resolution. We're voting on the Senate version. Initiating vote. I said, who's for the Senate version? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33, 160 Members and Members are registered, for 75, against 10. The draft Senate version was therefore not adopted. [[19.40 hours]] We will therefore move on to the next vote. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. We've already set most of it up. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial executioners and enforcement activities, enforcement order, as amended and Act No. 119/2001 Coll., laying down rules on cases of simultaneous enforcement of decisions, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to the Parliamentary Press 986/5.' Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. We are voting on the House version. Who's against it? Thank you. Vote number 34. 158 Members and Members are registered, for 143, against no one. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you to the appellant, thank you to the Senator, thank you to the rapporteur. This concludes the discussion of Senate returns for today, on which we extended today's negotiations even after 19 and 21 o'clock. Given the situation in the room, I can see that there is no further possibility. Let me just remind you that tomorrow we start at 9:00. Under the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, given the epidemic situation, we will act in half. Tomorrow's the first point... we'll start with the block of third reading. These are points 347 to 352. Laws from the block of second reading will follow, if necessary. At the end of the day, we then include changes in the composition of the institutions. Have a nice evening, and I'm done with tonight's meeting.
