ParlaMint-CZ_2021-08-06-ps2017-116-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 116th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I would remind you that at the 111th session of the Chamber of Deputies, by resolution 1744, we laid down more detailed rules for the negotiations and the seating arrangements in this Chamber. Please don't forget to sign up for the presentation papers in the lobby and then log in to your conference system unit. At the same time, you must always check out before leaving the hall. I would also like to remind you that only factual remarks can be made through the units of the conference system in the debate. Proper applications for the debate may be submitted only in writing, in the case of the operator of the voting device or from the point of raising his hand. I would like to ask you for written applications in view of the fact that this meeting room is different and is not quite well seen backwards. [[Members draw attention to very poor audibility.]] It's not my fault you can't hear. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 47 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 30 July this year. Is that better? So I'm going to ask you to calm down in the O.R. to try to keep the atmosphere down, because it's obvious that this apparatus that we're not used to isn't 100% efficient, and we can't hear and understand. I can't go any closer to the microphones. I can't do that anymore. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr Jaroslav Holík. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I see no one, so we will vote on this proposal. I've started the vote. Please vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number one, 85 Members voted in favour of 81, there was no one against it. The motion was accepted. I note that we are the verifiers of the 116th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies designated by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mr Jaroslav Holík. I hereby declare that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the proceedings: Vondráček Radek - family reasons, Bartoš Ivan - working reasons, Bělica Josef - family reasons, Bendl Petr - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej - personal reasons, Birke Jan - without reason, Blaha Stanislav - personal reasons, Blažková Irena - family reasons, Černochová Jana - working reasons, Černý Alexander - health reasons, Červíčková Monika - health reasons, Dolejš Jiří - personal reasons, Elfmark František - family reasons, Farskýý Jan - family reasons, GajdůškováKlaus Alena - family Václav, Golasowská Pavla - working reasons, Grebeníček Miroslav - health reasons, Kováčik - family Pavel, Hájek Josef - family reasons, Chvojka Jan - family reasons, Jakob Jan - Kalous Adam, Janda Jakub Iva - personal reasons, Miloslavová - personal Miloslav - health reasons - health Grospič, Kálová Stanislav, Káčová reasons, Kláčová Janulík, family Krutáková, Káčová Jana - family Vymazal, Kytýr Jaroslav - family reasons, Langšádlová Helena - personal reasons, Levová Jana - health reasons, Majerová Zahradníková Zuzana - work reasons, Mališ Přemysl - family reasons, Martinů Jaroslav - family reasons, Michálek Jakub - personal Vyzula, Mračková Vildumetzová Jana - family reasons, Oborná Monika - health reasons, Onderka Roman - family reasons, Ožanová Zuzana - family Venhoda, Pávek Petr - family reasons, Pawlas Daniel - family Radek, Pikal Vojtěch - health reasons, šindelář Pavel - family Tureček, Plzák Pavel - family reasons, Pražák David - working reasons, Procházková Věra - working reasons, Pustějovský Karel - foreign trip, Růžička Vůžka Pavel - family Rostislav - Zbyněk Valachová. Mr Krejza excused today for the whole extraordinary meeting without giving any reason, Mrs Šlechtová for the whole day of the hearing for personal reasons. Members of the Government: Babiš Andrej - working reasons, Benešová Marie - personal reasons, Brabec Richard without giving reason, Dostálová Klára - family reasons, Hamáček Jan - personal reasons, Metnar Lubomír - personal reasons, Plaga Robert - family reasons, Schillerová Alena - working reasons, Toman Miroslav - working reasons, Vojtěch Adam - personal reasons, Zaorálek Lubomír - personal reasons. We will now proceed to the appointment of the 116th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So, I'm gonna vote on the agenda. I've started the vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number two, 99 Members voted in favour of 90, no one opposed it. The motion was accepted. The agenda has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the first item on the show
