ParlaMint-CZ_2021-02-19-ps2017-085-01-000-000.u1	So we have 12 hours and the time has just passed for a break, which was requested by the Chairman of the TOP 09. However, since the President of the Chamber of Deputies convened the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at 12 o'clock, the 84th meeting cannot now be continued. We will therefore attend the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and in order to record our participation, I will first sign you off and I would like you all to sign up with identification cards and, if necessary, to tell me who is asking for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 40 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on 12 February. We shall now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. Does anyone else have a suggestion? [[He doesn't.]] So I'm taking the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number one, 77 Members signed up, for 77, against none. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies the 85th meeting of Mr Vít Rakušan and Mr Tomáš Vymazal. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 85th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application and no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. So I'm going to sing because we're going to vote again. So now we will vote on the whole proposal for the 85th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In vote number 2 registered 88 Members, for 84, against none. The agenda has been approved. And now we're going to proceed to the one point of the show that is
