ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u1	381. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1025/ - third reading I ask that the rapporteur's seat take its place as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, thank you, and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Lenka Dražilová. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 1025/7, which was delivered on 16 April 2021. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 1025/8. I'm asking the plaintiff if she's interested in a performance. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Madam, honourable Members, this is a key proposal that we may finally approve at the third reading today, and I am very pleased about it, and I am even more pleased...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u3	I understand, Mr. Secretary. I'm asking you once more to calm down. There's half of us here, but you can't tell from the noise. You who are discussing, please go outside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u4	Thank you. I am even more pleased that we have an agreement on how the cursarbeit should look, not only within the coalition, and I would like to express my support for the comprehensive amendment by Mr Sklenák, Mrs Pastuchová and Mrs Aulická, but also in particular we have a consensus within the tripartite framework. It is really a detailed and hard-working law, and I warmly thank all those involved. The main principles, because it is really important, the cursarbeit will run by the government after discussing tripartite and can identify regions or sectors in which the cursarbeit will be launched. Compared to the original government proposal, the government may also set out indicators according to which a group of employers entitled to a contribution will be designated. [[9.10 hours]] In the event of a crisis, the cursarbeit can run for the first time for a maximum of six months, not for six months, but for a maximum of six months, and then it can extend it repeatedly by a maximum of three months. Overall, cursarbeit can run for a maximum year. This is really very important, at most one year. When an employer is hit by a crisis according to the parameters set out in the government regulation and only allocates work to a range of 20 to 80 per cent at work, it will again be laid down in the government regulation. The scope will be calculated collectively, not for individual employees. If the employer is divided into parts, such as establishments, the rate of not assigning work will always be calculated only for the specific part. The employee will receive a minimum of 80 per cent pay compensation during the period of the obstacles. In a number of cases, this will result in a higher wage compensation than that imposed by the Labour Code today. Today, according to the type of obstacle at work, it is 60 to 100 percent. In the crisis, we will not only protect jobs, but we will also avoid a major decline in income for employees, and this is important for the protection of consumption in the economy. I really see this as one of the essential and key benefits of this joint proposal. With regard to cooperation between firms and labour offices, the employer shall send a cost overview by the 20th day of the following month at the latest and, after receiving an overview, have eight days to send a contribution. It is really important - if the employer wants money on time, he can send it to the 2nd and by 10 at the latest, he will have money from the employment office in the account. If the employer sends the costs - and I have just mentioned this - the first week of the following month, he will get the money very soon. If he sends the costs or the cost overview of the 20th of the month, he will have it eight days later. I'm just reminding you that with Antivirus, we manage to send contributions on average six days after receiving an overview. In certain regions it is a much shorter time, in Prague it is about six days. And the employer will be able to use them to pay the employees and to pay the contributions. Once again, this cash flow adjustment is crucial to me, because I think that employers should not pre-finance wages in the context of cursarbeit. This means that if we give 80 per cent pay to employees, which is very generous, the second part is important for employers, so that they do not have to prefinance their wages. The employer will receive 80 per cent of the cost from the State, i.e. compensation for wages and contributions, up to a maximum of 1.5 times the average wage. Employers who will be included in the cursarbeit will not be allowed to pay dividends after a legal period. That is what I think is also innovation, a novelty in Czech legislation, and it is the right thing to do. Those who think that they would have to lay off because of the economic crisis should not pay dividends. With the agreement of the employment office and the employer, employees will be able to participate in the activities of further education or retraining, once again the key thing, so that in these classic economic crises we prepare for changes related to automation and robotics, which means changes caused by the so-called 4.0 industry. Indeed, the time when employees are at an obstacle is to be used for further education and retraining. Employees supported from the Kursarbeit will also not be able to be fired immediately after the end of the aid, they will be protected half the time during which they received a contribution to the Kursarbeit so that they would not be kept by anyone just for contributions and then immediately resigned after the crisis. We must protect jobs in a crisis. The costs of layoffs are huge for both the state, which then has huge spending, for example, with benefits, and for employees who have to work for the employment office and who are looking for a new job, and for employers who have invested in training, training and employee retention. That means it's really convenient for all three sides. And I think that it is also important in view of the amendments that have been tabled. The aim of cursarbeit is to maintain employment, not to fire people from work, as Mrs Pekarová Adamová proposes. That's really not what cursarbeit is about. As regards the amendments aimed at improving the functioning of labour offices and the Czech administration, I would like to support them. The first is Mr Novák's amendment, which limits unnecessary administration in granting unemployment aid. This change will help both job seekers and employment authorities to focus instead of paperwork on helping clients. The second amendment tabled by Mrs Aulická Jírovcová once again limits unnecessary paperwork, puts us into the 21st century, strengthens digitalisation by extending digital communication between labour authorities and the Czech Social Security Administration through the so-called B2B communication. Finally, honourable Members, the joint amendment is the result of intensive negotiations, both at political level and at the level of social dialogue, and I am asking you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u5	Thank you. I am opening the debate and Mrs Pastuchová is the first to sign up. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Only very briefly, because the entire law was introduced here by the Minister. I would like to say, first of all, that I am very pleased that we have arrived today, I think, after a common agreement, to vote at third reading. This law - I think we've found a consensus that at first, as you all know, wasn't, but I think we've all really worked out a great deal of work on it, we've all been able to retreat, and we've finally agreed together. About five constructive negotiations took place, along with tripartite, as the Minister said, and this resulted in a comprehensive amendment under letter C, which I present together with my fellow Member, Sklenák and Mrs Aulicka Jírovcová. Once again, I want to thank everyone for this work, and for myself, I would like to stress that I am particularly pleased with the two things that have been maintained in the joint proposal, and that the employees will receive their money from the employer, not from the employment office, and that they will receive it on the same day as the payout, on a proper pay-out date, so that their solvency will not be compromised and they will be able to continue paying their mortgages and other things as they were used to. We will support the comprehensive amendment for the YES movement, so it is logical, and the other two amendments that the Minister has also mentioned here, and this is the amendment of Mr Novák and Mrs Hana Aulickáý Jírovcová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u7	I thank you, and before I give the floor to Mrs Šafránková, who will give us the opinion of the SPD, a factual remark, Mr Munzar. Well, that was just some mistake on the voting device, so I'm canceling. So, Mrs. Šafránková, the club's position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to the opinion of our MP SPD on the Employment Act, typically in Czech to the so-called Kursarbeit. We have been involved in the whole several months of negotiations on this proposal and have sought to take account of our requirements, which mainly aimed at preventing low-income employees, small employers and tradesmen from being put at a disadvantage in the model of aid setting at the time of partial employment or partial unemployment. It was a vital requirement for us to have employees in fixed-term employment to be entitled to this aid. It is a request that has been made by the SPD throughout the negotiations and on which we have always consistently insisted. So we welcome that the last proposal contains this requirement, and we will also support it in the final vote. This will help employees to work parttime, young employees, pre-retirement workers, disabled employees, single parents and parents with young children, which are the groups to which the Institute of temporary employment is most frequently used. [[9.20 hours]] At the same time, it is also very important for us that, in the system of support at the time of part-time work, the payment dates for employees are not affected in any way. Therefore, we prefer the aid model, which is based on the payment of the state financial contribution directly to employers in the form of reimbursement of part of the cost of wages and social and health insurance. We also support other proposals that will improve the situation of our employees and employers, whether they relate to the maximum amount of this support or to the forgiveness of part of the compulsory contributions. We consider the issue of protecting and maintaining our employees' jobs as a key prerequisite for maintaining and improving the standard of living and the perspective of our working citizens. We will support the proposals that will take it into account with our votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u9	Thank you. Next, Mrs Valachová is enrolled in the debate, and Mr Bauer will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u10	Mr President, my colleagues, my colleague, my dear government, I am very happy for this bill that it is going into the final vote today. We all remember the moment of this government proposal in the autumn of last year, when we faced the fact that almost 400,000 employees were in a situation where they only received 60% of their wages as a result of the economic crisis caused by coronavirus. I am very glad that this bill gives the chance and tools to the government to influence the economic sectors, to influence the capacity, employment and capacity of companies in the regions, and that this is the minimum amount of 80 per cent of the wage that employees and employees can reach from the point of view of their social rights and the right to pay for the work done. The reason is simple. The purpose of cursarbeit in countries to the west of us is not only to maintain employment, but also to give people a chance to pay - as some of my previous speakers have already mentioned - their normal cost of living and to gain a chance for companies and people to overcome economic difficulties, to keep their jobs, not to catch economic sectors and regions, not to deepen economic differences between regions and to get back into shape of the economy, and thus, of course, the natural course of labour relations and the restoration of full employment at full pay. I think that the bill, as amended by the amendments for the efforts of all the colleagues who are here, meets this, and I am very pleased that this is a law that also has the support of employers and representatives of union employees. You know that this is rarely going to happen, and I am glad that today is the final proposal that I believe we are voting across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u11	Thank you, too. With priority, the rapporteur wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u12	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. On behalf of my colleague Juříček, I will read the draft legislative technical regulation, the text of which is as follows. In the amendment marked in the Houses of the Press 1025/7 as G5, House document 8107, the words "aid at a time of partial employment" are replaced by the words "allowance at a time of partial labour" and "aid" by the word "allowance." This is merely a harmonisation of terminology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u13	Thank you. Mr Bauer, Mrs Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u14	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief statement on behalf of the Citizen's Democratic Party. Now I quote: "A compromise as a prize, the deal for the cursarbeit is cooked, so tonight we will approve the proposal to the government and can go to the House. I believe that even in the House it will go smoothly and cursarbeit from November will follow up on the ending Antivirus." That's just a quote from Secretary Jana Maláčová from September 2020, unbelievable to me. After all, we received a proposal to introduce aid at a time of partial unemployment already in the autumn of 2020, and we should have decided on it in the legislative emergency regime. We're going to vote on it today, which means until May 7, 2021, for some of the reasons I've said on this microphone many times. In any normal functioning country, such a delay in such an important standard and in such a tense time would logically go against the opposition, which is us. This does not apply to the Czech Parliament, because in our country the proposal to introduce the so-called Kursarbeit opposition really openly, and I think unanimously, from the outset, supported by all the votes. The government coalition itself has boycotted it, and I think we all know that. I was incredibly shaking my head in the fall, when on one day the proposal in the House was flamingly defended by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, while the Prime Minister was burying the same proposal in the media. That's just the way it was. And in disbelief, I was twisting my head for months when the carnage of the cursarbeit continued. So we might actually be able to relax today that after the annabáz, we're probably gonna get some closure today through the vote. On the other hand, I'm not that happy about it. First, it turns out how little this government cares about people, businesses, employers, specific problems, often existentials that fell on them during the covideo pandemic. The government members led by the Prime Minister often just used their proposals to present themselves in the media and heat up their own soup, but they didn't really care that this standard was idle in the House. It's very important. I have taken the hard work to see if, at least once on the premises of this House, Mr. Transport and Industry Superminister Karel Havlíček was present, and I must say that it is also simply unbelievable and unbelievable for me that not once during that quarter of a year he did not show up here and that this House, whether the government MPs or opposition MPs, did not have the opportunity to hear the opinion of the key Minister of Industry on this key standard. I'm very curious after this proposal is likely to be agreed today when in a few weeks or months it will be wondering what's in there. Secondly, once again, the great gap between the media message of government action and reality has proved to be. Yeah, every politician is painted pink in front of the camera, but this was a really big bluff. Since autumn, we almost all agree that we need reasonable rules of cursarbeit, yet we have to watch until now before the government parties agree. Thirdly - and I think this is perhaps the most serious - the approval of the cursarbeit demonstrates the absolute inability of the government to manage the process of developing individual laws. And what I'm saying here is, unfortunately, it's not just a cursarbeit. When I look further into the context of social laws, we have two other government proposals that have the potential to fundamentally intervene in people's lives, such as the amendment to the Act on the provision of services in children's groups and the amendment to the Act on Social Law Protection for Children. Both of these proposals are already waiting for final approval, but apparently - and we have also heard it here today from the President of the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club - are likely to return to second reading alongside the cursarbeit. [[9.30 hours]] All these laws combine one thing: the government approved them regardless of the fact that there was neither political nor professional agreement on them, and in principle it does not matter whether in one case it is necessary to seek and negotiate with the trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce and, in another case, with foster parents and caring courts. The government approved these proposals even though it knew they would become on the soil The Chambers of Deputies will have a tearing calendar, and they will be clashed by government MPs themselves, which we have witnessed here for three quarters of a year. There may be two explanations: either the government is so incompetent, or it doesn't really matter to her. Achievements are self-inflicted and failed by the MPs, preferably the opposition ones. I really consider this a very dangerous precedent, and it was not so long ago that we got rid of a number of vices, such as related stickers to the law. Now we're witnessing the government sending a paperwork to the House that she can't agree on her own on how to run a belt. So, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, you rule, government, miserable, you call for cooperation, which in fact you despise, you simply create topics, you unleash media mist around them, and you give the impression of hectic work. I would like to say that we will still decide how we will vote on this bill at the end, especially according to what amendments will be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u15	Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Mr Sklenák, then Mrs Valachová. I'm gonna read an apology real quick. She apologizes to Minister Marie Benešová for her work-related reasons today. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I volunteered in response to my previous speaker. Yes, it is true that the discussion of this press on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies took several months. On the other hand, let us consider what is involved in the press, how serious it will have consequences and how important it is for employees and employers. When I compare this seriousness with some of the other amendments or laws that we've been discussing here, I think that time is quite adequate. Let us remember - because I have been among those who have been in the making of this law since the beginning, and I know with what honesty all those involved have approached it and have tried to find the best version, when we have thought about all the possible situations that may arise - it is, let's see, a universal tool that should serve, it is our ambition, in the decades to come, for the various critical situations that may occur. And it will also have huge implications if it is launched into the state budget. These estimates, if the cursarbeit were applied to the whole Republic, are up to CZK 2.6 billion a month. It is also necessary to realise that we had to be very careful to see compliance with the law of the European Union. That's only three things, but there were many others, how to even build that amendment from the point of view of law, from the point of view of legislation. So, yes, it took longer, but I am convinced that in this case it was for the benefit of the cause.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u17	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Valachová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u18	Hundreds of thousands of jobs until now are effectively protected by the Antivirus program. We have the rights of people, the rights in terms of their assessment and ensuring their work, the preservation of their work in times of economic crisis, first and foremost. In the first place! As far as the rules of cursarbeit are concerned, yes, it is not only the preservation of these social rights, but it will certainly have significant implications and it is an important instrument for managing the effects of the crisis, for preventing them and for starting up and changing the structure of the economy and the economy. That's where I agree with my previous speaker, Jan Bauer. Yes, this is not just a matter of the Ministry of Labour, it is a matter of economic policy of the state and, without a doubt, of the Minister of Industry and Trade. What is important: the government has managed to find a consensus on this, and I believe that we are the moment before we are approved, how to incorporate this instrument into our right and how to be prepared not only for this crisis, the coronavirus crisis, but for all possible future crises. And ladies and gentlemen, shall we pour some pure wine that has prevented the past decades from accepting such a thing? We would have liked to have something like this here a year ago and could have just grasped it, for example, on the basis of the economic crisis in 2010, and in the years to come, just to take it as a result of the coronavirus crisis, to apply it, to start and to make use of it. There was no such thing. So let us not tarnish our joint work of Members and Members, it is a momentous moment today, and let us make sure that the rules of cursarbeit work as quickly as possible and that they can protect both the rights of employees and our companies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u19	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Munzar, then Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Hello, colleagues, and I would like to respond to my two previous speakers, through you, first to my colleague Sklenák. I agree that this can have huge implications for the state budget and it is a significant intervention for both employees and employers. I just want to stress here what our colleague Honza Bauer said here, namely that we need a key standard here and we should have the position of a key member of the government in charge of industry and trade, and that is Minister Havlíček. Unfortunately, I don't remember him ever coming out here to discuss this law with anything. I just think that's a shame, because we need both looks from the government. And I'm just taking the liberty, and that's why I applied to Mrs Valachová: you said that the Antivirus program protects employees. You have already forgotten to add one key issue, namely that then employers who receive compensation from the Antivirus program, so according to the checks they walk, up to 40 percent of them must return either fully or partially those compensations. And then the whole help is denied in this way. That was just a reaction to the sentence about antivir. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u21	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u22	Thank you very much. I would also like to respond to my previous speaker, who spoke about restructuring the economy. I am concerned that if the proposal is approved in the form in which you have submitted it, any restructuring may never occur, because I think the cursarbeit may be a good servant, but a bad master. The moment the government runs it, and the government will have a blank check to run it in any cyclical crisis, any changes in the labour market, and will maintain so-called zombies places, places that are not promising, so of course it will have huge negative effects on the labour market and on the restructuring of the economy. The principle that you already want to pay 20 percent of the week's worked time means that you want to pay for the places that would have died anyway, which have no potential. So these are things that, in my opinion, make a good idea something that can really hurt the economy. According to international comparisons, the Czech Republic also has a major problem with the inflexibility of the labour market. Our employers have very difficult conditions in terms of hiring and, in particular, redundancies. At first glance, it may be an advantage for those employees, but in more detail, we find that the employers are then afraid to hire new employees because they have incredible problems with their dismissal and incredible costs. Unfortunately, this almost never sounded during the debate on cursarbeit. So I'm afraid in this proposal, as you put it, it's really the bad guy who can preserve the zombies here, the zombie companies, and hinder the necessary economic restructuring.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u23	Thank you. We'll continue with the facts. First, Minister Maláčová, Mrs Valachová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u24	Thank you. I would like to speak to Mr Skopeček - please, just briefly before you comment on this proposal, so read it at least once. You're proving repeatedly that you haven't read the proposal. [[9.40 hours]] There is no mention that cursarbeit will be launched only under conditions of 20 per cent of work and 80 per cent does not work, but it is an interval that the government decides according to the type of crisis. And you know that the classic economic crisis is counting on 60 percent of the work, a maximum of 40 percent of the work, and yet every single unfinished hour proves itself. It's based on the principle of obstacles to work. That means - I see you haven't read the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u25	Another factual point, Mrs Valachová, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u26	I am glad that on the ground plan of this law we are talking about the economy and its future. I think that's right, and I don't really mind. I would just like to say that these rules of cursarbeit, as they are negotiated, have the support of the Confederation of Industry and Transport, they have the support of the Confederation of Employers' Unions, and I feel that it is on the basis of the latest adjustments made by the Chamber of Commerce. I suppose our captains of the Czech industry did not fall from cherries and would not support something that would be of no economic importance. Therefore, at this point, I do not mind much that even at the end of this discussion we lack the Minister of Industry. I consider it absolutely crucial to the consensus of the social partners - and as I say, this does not happen often, if ever, colleagues and colleagues, mostly this House divides itself into the right part, which furiously defends what employers think and the left part, which furiously defends what employees and unions think. At this point, we've managed to find a match. We're going to build on this agreement - certainly, the activation of the cursarbeit rules doesn't happen just by the government looking out the window of Straka's academy, it happens after discussing the parameters with the tripartite. Personally, I would prefer to be stronger in the position of employers' associations and representatives of employees and trade unions, as is the case in Germany, for example, but by your means, Mr President, I think that even then my colleague Skopeček and Munzar would not be satisfied with me. So let us be happy for this compromise. It's a good building block. Let's be lucky to have the cursarbeit rules. We will be better prepared, not only our government, but also the coming governments, for possible economic difficulties of a different nature. That's the added value. And today, let us approve the new rules of cursarbeit, which support both employers' unions and employees' representatives, trade unions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u27	Thank you. Mr Grospič, in fact, Mr Skopeček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, through you, to my previous speakers. I am also very pleased that the so-called tripartite agreement has taken place in this law and that this bill is already moving into reality, which may be a compromise, but it is a compromise that we must try, we must help our employees. And I'm very glad that the suggestions that have been made have fallen out of it many times. But they also sounded historically, in order to loosen up the depositions of employers' employees, and for God's sakes to be linked to that particular cursarbeit. Because I remember the proposals that were being made here in connection with the various amendments and attempts to amend the Labour Code, where the employee would even have to pay off as if from slave labor, from servitude, from his ties to the employer. So if we want to follow other states in Europe, if we want to maintain social reconciliation, if we want to avoid the threat of an economic crisis that is pouring into our hands with the fading coronavirus crisis, then we will accept this compromise proposal for cursarbeit and time will simply show how much it will need to be corrected or there will not be a need. But time will tell, it will show some time of the following year. And that the government has the authority, I see that as very reasonable. This cannot be defined well enough by other indicators, because it rules by predictional data from different statistical offices, from the labour market, and after all it can also respond to the requirements of the tripartite itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u29	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, in fact, points out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u30	Hello. First of all, I would like to respond to my colleague Valachová, through you. For me, the argument that it's going to be in agreement with tripartite isn't valid. I would really imagine in this proposal more exact economic parameters, which would trigger the cursarbeit. I know how tripartite works today. When we look at, for example, a debate on wage increases, employers are almost never heard there, and this government only nods on the views of trade unions, employees' representatives. The Chamber of Commerce, the Association of Industry has different opinions, yet the government does what it wants. So for me, this argument that it will be in agreement with tripartite is not valid because you just don't take employers too seriously, and I'm not talking about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who aren't represented at all through these unions. A colleague of mine, Grospič, was talking about servitude. My colleague, look at how we have a protected labour market, or employees in the labour market. According to the OECD, the Czech Republic has one of the most protected labour markets, which, of course, limits natural changes in the economy and natural restructuring in the economy, making our economic development slower than in countries where the labour market is flexible. And to Secretary Maláčová, I would like to say that I read a lot, read a lot, and recommend that she listen better. [[unintelligible]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u31	Thank you. Real notes are going well. Madam Secretary, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u32	Mr. Ambassador, you haven't studied anything again. The Chamber of Commerce is not part of the tripartite, so please at least study the basics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u33	I didn't even have time to turn on the stopwatch. Mr Grospič, Mr Sklenák will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u34	I will also be short, thank you, Mr President, by your means. I do not know if Mr Skopeček, by your means, is pleased that we have such a tight and protected environment that protects employees. I think it's an adventure that's been born here for centuries, and it's a huge currency. If you want to go back to a state where the labour market will be completely relaxed, such as the United States of America or other so-called economies, maybe the Third World, then please, let it be your wishful wish, you like to fit into the role of economist, but it is certainly not the wish of the Left. But I do not think that it is in general the wish of anyone who wishes to develop the Czech Republic, stability, social peace, and, above all, the economic startup at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u35	Thank you. Mr Sklenák, factual point, then Mr Skopeček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u36	Thank you. I am glad that Mr Skopeček is still registered after me, because on this occasion I would like to ask him if he could shed some light on his idea of how he would have imagined running the courserbeit. Because, of course, we've been discussing this for a very long time and in detail, but the way I've talked about it here, because it's a tool to cover all sorts of situations that might occur - pandemics, floods, cyber attacks, fires, local, national and so on - that's a range of options that cursarbeit should respond to, that I can't imagine how we could embody some parameters into that law, under what conditions and how this tool will be launched. That is why it is essentially up to the government to communicate these parameters on the basis of a specific situation after consultation with the social partners. Really, I mean it in a matter of fact, try to tell your idea so we know what we're different about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u37	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u38	Thank you for the floor. Of course, I know that the Chamber of Commerce is not part of the tripartite. I wanted to point out that the government will give more to trade unions than to the Confederation of Industry and Trade and that it does not speak to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, whether organized in the Chamber of Commerce or in other unions, at all. That's for the secretary. As for my colleague Sklenák, I have no problem with the principle of cursarbeit, I agree with him. All I'm saying is it's wrong for cursarbeit to be triggered in a traditional cyclical crisis, in a traditional spike. I have no problem with it being triggered in the case of crises that the economy has not caused itself by its imbalances, nature disasters, pandemics and so on. We're not in conflict. I merely argue that I fear that any government, with the slightest increase in unemployment, will not trigger it in the slightest cyclical crisis and will not prevent the restructuring of the economy and the restructuring of jobs. I don't think we're so much in conflict here, or that it's nothing that's not incomprehensible on my part. And a colleague of Grospič. I understand that you miss the centrally planned economy, but it really didn't bring any paradise on earth, thanks to which we have really experienced incredible hardships. We're slowly going back to her, and I just want the other way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u39	A final point in fact for the moment, Mrs Pastuchová. I hope I didn't jinx it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u40	Very briefly, by your means, to Mr Skopeček. Ambassador, I've been to all five meetings. The meeting lasted two hours, and I can tell you, and if you want, I'm gonna send you e-mails that everyone who was there confirmed, and there were really tripartite representatives, and the Chamber of Commerce was represented there, so I don't think we'd go around saying she didn't agree with anything. And I'm a little sorry that when we had cursarbeit here and there was a contradiction between the amendments in the coalition of the government, when one of them was presented by Mr Sklenák and the other one was presented by me and my colleague Aulickaý Jírovcová, you were all there, so we can make peace, so we can finally make a deal. And now that we've really worked it out with everyone, with everyone, and everyone's really there, you're gonna start blaming us for not inviting anyone? Everyone was really there, and I'd be happy to send you the list with their consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u41	Thank you. It wasn't the last point of fact. Mr Grospič, Mr Skopeček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u42	I promise you, fellow Members, this is my final point of fact. I would like there to be a vote on this law because it is very necessary. Only, by your means, to Mr Skopečka: I absolutely do not miss the planned economy. Maybe that's why you showed up here and choked it inside of you and needed to ventilate it. I'd just like to remind you that it was your governments that cut off the labor code and all the social benefits, there were 52 of them. Only in 2026 (?) Work law has been stabilized and since then we have heard constant attempts from the right to re-cut and dehoneise it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u43	Mr Skopeček, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u44	To my colleague Grospič: Mr. Colleague, we have one of the most rigid laws of work. There are international studies, OECD, World Bank, just get to know it, we just have one of the least flexible labour markets, we have one of the most rigid labour codes. So what you're talking about here is some of your impressions and fantasies. Unfortunately, the reality is completely different, hinders the restructuring of the Czech economy and hinders changes in the labour market. And to my previous speaker: I wasn't even talking about you guys not talking about the law with the Chamber of Commerce or other business unions. All I'm saying is that during the launch, when the cursarbeit was launched, my colleague Valachová argued that it would be in agreement with the tripartite. When I think of what agreements with tripartite were like around raising minimum wages, trade unions have always been heard, employers' representatives have never been heard. That was my gros comment, not that you didn't talk to them during the negotiation of the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u45	Thank you. A real point, Mrs Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to follow up on my colleague Jan Skopeček and confirm that there really is a very rigid labour code here, and what the left here is telling us means: We defend those employees, so in practice it is quite different, because look at the correlation between what the labour codes look like and what the situation in the labour and employment market looks like. So it can be shown that if you say here: We want a very rigid labour code and rigid rules, it is proven that in countries where this is the case - and perhaps Spain is a very typical example - this leads to very poor labour market conditions and a high level of unemployment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u47	Thank you. I have here a factual comment by Mrs Valachová - she disappeared for a moment, and she is here. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u48	Well, yes, briefly. I'll take it. If this is about the rules of cursarbeit and the preservation of jobs in companies being left and the invention of the left, I'll take it. It's ours, we confess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u49	That was the last point in fact, and I will ask Mrs Richterová for a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u50	Hello, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues. I am here with the opinion of the pirát and here I am with such a motto: Yes, we want cursarbeit as in Germany. But what was presented is simply not like in Germany. I do not consider it completely standard to comment loudly from the benches here, but the important thing is that it has not yet been mentioned here, in which everything is just different from the German system and in what risks there are risks, that is one thing, and what it then puts the injustice and the unfounded difference, and that is a great thing, among the people who have had bad luck, their company has ended or have been released and are on unemployment support, and among those who, and we support it, will remain in a relationship with their employer - that is a valuable thing, but will be disproportionately favoured. And now the question is: Yesterday, other figures came out about the state budget, and we have to say if we really want to vote in favour of this proposal in this form. So once again, it's not like in Germany. It's a classic mixed sausage and I'll tell you why. This puts a huge injustice between unemployment aid rates, when people are looking for jobs, no longer have any ties to employers, and partial unemployment, which is the cursarbeit, where it is of course necessary to appreciate that the relationship with a particular employer remains preserved, but it is far from so clearly negotiated and well designed for us. The key amendment here is recorded under number 8091. It is Mrs Pastuchová's amendment, Mr Sklenák and Mrs Aulická. It has already been said how long it took for this government to come to this, I will not comment, it is simply the bare fact that we have May 2021, we have more than a year of pandemic. But what I want to comment on is: it will be a proposal for a long time, which is why I respect the negotiation. It will be a proposal that can be here for many and many decades, but at the same time it will be a proposal that exposes the government to great pressure from different groups - to run-not to launch - and throws entrepreneurs into uncertainty. There will not be a moment of predictability as it is in Germany. And one last introductory remark: that year, it turns out that the Antivirus, although it has some of its glitches, actually actually works. On Antivirus B, corporate involvement is at a certain level, keeping up business. So once again, knowing that we might wish to give as much support as possible, the state budget simply has its limits, and I want to point out again if this really is designed appropriately in the courserbeit. The basic parameters of the comprehensive amendment are that the aid is to be 80 per cent of the compensation paid where the employer pays at least 80 per cent of the compensation. So the difference from Antivirus B, which already works around the year, is an increase of 20 percent of the support of 60 percent as in Antivirus. Then it remains in the basic setting of what the unions fear, because it is the employer's contribution and not the support for the unemployed, so there is a risk that it will not be recognised by the European Union. [[10.00 hours]] And otherwise, I confirm what was said here. Many different procedural problems have been removed, indeed the long time of discussion has brought some improvements. But the key thing remains, the previous speakers have already talked about it in those factual notes, the fact that it turns on the government for six months with the possibility of extending by two or three months, but without predictable rules. Yes, it has to be discussed in some way, but there's no clear trigger. So, in giving the benefit of the administrative process that there's no longer a fixed date, the money comes within eight days of receiving the employer's statement and so on, so we see it as an improvement on the technical side of the proposal. But we ask how the government is justified by the fact that in Germany, cursarbeit operates on the principle of comparability with unemployment support. So I'm going back to the basic idea -- yes, we want cursarbeit as in Germany. I won't be too long, but it's a really important law, and it's tens and tens of billions of crowns. So I would like to emphasise: in Germany, cursarbeit as unemployment aid is at the rate of either 60 per cent of the average earnings, or 67 per cent if the beneficiary feeds the dependent child. Again, we have the opportunity in the Czech Republic to be on the support at 65 percent, but the ceiling is about CZK 20,000, after two months it falls and still a number of people are not even entitled to this amount of support. I may get to that later in the debate, but what I want to stress is that German cursarbeit is comparable, quite comparable to unemployment support, because otherwise there are great risks. While here the proposal submitted for Czech sausage is now completely opening scissors of conditions for employees who were unlucky, their company may have failed or been released, and for those who are lucky, their employer is in the program cursarbeit. When I stress this, one more thing is absolutely crucial in Germany, and these are really the predictable conditions for starting a cursarbeit for a firm in difficulty that the firm can count on. This is another hugely important thing that increases the security of the business environment. And on the other hand: if I sum up, unemployment is gradually falling from 65 percent, which is far from all of them, to 45 percent. On the contrary, the cursarbeit, as proposed, guarantees the 80 percent throughout the time. The unemployment benefit lasts five months with us, longer aid only applies to people over 50 years of age, and this is still 45 percent of the aid. And then - and this is once again a very important moment - the maximum amount of support, when one is unemployed, is 58 percent of the average wage, which is roughly CZK 20,000. And again, for the cursarbeit, it's designed in a completely different way - at 150 percent of the average wage. And I'm going to stress one more point. During the cursarbeit, as proposed for the Czech Republic, a partially unemployed person can earn extra money without losing entitlement to unemployment benefits, but this partial income is not possible when you are on unemployment support at the employment office. So there are huge differences, from the rate of financial support to the degree of what you can, to the duration. And what I mean to say in general - that the German road tuned for decades and decades has stuck to the fact that people who have lost their jobs for all sorts of reasons have to have similar, really very comparable support in the unemployment situation as people whose company is so, but it seems that it could overcome it, and then in a clear way they will be entitled to the support. I would now move on to the fact that at least part of these reservations can be corrected by the adoption of the three amendments that we are proposing for the pirát. It is Amendment J3, which deals with the first two months of cursarbeit, leaves them at the maximum level as proposed, and then proposes to gradually reduce it as is the case with unemployment aid to one-time gross wage. [[Rush in the hall.]] This proposal is submitted to various versions of the comprehensive amendments, and it is also under the letter J4 to the vote. And then we made a proposal to settle the conditions of the people who are on the unemployment benefit, so that we could get there about 10 years ago before Minister Drábek, because now it's very difficult when he and his employer...
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u51	I understand. Good morning, honourable Members. I think that anyone who wants to use his right to speak on this matter can do so by applying for a debate. Now Mrs Richterová has the floor. Others who are discussing other topics, please move this discussion to the lobby and let colleague Richterová finish her performance. [[The noise in the hall continues.]] Just wait a little longer. Take your seats, and if you want to discuss something else, please outside the O.R. Out of the O.R., please! [[In an elevated voice.]] A serious colleague, so I don't have to name anyone. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u52	Thank you. Once again: the settlement of the conditions for unemployed people is possible through an amendment, which will then be in the vote under J2 and is now returning the possibility that even if the employee agrees with the employer and loosens up the employment relationship in a way that does not always give rise to 65% of the support today, so that it can be done in the future. We would really like to see a different treatment where employment was tied up because of a gross violation of labour discipline, but otherwise the first two months we propose that we really return to practice so that everyone is entitled to pay the allowance by the same mandatory levy so that they are entitled to 65% unemployment benefit. Let me recap. In Germany you are predictable for companies, you have balanced conditions for people who support unemployment and cursarbeit, and in Germany you also have even conditions for earnings. The gamble that it's not possible to make extra money at the employment office while in the cursarbeit it's designed to be possible is just surprising for me. It is also surprising that it is not taken into account that the mandatory contribution, which is the employment policy for employees in the Czech Republic, is not discussed, that it means, for example, 20 billion crowns in 2020, which do not return to employment policy. So one more time. We have a premium of 1.2% of our assessment base as part of social insurance for employment policy. This accounted for almost CZK 20 billion last year, but some CZK 12 billion was returned to the so-called active employment policy and passive employment policy to support unemployment. I don't count the Antivirus. That's not what I'm counting on. But the standard is that more state budget will be collected on this mandatory levy before it returns on the actually well-deserved support that people had previously prepaid at the time of their employment. That's why we're submitting a proposal under the letter J2, it's 7238. [[10.10 hours]] And once again, I appeal to consider, at least at this point, to at least zoom in on a piece of Czech unemployment support for those whose employer is not on cursarbeit, to a German system where there are equal conditions and when these two situations, where the company is either in trouble or has completely ended or has had to be dismissed, are treated similarly. This is the decades-tested journey that works, and I don't understand why the scissors are so open with us, and why there are a number of objections that some previous speakers have just given. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u53	Thank you, Mrs Olza Richterová, for her performance. We now have before us the presentation of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová and a colleague of Černohorský will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought that in the third reading of the amendment to the Employment Act, we would all be happy to have reached the fundamental amendment tabled after a year's discussion. Some of the previous speakers have already said that in front of me. But we got into a debate that I think maybe it wasn't related to this proposal, but maybe it had a little bit to do with the other law that awaits us, and it's just a little bit more about time to get it over with. Anyway, I am very sorry that this is taking place on this bill that I think is really being discussed. And, as I stand here, I stand by the complex proposal that was then put forward, so I stand by it, because the work - and above all I have to thank my colleague Pastuchová, my colleague Sklenák and, of course, also Minister Maláčová and others - has really been done so that all the comments made by trade unions, employers, the Chamber of Commerce to really work together or to accommodate what preceded these proposals, or, on the contrary, the discussion has started in a way that should not be done and why it should come up with another parameter. I am very sorry, and I would like to say that this law simply does not deserve it. The adoption of cursarbeit caused the crisis itself, the pandemic itself, or at all to begin writing. Cursarbeit - my colleagues may have been here for a long time - has been mentioned for several years, but there has never been a political will to submit to the Chamber of Deputies. Unfortunately, the pandemic came up with the fact that it is really necessary to have a proposal or a legislative anchor in the Czech Republic. We are pleased because it is a matter that should generally help not only the economy but, above all, citizens, whether they are entrepreneurs or only employed in the Czech Republic, especially in the future. You talk a lot about Antivir. But this cursarbeit or this last proposal, which is, nor was written to help at this time, in this pandemic. Because what's the worst thing we could do to change the aid system - and we can have any reservations we want within, like Antivirus, or other bonuses from other ministries' programs - but actually insert or start working on cursarbeit, whether it is done in this sense, at this time, would be one of the worst decisions we could make. That is why I think that this legislation and this amendment are really aid for the future, in any form whatsoever, but it is simply aid for the future. Of course, we will all believe that help from this legislation will not be needed, but on the other hand, we are all aware of reality, and this anchoring is really important. I would perhaps still like to respond, by your means, Mr President, to Mrs Richterová, for talking about the comparison of the Kursarbeit with Germany. Madam Secretary might say it here, or he'll comment on it. Anyway, at the beginning there were definitely debates about whether to take a model from Germany, whether to go this way, but more or less after expert discussion, after going in depth - I will not even talk about it being originally proposed in a legislative emergency and so on - so it really came to this or it was assessed that the form of German cursarbeit, whether you like it or not, is not possible in the Czech Republic and at this time. It is based on an insurance system, which means that employers make long-term contributions to possible drawbacks, and then they contribute. And it has also been said by Mrs Richterová that this is a long-term system of decades, where it really improves. We are at the beginning and I believe that whatever the government will be, in the future this proposal, which will probably pass today, I believe, of course, that it will continue to improve for the benefit of the economy and citizens of the Czech Republic. But on the other hand, I don't think we can have that German form at the moment, now that we're having fun. I would also like to have wages like in Germany for our citizens, so I guess we can also dream about that now. But we would also like to have a minimum wage, such as in Germany, at least for the KSČM. But I think we're gonna crash the economy right now. I guess that's it for us now. Maybe just a little point. The employer's contribution or not at all, as you mentioned it, I wouldn't dispute it, because on the contrary, I think we're building on what's really good. We can talk about certain parameters that you may have talked about and that are not completely wrong, but I think these are the parameters that should then gradually start to improve and which could come in further development, because none of us, as we sit here, surely does not think that this is the final form that will not improve with practice. I am very glad that both trade unions and employers or employers' representatives really put their thumbs on it, even though the discussion was not easy. On the other hand, it has never happened that anyone felt very wronged or that their demands or arguments were not met, and on the contrary, the discussion has always been very factual with all the experts we now have in this legislation. So for us, I just want to thank you for the job, and I'm really glad that we as a KSČM can put the thumb up on this form, which was then in the final form. And maybe I'd just ask a little bit, maybe it doesn't belong here, but on the other hand, it seems completely pointless to me when some colleagues give themselves the opportunity to speak last in the performance when someone comes forward after them. [[Mrs Richter is rejoined on the board for the debate.]] I don't think we should introduce these things here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u55	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. We have here a factual comment by Mrs Richterová and two priority rights by President Pekarová and Minister Maláčová. Now, therefore, Mrs Olga Richterová's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u56	I would just like to respond really to what has been said by Mrs Aulická, and that she also wishes to bring it closer to Germany, but that is not possible now. I was pretty struck by it, because the really key thing for Germany is that it's very similar to the level of unemployment support, and that's why they're very concerned that there are very similar conditions for people where it happened... [[Madam Secretary's response.]] Okay, Madam Secretary disagrees, he'll explain on the microphone. The key thing I'm saying is cursarbeit in Germany is 60 percent or 67 percent when you have children. On this point I want to show that it is cheaper than the way it is proposed in the Czech Republic and therefore it can be more predictable. Therefore, companies need not be so worried that nobody in the Czech Republic has turned it on, that it would not be started, because it is simply designed too high. [[10.20 hours]] I really think I'm the last person to criticize the support to maintain relationships between employers and employees. On the contrary, it is necessary, but it should be at a level comparable to that of other people in similar situations. And then the European Union didn't really deal with it. The law proposes that the employer pays employees a wage of at least 80 per cent, and now the wage compensation is simply paid by the employer, so it is support to companies and it can be evaluated by the European Commission as unjustified support. It is simply not compatible with the competitive free market in the European Union, therefore it should be transferred to the principle of unemployment support for people, not paid through companies, then it would be O.K. This is simply the main moment for which I stand here, and I think that precisely for how it is proposed, this will encourage the European Commission to react.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u57	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the priority right of Mrs Pekarová's Member and President Adamová. Minister Jana Maláčová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u58	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Madam Secretary, I apologise, ladies and gentlemen, to this proposal, and to a great deal of praise, as I have noted in previous contributions. But I dare to put us back on the ground, because it's exactly a year since this bill started to come into existence at the Ministry. At the time, the Minister promised how quickly it would be, how quickly it would be needed to respond to the pandemic situation and the crisis that he is causing to companies, and so we have an annual annabasis, which, when we take it one month after another, often reminded a really incredible gown of changes and debates that did not practically lead to the outcome. But finally, we're going to vote final. And when you're bragging about the support of tripartite, but maybe the Chamber of Commerce and others, and you're saying that it's unique that they've agreed this way: I just think, and I wouldn't overestimate that they've just lost a little patience after all the different complex changes proposed, and they said - better something than trying for a version that's really good. But I don't want to do anything to anyone, and of course we're talking to them, and we realize that they want the whole proposal to work in practice, it's crucial to them, and that they're actually very unhappy that they still have to extend the Antivirus and we still don't have the cursarbeit. Anyway, in the proposal that is presented here, I - although of course we will support this comprehensive amendment, because it is definitely better than the government contribution itself - lacks a number of details that we should really do in the future, and I agree with the previous speaker that it is necessary to continuously improve this law in the light of the very response from practice, and I believe that this will take place in the coming years. One of the key things I consider important in cursarbeit is that if an employee can no longer work, he should at least use time for education. It's useful to him himself. Increasing qualifications is always a great advantage in the labour market for further application, but of course it is important for both employers and the whole economy and society. The way in which this is conceived in the amendment, which I suppose here will probably be supported by the vast majority of the parties, is inadequate, but it is at least some start, some deposit in order to improve precisely this area gradually in the whole thing. Because if someone can take at least part of the salary, but they don't have to go to work to the fullest, then the time it creates is appropriate to use it precisely to increase their qualifications to give our economy overall added value - so it certainly depends on educated people, because human capital is simply the basis. So that's a thing I definitely consider one of those that hasn't spoken yet, but it should definitely be our goal. If this has been said - and so have ČSSD colleagues, so the left-wing parties, and I am glad that we are in agreement on this - about the transformation of the economy that is so much needed, I completely agree with that. It's a matter that's been discussed here for many years. Exactly in the crisis that we are experiencing, I see the opportunity, the opportunity to move on to sectors that have higher added value, so that we are not just subcontractors to economies that have higher added value, but that we create it, too, and that our employers and employees can benefit from it, because, of course, it will manifest itself to them at the level of wages, and it will show us all how healthy and prosperous the Czech economy will be. And since the transformation of the economy is something that must also be supported by laws, I agree precisely here that our rigid labour market, or labour law, which is not really flexible - and who thinks it is, simply refuses to see it - can be supported by one amendment that I am proposing. It's a thing that I know has certain passions, but let's look at it quite factually and completely from the point of view of those concerned, namely employers themselves, and employees themselves. If you support the amendment that I propose, it is under I, so that there is the possibility that employees who no longer have an employment in a given company with a given employer should be provided with a higher severance grant than they are legally entitled to today. The employer wasn't losing it, because if he had to pay two months, two months' wages today, there would only have to be one and the other two months left, so the state would have paid for the employees one more month. This would be advantageous for the state, because - even if it is of course some cost, some expenditure from the state - this person would have the opportunity to find jobs in sectors that may be more prosperous, he would have the chance to re-qualify very quickly to move from those that may be dying to those that, on the contrary, need workers now. And they're still like that, of course. And we also see that every crisis has not only its defeated but also its winners. And so is it at present, and I don't have to remind you here that if we were forced, or the government was forced in part, it partly caused itself, shut down large parts of the economy, even sectors, some of them for months, then, of course, other sectors had the opportunity and took it up and grew. I don't have to mention that it's e-commerce, but there are other areas that are dynamically developing, and there are people in need. And they're blocked by the fact that we're actually leaving them at home or at home, and they're actually waiting to see if, when their sector finally starts up again, their employers will be able to successfully start up again, and they can continue to operate in the company they've worked at, or they've actually just been waiting to get a statement anyway. So this system, which - I understand that these critics like to say that without giving a reason to quit, but it can actually be arranged today, what we're going to do to each other - has mainly this benefit for both parties, both for an employee who gets a job of two or three months' salary or salary, and for an employer, because he doesn't often have cash flow to do, even if he wants to release the person, give him a severance payment at the legal level, and at that point he's in a stalemate situation where he actually keeps an employee that he may not even need anymore, and he just can't look for a new job. I think that if you look at this without emotion and without political or ideological burdens, then you have to admit that this is exactly how we can move these people into a prosperous sector of the economy, how we can offer them the opportunity of a very dignified and without any loss and damage to move to an area in which they will again find application for many years to come. This is the way to get to the desired transformation of the economy you're talking about. [[10.30 hours]] If we really want to do this, then we have an opportunity. It is a simple amendment to the Labour Code, and I have purposely laid it down in this proposal for a fixed period so that it really responds to the current crisis, so that it is not just a question for an indefinite period of time. I think that, in this regard, we could move back to those Western economies that simply have a more flexible labour market, and many of them should set an example for us. That is why I am asking you to support this amendment, and I firmly believe that, in combination with the cursarbeit that has been going on for these months, and I firmly believe that it will be approved today, so we can help our economy, the people who are employed in it, and those who employ others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u59	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, for the performance. Now, with Mrs GajdůGajdůšková's factual remark, Minister Maláčová will speak with priority. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u60	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable House, I did not really want to speak because I am not feeling very well, but I really must respond to the previous speaker, through Mr President. We move people into prosperous sectors of the economy by paying them well in those sectors, not by throwing them out without giving a reason and for almost an hour. That's just not the way. And I am glad that the cursarbeit is set at this point in time so that there is an amendment that supports education, including the possibility of education for people at a time when they are at home within that cursarbeit, and that is the promotion of education, that is, a shift to prosperous sectors of the economy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u61	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Minister Jana Maláčová will now speak with priority, and Lukáš Černohorský will prepare himself. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u62	Thank you, Mr President. I hope I will not even comment on Mrs Pekarová's amendment to Adamová. The Member here says: Let's look without emotion at it so that we can throw people on the pavement for no reason. Well, I wish I could experience it if it were approved, so what would it mean, and give good advice to people so they don't take it emotionally. And to make such an amendment in a law aimed at saving people's jobs! There's no need to comment. I've been asked questions about effectiveness. Effectiveness is planned if we approve the amendment, the first day of the following month. This means, if the Senate is scheduled to negotiate on 9 June, we expect efficiency from 1. 7. As far as retraining is concerned, I am actually reminding you, look at the comprehensive amendment that it is envisaged in this bill. Those people who will be at an obstacle, then, in agreement with the Bureau of Labour, they will use that time to increase their qualifications. Believe that we have spent the last few months working very hard to do this so that - if needed in the future - it could work this well. Requalification will be a huge topic without cursarbeit, and we have actually done a great deal of work in the last few months. As far as Mrs Richterová's comments are concerned, I will not go into detail, I do not want to delay, but three basic things. Why can't we do this in Germany? Please note that Germany has a completely different code of work. We, if we wanted a rapid anti-crisis law, cannot overstep the economic model of the Czech Republic and we cannot override the entire labour code. Please note that Germany does not have a wage compensation system or barriers to work, and therefore it has a cursarbeit built as it is. That is the fundamental difference, Madame. This needs to be taken into account and not merely comparing two countries side by side. The second problem, why we didn't do this, is simply that employers subscribe to a special fund, take money for it, and I can't imagine raising social security for employers at this time. That would really be liquidation, and I think that would be wrong. That's why we didn't come this way. As regards the third point: yes, the amount of aid in Germany is 60 to 67 per cent, the 7 per cent is for families with children, but it is also necessary to say B, and this was not mentioned by the Member. It is currently increased to between 70 and 77 percent and after seven months, which is the example of cursarbeit, so it is 80 and 87 percent in Germany, so it is exactly the amount that we propose. The 7 percent are in families with children. And the last difference, Madame, between the German Kursarbeit and the Czech one, the fourth one, is that the moment you enter the Kursarbeit in Germany, you are a candidate for employment at the employment offices, at the German Labour Offices. The moment you receive a contribution from the Kursarbeit, you are at the disposal of the German Labour Office and it can convey you elsewhere. That's why there's this parallel with unemployment support. But we didn't want to go this way, because we're just trying to maintain those employment and employment relationships. So please, it sounds good, we want cursarbeit as in Germany, but now I've told you four specific reasons why it doesn't fit the Czech system and why we would have to dig up the entire economic model, the labour code and make life even more difficult for employers, companies. So that's why we decided to go this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u63	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jana Maláčová. With Mrs Pekarová's factual remark, and a colleague of Černohorský is ready. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u64	I would like to make two comments on the Minister, as I was talking about retraining. Yes, I'm aware, and I said it if she listened to me... so I'll wait for her to really listen to me... so she'll know that I said it's a stepping stone and that I think it should be the exact requalification in the law then even later with the practice changed so that it would be much more effective. I don't have much confidence in the fact that the retraining courses of the employment authorities are always the best of quality, with all due respect for them. I think there's also a lot of room for improvement. And as for the shortcut that we want to throw people out on the pavement, it's kind of like the foul Madam Secretary. I'm going to ask you honestly, what do you think is better? Why wait at home when you can't go into your job, so that eventually, when the company can get back to business, it lets you go because you're just as redundant because it doesn't have, like, those orders up until now, or get three severance payments in three months that you normally shouldn't, and then have the opportunity to find a new job with this pillow? Is that pavement? I'm not saying these people end up unemployed. I say that these people will have the opportunity to look elsewhere for work, where employees are recruited, and this is what happens. But I understand that for someone who worked all the time just for the state and was paid by him, it can be hard to understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Lukáš Černohorský, my colleague Richterová will be ready. [[The gesticulation of a Member of Montenegro.]] I've challenged you before, which is why I've included the application, although it's electronic, for you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u66	Thank you for the floor. I suppose, through Mr President, the information about the last one was probably on me. I was merely telling the President that I was not registered with priority rights, so Mrs Pekarová had priority. I just wanted to comment on my amendment, and that was Amendment d I listened bedlivě to the social committee's record and was not completely discussed there, so I just wanted to take it apart a little bit better, because we are currently discussing issues that can be encountered by businesses that are in some way in difficulty. The Supreme Audit Office recently published its control conclusion number 1912, under which it discussed compulsory insurance of the organisation's liability for damage to work accidents, and informed the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance that we have several problems with the Labour Code. One of them, and this is quite a big problem, is that there is, in fact, no organisation or state institution at the moment, which should be authorized to check whether and how statutory insurance of the employer's liability is chosen. I will just point out that, for example, in 2015 to 2018, almost CZK 30 billion were selected for this insurance, and no one is legally authorized to control these funds at the moment. [[10.40 hours]] Therefore, part of the amendment is that the Ministry of Finance would be entitled in this case to control the management of these funds. This mistake was made sometime in 2006, when there was a change in the law under which the Ministry of Finance... he left the opportunity to control the commercial insurance companies, but it was transferred to the Czech National Bank. But the control of the Czech National Bank is not actually focused on this type of insurance. That is why, after consulting the Ministry of Finance, I have prepared and implemented in this amendment that the Ministry of Finance will carry out checks on the economic results of this insurance for insurance companies operating statutory insurance of the employer's liability for damage to work accidents or occupational diseases. As I said, it is about 30 billion crowns over three years, which would be completely out of control. Another problem that is being treated by this amendment is the inadequate amount of periodic penalty payments, which remained within the framework of the 1993 Decree. Here it was... originally issued by the Ministry of Finance, but after the amendment of the Labour Code, it became that The Ministry of Finance is no longer actually a gesture of this law, but it is an MPSV, and at this time the Ministry of Finance cannot regulate anything within this decree. Therefore, it is part of the bill's proposal that, at the moment, if the employer does not pay for some reason, his penalty is 10 per cent per month of the amount due. In this case, I suggest we settle this amount of penalty, which may be liquidation for the company. And if we are really acting at the moment that the employer can be affected, either by floods or by any other disaster, then it can really happen that he will not be able to pay for these funds, and in this case it could be liquidation for him. The compensation should actually be... or the amount of the penalty would actually be equal to the amount applicable to the law, or under the social security insurance scheme under Law No. 589/1992. And another matter that is being treated there is - and this also partly reproaches the Supreme Audit Office - that we are moving essentially as if a dangerous area within which a penalty would be forgiven, whether in part or in full. Part of it was treated originally by this decree. In this case, however, it turns out that it is significantly easier for there to be some legal certainty, it is to convert it into law, in this case part of the decree, the text under the long-term practice that is going on, put into the proposal or the Labour Code, with the fact that, after that, this is just like a quick hotfix, which should ensure that there will be no liquidation penalty for individual companies. But in this case, it would be ideal for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour to agree, after all these years, on some reform of legal insurance of the employer's liability, because it was originally assumed in the past that these matters would be removed around the course of several years when the amendment to the Labour Code was submitted, which we know did not happen. The Ministry of Finance has already tabled this type of amendment in the past, despite the fact that this amendment has often been uploaded into the system, the Chamber of Deputies has never actually made it to the finals when discussing the individual laws and most of the bills have ended together with the Chamber of Deputies. Now, if I could just take a second, I'd switch to priority rights. [[Calls on the President.]] I would just like to inform you that before the vote I would like to ask - after closing the debate before the vote I would ask for a 45-minute break, I will inform you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u67	So before the vote, or after the end of the debate, at third reading. Okay, I understand. Now, Mrs Alena Gajdůškovášková will speak with a point of fact and Mrs Richterová will be signed up for the second time. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u68	Thank you again for the floor. I am very sorry to have to respond again to Mrs Pekarová Adamová, through Mr President. I insist that your amendment be fired for no reason. And I said it. And I have to say, I've been working for a while as head of the personnel department of the construction company, so, no, we don't know anything but the public administration. First of all. And secondly, your proposal really is a huge breach of the principle that is still in the Workers' Protection Code. That's two. And thirdly, I don't understand why the state should pay for corporate personnel policy. This is a business matter between an employee and an employer. There's no reason why the state should pay severance payments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. There is another factual point by Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u70	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, to Mrs GajdůGajdůšková, this was not up to you, it was up to the Minister who spoke here about the people ending up on the floor. I'm just saying again, even the cursarbeit is that the state pays companies something. So in this case, the state is actually entering into this private relationship, going beyond what is actually in the normal market economy. And all of a sudden, it's okay with your proposal, or it's okay with the Kursarbeit proposal, but the proposal that helps flexibility, the transformation of the economy that your colleague mentioned earlier, you won't admit it. I believe quite clearly that it is better for employees to have the job than when they are at home. I guess we can agree on that. Well, if we want him to find the job quickly, if he doesn't have a perspective in the industry he's been working in so far, because that's just the way it is. We're not going back to what was here in 2019 and before this crisis, let's face it. Some sectors just don't get over it, and vice versa, others have been on the rise for a long time, and now they have even bigger opportunities, precisely because of the crisis. That's the way it is, that's the way it is. And in this case, it's all about who's interested, but he's actually tied to his employer, so he's also got a chance with a good starting pillow to find a job in another, perspective industry faster. So let's not separate it, it's not just A, it's a quicker statement, but it's also B that's important to remember which is advantageous for the employee, and then it's also for the employer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u71	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Olga Richterová with her second application. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u72	Thank you for the floor. There is still a fundamental lack of understanding of the principle of the reservations that I am speaking here. Of course I know that Germany has increased 10 percent of the aid at the time of the covid, but what is being approved here, what is being proposed, is not a quick anti-crisis law. It's just something that's gonna be here for decades. And that's why I'm pointing out that there are two systems in place for two types of people, essentially unemployed. Yeah, let's face it. Kurzarbeit is a way of not letting people get fired, so the threat of unemployment is there, it's some kind of... it's a state intervention. This is a significant intervention in the labour market, and it is therefore important to realise what it will do when it is so fundamentally different when it goes away from unemployment support. And it seems to me that there may be little knowledge here about how important it is for the entire labour market, how the unemployment support is set up. And again: the cursarbeit is nothing but sophisticated, on the specific conditions of some decline-responsive unemployment support, which works well in Germany because it is predictable. [[10.50 hours]] With regard to overall unemployment aid, why I tried to emphasise and explain the reasons for the increase in the first two months for the period before Minister Drábek, so that it would really be 65 percent for all unemployment aid for the first two months: because it makes sense from the whole economy. The point is that people have adequate material security, just enough money, and some reasonable certainty when they are looking for jobs when they are negotiating for a new job position, when they are looking for it to match their qualifications and direction to the future. And why is it important not only for individual happiness but also for the whole? Because then, only if they have more reasonable certainty, can they negotiate better positions and better wages for the future, and then they grow, apparently, according to the very interesting knowledge of economists, contributions to the state budget. I'm gonna say it a little bit more because it's really unintuitive. It's something you wouldn't just think of, but it makes complete sense if we figured it out. When the conditions for unemployed people, especially at the beginning, are improved - we therefore propose to increase the compromise to 65 per cent, at least for those who have terminated employment, even by agreement, to support the agreements between employees and employers - because this is what leads to the negotiation of future jobs for better wages and to future higher contributions that will receive public income tax budgets from natural persons. I will just point out: every one percentage point of growth in personal income tax means about CZK 10 billion for the state budget. It's just not funny, it's a big deal. That is why the conditions for unemployed people are so important and, on the contrary, it is important not to disconnect it from another system of support for partial unemployment, that is what it is also called, and thus cursarbeite. And at Kursarbeit, no one was talking to the representatives of the growing companies, the start-ups, the people looking for people. There's just this aspect of this state intervention, this state intervention, it's just going to be too conservational. I will stress once again: we are in favour of introducing cursarbeit, but the conditions, as set out, are really very different from how standard unemployment support works and therefore threatens to preserve the current state of the economy. But that's not the economy that's gonna get us into the future. We're still in a state of assembly, unfortunately, and we want to get into the state of the brain. But this transition to higher value added economy simply needs state support for education, for retraining, but really the highest quality, as much as possible linked to specific companies and operations, but does not need to introduce two different systems for one thing. And the one thing is that the company is in trouble and we want to encourage people to somehow either survive that time in conjunction with the company or, therefore, quit their jobs and find a new job and have reasonable conditions for doing so. We can simply get to this goal in a slightly different way, a way that will take into account that this state can simply cause an artificial labour shortage, that labour market intervention will be too big and that it can be very disadvantageous in terms of the whole of the finals. Then the absence of triggering criteria will expose the government to pressure from different groups, it will be very difficult to resist those pressures, so that, in turn, is why the foreseeable triggering criteria are in Germany. And one last thing. The point is that taxpayers in this country are supposed to have equal treatment, and those equal conditions also mean believing that the state is acting fairly. And I don't know how to justify to people whose company is going to fail or are being released that they have significantly worse conditions than those whose company is - and now, please, we're not talking about the covid, but we're talking about a law that will be in the future and in the future, if it's not a state intervention for public health reasons, but some other reason - it's not justified why people in trouble should be entitled to about 90 percent of the net wage, just in the sense that it's a huge difference to the unemployment benefit. And this lack of justification for the imbalance, the lack of justification for the length of the aid and how it will translate into the whole economy, into the whole labour market, where there are sectors that are growing, scares me, and I think that's why we should have looked more at Germany and less at what to do differently in order to introduce another system here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u73	Thank you, Mrs Richterová, and there is a factual remark from Roman Sklenák, then with the Prime Minister's priority right. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I have a very brief and really factual point. Maybe we shouldn't keep comparing the draft here with the German Kursarbeit, and for those who don't like to call it this draft and this instrument of government by the German word, so I want to point out that basically one of the points of this complex amendment is basically a naming. We tried, and there was a long discussion about it, as much as possible to capture the instrument, and it is basically called a contribution at the time of partial work. This means, if you want to talk about this tool differently than the cursarbeit, it is a contribution at the time of partial work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u75	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact and I have no further application for the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Do I ask the final words? Madam Secretary? Then I'll announce the break, as the pirát announced. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u76	Very briefly, Mr Černohorský's amendment. I would like to point out that this is an amendment to the decree, which is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Finance and does not, in substance, fall within the Gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That's why it's nonsense to modify it in the labor code. There's no way this kind of adjustment belongs there. The Labour Code regulates relations between employees and employers, it is really important to keep in mind, whereas your amendment addresses the relationship of the employee insurance company, a completely different substantive jurisdiction. It is a non-systemic amendment; it is an adhesive that is not related to the cursarbeit. Moreover, it concerns the management of insurance companies and it has not been discussed with them. I understand why you're presenting it, but the implementation is so wrong. That is why I will give a disagreeable opinion. Otherwise, as far as all the arguments that have been made here are concerned, I have spoken to them before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u77	Thank you. The rapporteur, if she's interested in the final word? He doesn't. With priority rights Lukáš Černohorský as vice-chairman of the club. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u78	Thank you for the floor. He is precisely the problem that there is no change at this time, because in the past, we have taken the Ministry of Finance as a gesturer of the insurance, and we have discussed and discussed it, and it is the only option right now if we do not make some amendment to the Labour Code, which will change the way it is chosen, either that it will be purely commercial, or that it will be part of a social benefit in other countries. At this point, the Treasury can't change the decree because they're no longer entitled to it, and the MPSV can't change it either. At this point, we are unable to do this in any other way than change within the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u79	Thank you and I remind you that you asked for 40 minutes - 45, sorry, 45 minutes recess for the Pirates Club meeting. So, at 11.44, we'll meet here and start with the rapporteur's speech, which will lead us through the vote. I'm declaring a break until 11.44 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, the break is over. So we'll continue with the agenda. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Quiet in the courtroom, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u81	Thank you for the floor. I will therefore introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Social Policy Committee at its 76th meeting. Among other things, he approved the following voting procedure. First of all, we would vote on the proposals under Section 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, presented at third reading. Furthermore, we would vote in the following order: Amendment B, followed by G1, G2. If not accepted, G10, G3, G4, G5, G6, G7, G8, G9. In addition, Amendment C, as amended where appropriate, adopted by G1 to G10. If adopted, the non-voting proposals A1 to A6, F, H2, I2 to I5, J1, which are identical to F1 and I2, J2 and J4 are identical to F3 and I3. If they are not adopted, we will continue to vote on Amendment A1, followed by A2. If accepted, it shall be unvoting A3, I5 and H2 point 2. Again, I5 and H2 point 2 are identical. If not adopted, we shall vote I5, H2 point 2, identical. If accepted, it shall be unvoting A3. If not adopted, we will vote on Amendment A3, hereinafter A4, A5, A6, F4, F3, I3 and J4, which are identical. The next vote is F1, I2 and J1, which are identical. Further F2 and I4, again identical. Furthermore, Amendment J2 and H2 point 1. Furthermore, we would vote in Amendment D, E, I1, J3. Amendment H1 is unvoteable - it amends the amendment of Mr Sklenák SD 6997, which has not been tabled in a detailed debate of repeated second reading. Finally, we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u82	I think we all understand the proposed procedure, so we're going to vote on whether we approve it. Initiating vote. Who's in favour of the proposed procedure? Who's against it? Voting number 329, 104 Members registered, for 98, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u83	Firstly, we would vote on the legislative technical regulation that was loaded at the third reading. Let me just remind you that this is the unification of terminology in the amendment referred to in the Houses of the Press as the G5 when the words "aid at the time of partial employment" are replaced by the words "allowance at the time of partial labour" and the word "aid" by the word "allowance."
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u84	I am just going to report that Mr Holomčík and Mr Černohorský voted with a replacement card number 10. Was that a check-out request? Yes, a request for withdrawal from the Pirát. I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. I'll sing again, even though I've already gonged. Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 330, 101 Members registered, for 101, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u85	We will also vote on Amendment B of Mr Novák. This is a simplification of the process of granting unemployment aid. Opinion of the Social Committee recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u86	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 331, 102 Members registered, for 102, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u87	We are now voting on the amendment under the letter G1 of Mr Juříček. Let me just remind you that this is the time of the employer's contribution, of the reduction to three, possibly six months. Opinion of the Social Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u88	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 332, 102 Members registered, for 23, against 34. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u89	We are now voting on Amendment G2. Again, Mr Juříček - compensation for wages by employees, where he replaces 80 per cent of the average earnings of 65 per cent of the average hourly gross earnings. Opinion of the Social Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u90	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 333, registered by 102 Members, for 25, against 24. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u91	Since the previous two amendments have not been adopted, we are voting the G10 again, Mr Juříček, replacing 80 per cent of the average earnings of 70 per cent of the average hourly gross earnings. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u92	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 334, 102 Members signed in, for 24, against 23. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u93	Another proposal by G3, again by Mr Juříček, reducing the upper limit when not assigning employment to employees from 80 per cent to 40 per cent of the week's working time. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u94	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 335 - 102 Members signed in, for 12, against 23. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u95	Mr Juříček's amendment follows again. This is a supplement: If the reason for the contribution is a decrease in sales, the substantiated statement requires that this decrease in sales is at least 20 per cent compared to the same quarter of last year. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u96	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 336, registered by 102 Members, for 15, against 26. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u97	Furthermore, G5, Mr Juříček, supplementing the conditions and the employer's obligation to contribute at the time of partial employment. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u98	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 337, 102 Members registered, for 14, against 30. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u99	The following is Amendment G6, once again, by Mr Juříček, which complements Section 83, the determination of the length of the shift for a period when the economy of the state is seriously threatened. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u100	The Minister's position. [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 338, registered 102 Members, for no one, against 67. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u101	G7, Mr Juříček, complements § 84, the deadline for submitting a written schedule of weekly working hours for the period defined by the Government Decree pursuant to § 120b. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u102	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 339, 102 Members registered, for no one, against 29. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u103	G8, Mr Juříček, sets the upper limit for the overall length of the shift in the period defined by the Government Decree. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u104	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 340, 102 Members registered, for no one, against 43. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u105	Mr Juříček's last amendment to the letter G9 when he proposes a new section 93a concerning further work over time. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u106	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 341, 102 Members registered, for 0 against 37. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u107	We are now voting on the amendment under letter C, respectively, the comprehensive amendment by Mrs Pastuchová, Sklenák, Aulická Jírovcová, who was mentioned here. Opinion: Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u108	The Minister's position? [[Affirmative opinion.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 342, 102 Members registered, for 91, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u109	Since this comprehensive amendment has been adopted, the proposals A1 to A6, F, H2, I2 to I5, J1, which are identical to F1 and I2, J2 and J4, which are identical to F3 and I3 are identical. We will therefore move on to the vote on the amendment under letter D of Mr Cernohorska to the Labour Code. This is an adjustment related to the application of Decree 125 of 1993 Coll. Opinion of the Social Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u110	The Minister's position? [[Sticker, disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 343,: 102 Members registered, for 34, against 40. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u111	We are now voting on the amendment you have under the letter E, Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. This is a simplification of documenting the necessary documents for assessing entitlement to unemployment benefit. Opinion of the Social Committee: recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u112	The Minister's position? [[Agreed.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 344, 102 Members registered, for 93, against none. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u113	Madam Adamová Pekarová's amendment to the Labour Code, when she wants a new point - an extraordinary termination of employment. Opinion of the Social Committee: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u114	The Minister's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 345, registered by 102 Members, for 18, against 44. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u115	We are now voting on the amendment under the letter J3 of Mr Bauer, which proposes the remission of compulsory advances for pension insurance premiums and the contribution to the state employment policy for self-employed persons until December 2020. Here I must say again that Mrs Kovářová's amendment H1 is unvoting. It amends Mr Sklenák's amendment, which has not been tabled in a detailed debate of repeated second reading. Opinion of the Social Committee on Amendment J3: not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u116	The Minister's position? [[Disagree.]] Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 346, 102 Members registered, for 47, versus 17. The motion was denied. So, rapporteur, they are all amendments, are they not? [[Newsletter: Yes.]] So all the proposals were voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill... [[There are voices that Mrs Cernochová wants to speak.]] Oh, yes, I've already been so focused on reading, so, Madame. Mrs Černochová, I presume to vote. Please, you have the floor, of course. [[Mrs Cernochová wants to keep her distance from Mrs Dražil for health reasons.]] Come on, Mrs. Černochová, you have the floor. Please. Yeah, like that, to keep her distance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u117	Thank you. To keep my distance, that's right, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to ask for a 30-minute break on behalf of the ODS, because there were a lot of amendments, and we want to focus on what went through and failed. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u118	So, at the request of the ODS Club, I'm calling a 30-minute break for a club meeting. I'll meet you here at 12.33.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u119	There's been a break at the ODS club's request, and we've got 12.33, so I'm gonna do the debriefing. Check-in and log-in, yes, so I'll check you out, sign up again with your voting cards. Now, Mr Munzar for the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u120	Thank you. I used that break to check the vote. I have found that, in the amendment or in the vote number 343, I have abstained, I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2021-05-07-ps2017-098-12-001-381.u121	Next, Mrs Monika Jarošová votes with the replacement card number 11. So we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 1025, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 347 100 Members registered, for 79, against 1. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Now let's move on to the next point.
