ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5701	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to welcome you all to take your seats and open the 103. National Council meeting for today, 22. May 9 o'clock. The official protocols of the 100. Meeting of 17 March 1990 ==References====External links== Meeting of 18 March 1990 On 4 April 2002, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the protection of their personal data. Members Dr. Mertel, Haller, Ortlieb, Sodian and Dr. Van der Bellen are reported to be prevented for today's meeting. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5735	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following statement: The Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ferrero-Waldner is represented by Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer; Mr Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr Bartenstein by Mrs. State Secretary Mares Rossmann. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5765	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: "The University Law 2002: new opportunities for teaching, research and students in Europe" Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Khol, spoke on the grounds. The speaking time must not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5795	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is first and foremost in terms of quality of life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Since the reform government has been ruling this country together with this National Council, Austria's position in the success statistics of the 194 countries of the world has improved from 24th to 13th place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Head of State Wallnöfer once said: Austria is a "rock-rich" country. We have a lot of stones. – He has expressed that we cannot, like other countries, base our wealth on raw materials – steel, ore, oil – but our "red material" are the people who have been well-trained in this country, who have made this country the seventh-richest country in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If we are discussing university reform today, we are discussing this "raw substance" about how we continue to enable people in this country to train themselves to the best, and how we are providing industry with the research results it needs to maintain and develop the economic and work location of Austria at the high level that we all want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Education and training, science and teaching, research – this not only affects the around 200,000 students in this country, but not only the approximately 20,000 university staff, the professors, assistants and general university staff, that is very important for them all, but it also affects the country as a whole. Science, education, teaching and research bring this country forward, and therefore university reform is so important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The new Federal Government has therefore written a comprehensive educational reform in its programme. Mrs Gehrer has already taken two important steps together with us: We have introduced the study contributions. This was first very, very criticised. Today we know that this was an important step forward. It has also, together with us, introduced a new right of service for university staff – with the agreement of the social partners, the public service union. That too was an important step. Today, Mrs Gehrer submits the university reform to this House, which not only gives us an important discussion and decision-making material, but also makes herself a very beautiful birthday present. We want to congratulate her – she has a round birthday today! [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that university reform is absolutely necessary. The need for reform is undisputed. For several years now, it has been known – and the respective government has known – that: We need high schools, we have to go to universities in the 21st century. ==References== We have to take them out of the dead end where she led the Firnberg/Kreissky University Reform of 1975; a dead end leading to the demise of universities, a dead end that led to the constipation of universities that slowed young scientists, a dead end that led to the fact that universities could not develop sufficient management, a dead end that led us to fall back in the international competition of universities. [[Abg. You son of a bitch, go, stop!]] We want to change that. We want universities to move forward and be among the best in this world! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's the third university reform I'm experiencing: 1964 the University Organization Act of Heinrich Dremmel, it brought the legalisation of the universities; 1975 the higher education reform of Hertha Firnberg and Bruno Kreisky: it brought the strengthening of universities in commissionitis, in legalization, in predominance of meeting university customs, in the repression of university freedom – and yet the universities have performed great achievements; despite this reform and not because of this reform. This is the third great reform that I am experiencing, and I hope that what Minister Tuppy has begun with his reform, that where the third funds... – Mr Schwemlein, you will show white ignorance if you do not know that Tuppy at the time has made a university reform that has brought third-party funds to universities, without which it would not exist the research we have today. [[Abg. Sweam: Just the Tuppy!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Erhard Busek, who had already developed universities in the right direction in 1993, took another step towards reform, but at that time we were inhibited by the social democratic coalition partner. Now we can unabated a reform according to the conceptions of the 21st century. ==References== Mrs Bundesminister, we are grateful for your reform proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Full self-government takes place in the place of state flaws. In place of annual budget struggles and beggaring at the Ministry of Minorities for special donations, full financial autonomy enters a budget that is secured for three years. Instead of these state acts, there is a contractual partnership, just how the partnership is a fundamental idea of this government. In schools we want the school partnership, at universities we want to co-determination, self-determination and partnership agreements between the high schools and the Republic. We shall therefore put this principle in place of the state of affairs. And to replace the rigidity in a fixed concept of old-age service law, the more flexible law of employment, which also brings to universities something that they have not had so far, namely, the work constitution, according to the Works Constitution Act works councils, so that the other staff can participate to the extent that it is possible in all Austrian businesses. This is an important progress also for the workers and employees at the universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The university's freedom of association replaces previous concepts of dependence. We will set up universities that finally have a powerful management, so that the many management errors that characterise today's universities are abolished: Space shortage, too small lecture rooms for students, too few exam dates, too few exercises. The Austrian high schooling has rightly shown a whole series of shortcomings in the processes at the universities. We have put money into universities, but so far we do not have the structures that allow students to exercise their rights – to take exams, to attend lectures and to train themselves. With the university reform, the university itself will bear the responsibility for this. We will continue to give research and teaching to the university's self-management. In other words, management will be the responsibility of the rector and the rectorate; for all matters of science, the Senate will be there with the participation of students, university professors, middle-level construction and staff; and as a control body, the University Council, borne by the trust of the majority of the university, will replace the previous state influence and exercise control. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a new structure that will free up the Austrian universities, which have already done great things. It is a new structure that will lead universities to new top results; a new structure that will provide a real opportunity for those who work at the university and those who are trainees for the future. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[9:12]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e5937	In addition to the announcements announced at the beginning of the meeting, I can say that at 9.01 a.m. we received a fax from the Federal Chancellery with further representation messages, as follows: On a proposal by the Federal Chancellor, Mr. Mag, Federal Minister for the Prevention of Federal Minister Scheibner, will be appointed for the duration of his term. Head of Delegation. Federal Minister Mag. Head of State Secretary Dr. Reinhart Waneckrepresent, and Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Ing. [[Ironic cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: Who represents whom?]] Reichhold is the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry Mag. Molterer. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Will not the representation continue, the main representation?]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Has the Scheibner been hiding with a interceptor?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who represents Van der Bellen?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I need to make this clear so that no mistake arises. I was wrong! Scheibner is represented by Böhmdorfer – with the abandonment of titles – mainly by Waneck and Reichhold by Molterer. In the current hour, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will now come forward with an opinion. The speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6023	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the new university law could be presented to the Council of Ministers in 2002; the new university law, which represents a milestone in the history of universities, the new university law that we have discussed and discussed in more than 300 events, discussions, discussions and discussions for over a year. I would like to thank all those who have been constructively involved in this discussion. Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the course of this discussion, however, I have also experienced the constant spread of many fears, many prejudices. That is why I would like to start by stone and say clearly what is not the case. It is not the case that universities must earn a third of their own budget. They will receive the entire budget from the state. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is not true that the extraordinary professors have no rights and no obligations. You have all rights and all obligations. They are very important and very necessary, we need them at the universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is not true that there will be no more organization at the university. Of course, each university will be divided into faculties, institutes, departments. But it is very important that this organization can be made by the university itself. It is also not right that there will be no more participation. We have provided for the establishment of collegial bodies, and for the first time we have determined that students have even more participation in study matters. At least 25 percent of students must be represented on all matters of study. It is also not true that the University Council will be the political influence for the ministry. More than half of the university council is elected by the university itself. It was very important to me to clarify this at the beginning. I am also very glad that the students now know that these are untruths that are being scattered. Of the 194 776 students we have, only 60 still believe such untruths. These 60 were with me yesterday in the ministry, and I hope we managed to explain the situation to these 60 too. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is an untruth!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is very important to me that we see in this university law the common objectives we want to implement. The common goal is that universities, instead of laws, regulations and decrees, can now live autonomously under modern target agreements that they can live a independence that has been stated as the goal of universities for many years. I also thank those who have thought with us – especially the university members, including the rectors, who have contributed far too much to good developments. I have always said that well-founded proposals are taken very seriously by us. In the context of this reform, we have also made some further developments on the original draft. So I'm saying, The universities receive independence with a secure budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am very grateful that, in good negotiations with the Minister of Finance, we were able to achieve that there is no solid budget. A cover has been laid on the budget for all previous allocations. – The museums are currently working, for four years, with a budget covered. The universities receive their basic budget, a realistic budget, and the budget is dynamic, because the universities receive the increases in salary, the increased social benefits, the costs of changing to a new accounting system and the rents they have to pay to the BIG. It is therefore a budget where the additional costs will be reimbursed and the basic budget will be fully maintained. – My warm thanks goes to the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Finance, who was a good negotiating partner for us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important to me to note that we have rethinked the student participation – based on a mandatory third party, the commissions and commissions, which the students have often said themselves that it is not so interesting to be in these many commissions. For the first time, the governing principles of a university law – I quote – have been adhered to: "Consultation of students, especially in matters of study, in ensuring the quality of teaching and the use of the study contributions". That's what young people want too. They want to be able to talk about what the study contributions are used for. They want to be able to speak with them on the subject of study, as well as with the curriculum and quality offered to them. There is a mandatory evaluation with publication and with consequences. This must be stated in the service agreements, in the statutes. The student participation was thus rethinked. In the law of study, which is also contained in this law, students also had the possibility that four examinations would be available to them and that they would have fixed three examination dates per semester. That was a big concern for the students, and that was accepted. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We have designed a new, efficient administration for universities: an administration with a university council as a strategic body, with a Senate as an academic body and a rectorate as an operational body. It is a slim administration that brings together responsibility and decision-making power. There is therefore a new management. I would also like to clarify the following: Of course, the rector – or hopefully a rector – is given competences to the other organizational units. Of course, he will pass on the sovereignty of the staff through the institutions, the budgetary responsibility for the institution budget as in the case of a procura and, of course, the responsibility will also be transferred. But the overall responsibility for the university is finally established with these three institutions. It is very important to me that there are clear structures, clear responsibilities and clear responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing also concerns me: There was so much talk about the so-called middle building, about the extraordinary university professors and professors. There are more than 2 800 at the universities, and they are a very important part of our universities. They are important for teaching, research and support for students. They were reclassified in our law as "other university teachers". And the transitional provisions stated that their tasks, their rights, but also their duties remain natural: in teaching, in research, in student care, in taking examinations and in managing diplomas. All that they have done so far remains fully preserved. In the course of the discussion, it was also found that there are many extraordinary university professors who are very committed, and that, if the professors propose them, they should also have the opportunity to become head of the institute. Thus, their important tasks at the universities were retained. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. The University Law 2002 brings independence with secure funding, it brings together decision-making and responsibility, and it brings internationalisation. There is a better basis for universities to be able to compete in international competition. We can therefore say with some pride: We are on our way to the world class with this university law 2002!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6139	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in the current hour. The first is Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6164	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The best thing about Mr Khol's speech was that he did not take himself seriously. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] His presentation of the past and the assessment of the University Reform of 1975 were an absolute misevaluation, especially when he talked about Austria becoming the seventh richest country in the world. – It is the result of exactly that policy that Austria became the seventh richest country in the world. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Despite it! Despite that policy!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With Müh and Weh trying to high stylize reform approaches from the previous ÖVP Ministers of Science to the great reforms, while in the speech of Mr Khol, the really great reforms that have moved the universities have hardly occurred or only negatively, already shows how the agitation in relation to this university reform is to look: Something going in the wrong direction is supposed to be nice. – That’s too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's going on in the wrong direction? – Let us talk about funding, Mrs. Federal Minister! According to all estimates in the review, the cost of the reformed university is 20 percent higher than the costs before it. For this 20 percent there is no cover. The three-year budget will also not calm the universities, because the consequence of this undercover in funding will be that already in a few years the reputation will be that the students who will then be at the universities will no longer be able to cope. I hear already today how the ÖVP delegates will say in 2005 – then in opposition: [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP]] We need access restrictions for universities, because these budgets do not make it possible. Ladies and gentlemen! The funding gap is therefore the starting point for access restrictions at universities. But that doesn't make you a world class, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They speak of "slender universities", but they introduce additional university administrations. In all business and other areas, synergies are discussed. And what are you doing? – They are part of the medical faculties, create their own medical union, increase bureaucracy and separate, which is absolutely not relevant. The area where major scientific achievements are being performed today is the intersection of medicine, technology, chemistry and physics. What has been extremely successful in working together is that which separates and destroys you now with your reform. This is not a slimmer administration, it is the bloating of the administration at the expense of science and therefore the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] You're talking about student participation, and you're talking about what the students really want. – Mrs. Federal Minister, with all appreciation, you are not the speaker of the students – these are the democratically elected organs of the Austrian high school, and if you listen to them, then you hear something completely different, namely that participation is significantly limited and also the Austrian high schooling is reduced in its importance. This happens according to the motto: Black and blue loses the elections at the universities, the consequence of which is the limitation of high school. – This is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to co-determination. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] In general, all opinions from the universities – whether general staff, middle-class, professors, students or rectors – were unisono negative. The most important principle in every reform is to try to get all those who are supposed to carry the reform on board. In each company, every restructuring is of the utmost importance to ensure that employees are involved so that they can also contribute to the new structure. They do exactly the opposite: They face the people involved in the reform of the university. They don't want them on board. They want to class a law against the will of all those involved. That, dearly, Ladies and gentlemen, there can be no good reform! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! They have promised that in the course of the negotiations there will be a lot to do here in Parliament. We hope that this will be possible, even if we do not have much reason to trust, because you also said before the introduction of the tuition fees that these would never come. And today they are the basis for the praise of Mr Khol. That's not how you're going to come to a solution!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6261	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6280	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have to give some clarifications to the previous speaker, Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer. He said that the previous Uni reforms had largely gone well. I agree with him in a way. At the same time, however, the reformers say that the reforms have remained half-way and have to be further developed. Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, read the report of the University Board on the present proposal! There is talk of a coherent, forward-looking and dynamic proposal that balances the shortcomings of previous laws. Here we have the confirmation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Gusenbauer! The reform therefore goes in the right direction, even if the student representative, Mrs Mautz, does not believe it. I didn't trust my eyes. In a press comment she spoke about "threating orientation to international standards". [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] If a young, dynamic student representative fears the orientation of international standards, then I don't know, then it beats for me thirteen. If the same young, dynamic student representative says it threatens customer orientation, then I say she has so far understood nothing about education theory and education policy. Then she apparently put herself in lectures and passively consumed what she was offered. If she had ever taken her studies seriously and would also want to take them seriously in the future, she knows that she must produce the knowledge in her own mind through the suggestions and guidance of the teachers themselves and must never be afraid of becoming a customer in the sense of just passive consumer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to address the real student representatives and their wishes. I think these have a lot to learn. I have talked a lot with my colleagues from the club and with students' representatives. We have taken into account essential suggestions. The 25 percent minimum representation in the Senate is the measure that has been achieved so far. I ask you not to build false pictures, not chimaries, and then to kill them! The current anchoring of the participation is at least the level that has also ruled so far, at least in the university parliament and in the Senate. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Never!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Synergies between universities, also between medical universities in the future, have been addressed. The university locations in Vienna, Graz and Innsbruck have expressed themselves very differently on the question of independent medical union. These statements have not given a clear picture of the future organization. A random house-in-house division would have legistically created such complications that the present form is the more practical, the more pragmatic. To this end, the majority of the doctors concerned have expressed themselves. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated preliminary speakers! Ladies and gentlemen! The service agreements in the future law provide room for increasing demand from students and scope for post-negotiations also in terms of future budgeting. But if, at the same time, more and more young people are going to colleges at the same university at the same time – which we are quite happy with in the sense of self-determination – we will also have to provide them with financial resources. This free choice, which course of education is chosen, which course of education is designed, must be left to the students. Another thing: Don't warn about the decline in the number of students! The number of students active has remained in fact the same. They are the ones who ask for courses. They are the ones who ask the university's achievements. For these active students, adequate provision is also made in the future budget. And another clarification: It has been said that the future law requires 20 percent more budget resources. This is a calculation of the rectors, essentially those of Vice-ector Dr. Gantner. In the parliamentary survey, however, he admitted, if one is to bind federal liability, transitional regulations for laws, then this 20 percent is significantly reduced in the direction of 10 percent or less. – To one half of the truth, please always say the other half of the truth! Ladies and gentlemen! What is still important to me – the Federal Minister has already mentioned the crucial points – is the following: The backbone, the academic backbone of university life, namely the extraordinary professors will also have their full rights in the future and can exercise their management functions. I hope that they will also use themselves – and this is still important to me – for the full support of women and equal treatment already fully anchored, because this is an important opportunity for future development – especially in the field of the extraordinary professors. I look forward to the law with constructive attention and look forward to parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6349	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Speaking time: also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6368	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! When Mr Gusenbauer speaks of "the reason for confidence", he obviously does not take himself seriously. Mr Niederweiser, you know it best: In science policy, we had the principle that we ultimately found about the discussion of laws. Mr Grünewald will be able to confirm this. We have shown here in the last two and a half years how to bring about legislation and good laws in the scientific field. If Mr Gusenbauer, who has been talking about university reform over and over recently, speaks of "the reason for confidence", I ask his address: What confidence should we and the universities have last year if you promise that if the Public Service Trade Union of Service Novelle agrees, you will also agree here in Parliament? – Then there was the agreement of the Public Service Trade Union, but you did not agree to this Novelle Service Law! What is the ultimate reason for confidence here in the House? [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not always want to talk about the negative pages that are overemphasized, like panic and fear. I leave this to Mr Gusenbauer and other members of the opposition. I would like to say something about the real milestones of this reform: The universities wanted personal sovereignty. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted budget sovereignty. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted to be organized. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted a high level of resources. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted revolving global budgets. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted to be excluded from the camera list. – They get them through this reform. The universities wanted a partnership principle with the public. – They will receive it and will be released from the administration and from the sovereignty principle. The universities wanted to be discharged from the obligation to teach. – They get this and are now only subject to supervision. The Ministry gives almost all the competences either to the University Council, to the rectorate or to the Senate. The Ministry reserves only budgetary control and supervisory law. The universities wanted responsible structures. - They'll get it. We wanted more management elements. – The universities will receive these within the framework of the new organization, including the four-eye principle and more. The universities wanted an evaluation obligation with consequences. – You will receive this evaluation obligation with consequences. You just have to say that! Since the time is short, there is not much more to it than to point out these key points which we have discussed here many times over the last three years. The reform is not a robbery, but it has occurred at the latest since the reform of Firnberg. Firnberg had only one goal: Workers' children should be able to study. The result was that since 1975 there have been no more workers' children at the universities, but for that there are students who have to work so that they can afford to study. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Now there is no more!]] – That's what Firnberg produced! [[Calls to the Greens.]] And there are also a number of unemployed academics. – That was the reform of Hertha Firnberg, and this reform is now being corrected. This has occurred no later than the early 1990s, and we are now implementing it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It's always spoken of synergies. Mr Gusenbauer! I think the universities are extremely mature in being able to carry out research, teaching and science even across university borders. If you don't trust the universities, Their true understanding of a coursed university that we no longer want. In my opinion, this is a good government template that has been introduced in Parliament, and it will be a very good law, which we will adopt here in July after a long discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6445	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6467	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Mr. Klubobmann Khol! With tension and a slightly increased pulse, I have tracked your executions. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Look!]] They are a brilliant example of the peculiar logic in this debate. You have shown how bad this Kreisky’sche, Firnberg’s model was, but you have forgotten that you have just made your university career in this model. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He's been highly gifted!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: It was before! 1969!]] Then how do you get to the term "sackgasse"? Was your career a dead end? Was the university really so bad at the time? They have spread incense – if I hear only now: new opportunities for teaching, research and students in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: 1969 I had a habilitation! Before! In front of the Firnberg!]] - Great! So early, interesting. They spread incense and mean what would be as fantastic as many stones you had to clear out of the way. You once talked about this long march through the Gobi Desert. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] Experts for desert landscapes claim that these marches are mostly survived by Dromedaren rather than by people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: And the camels!]] Therefore, this is not a good picture, especially when comparing the desert with a university landscape. I say quite frankly to you: For centuries universities have been constantly changing and reforming themselves. I also believe that there is a desire for further reforms at universities. It is not a declaration of war and not a vote of distrust when we talk about reforms. I only question once again the goodness of the arguments. If German chancellor bowl in one – what does that call? – "Red to the Nation" – this is already such a mixture of "napoleonesque Bushiades" – says that it is a "bassna argument" that is led here – an excellent donation! – if German Chancellor Schüssel makes the reform tasty to the universities in this "redness to the nation" by comparing the division of the universities with the distribution of the Schönbrunn Tiergarten and the Marchfeld castles, I really wonder: [[Rejoicing and congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] What kind of debate is that? – She reminded me of a discussion about the holding conditions of primates during asparagus eating. That's all! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] That's just not a comparison! It is also something else if I recognize that certain concessions have taken place, some compromise offers. I'm not going to abdicate that. Nevertheless, the spirit, which becomes visible behind this reform, is still too clearly in these paragraphs. Mrs. Brinek! They represent education sciences, pedagogy, partly also philosophical currents, which you quote time and again. This mind is simple and simple: You only have to turn on some screws of the structure and organization, and then come down – you hear and marvel! – quality out. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's too simple!]] It's not that simple! It's also not that easy to say we need the middle construction, it's so important and it's doing so great functions and nothing happens to it, while 80, 90 or 100 percent of this middle construction is still in front of the head. Are they all stupid? Are they all born? Are they all eternal? Some concessions have been made to the students, very well. But are they still talking about other things that go beyond their studies? Are they really no more than customers and consumers? Are they not part of a team of teachers, learners and researchers? – This idea of the team is especially strongly focused on the most extreme if one believes that a group of people should be given the absolute majority in all the bodies, namely the group that has already had 50 percent of all the votes so far. Khol says the universities failed in management, they didn't make it. – Now this group gets the absolute majority, and everything is going to get better? [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] – Unique. I don't understand. I really don't understand! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's the core!]] It will be if you, Mr. Dr. Khol, so continue to argue, don't get better! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's been habilitating under Firnberg! He's already a product of Firnberg's high school policy!]] But one point is important: What should the universities of the future be? I prophesy: The universities will be – this is a warning! – get smaller.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6635	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6650	You never discussed that. If you say the regular study of the future is the Bakkalaureat, then this is a sign of a degradation at the universities. Thank you. (Applause from the Greens and the SPÖ) - Abg. Dr. Brinek: He had it twice as hard under Firnberg!)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6677	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6699	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! They have made this draft law the theme of a current hour. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Was good too! It's a good law, too!]] I suppose because you want to praise yourself. Why, however, do we ask ourselves, do we see this in a completely different way at the universities? [[Call to the Liberties: The Deer is not up-to-date!]] Why do the universities react by preparing the strike? Why does high schooling feel pushed to the brink? And why do the university staff fear they're losing their posts? – Because they all believe that this is not a milestone, but a rock that will be charged to them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Klubobmann Khol even spoke of three milestones – as was the case yesterday with German Chancellor Schüssel. He mentioned the law of service, the tuition fees and the university law. Let us take a closer look at these three "milestones" – as they are called in the Khol's department – once more! The law of the service – as you can claim the opposite as often as you want – has not been accepted by the trade union because it is a punch. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: That's not true!]] It disadvantages young scientists and prefers those who already do well. The young scientists now earn an average of 8,000 s less per month. And that's what you call progress? There is a completely different view of human beings in this new right of service. You're right: This is an overall trend change in university policy and in general. The human image you introduce with this right to serve at the universities includes – in short –: retrieve, push, and then drop again! – This is not our human image, and therefore, of course, it is a total trend turnaround. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Our human image is that we give everyone a chance. If someone works well and proves himself at the university, he should also have the opportunity to continue working there without being constantly threatened in an important phase of his life to lose his existence. The second milestone, mentioned by Federal Chancellor Schüssel and Mr. Kohl, is the tuition fees. The question then arises why the study fees are called milestones. But it's true: The tuition fees were a milestone in several respects, because never has a promise – that is, no tuition fees been introduced – been broken as shamefully as this was the case here. – That was the first very marked one. The second thing you have introduced is the principle that education becomes a commodity. We have always seen education as a cultural asset and we still regard it as a cultural asset that we must offer openly as many people as possible so that they can continue to be educated. But they say education is a commodity, education means "must pay". [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Who says "a commodity"?]] This is, of course, a trend change that we do not agree with. And that the party of the "little man" participates in it is already more than strange, because education as a commodity means that everything is open to those who can afford it, and for those who cannot afford it, access already has early limits. - That's not our idea. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The third milestone, which was mentioned here – the University Law – we call a backsliding of democracy. I'm not talking about total abolition. It has been moving within the last few months, we take note of that. Nevertheless, there is a clear push back. Mr Khol also said: Getting away with the Firnberg’s reform, where everyone could say, we want to replace democracy with management here. But at the same time, that means you're going the wrong way. We believe that one can only shape the future of an organization, the future of universities with people, that one can only make them positive if one also gives them the opportunity to actively participate and to participate in the future of universities. With pushbacks, with management instead of becoming democracy They don't bring the universities forward. Three milestones! - I know we're simplifying here a little. [[Abg. Böhacker: Always these...!]] First milestone: They want Söldner, we want employees! Second milestone: They want education as a commodity, we want education that is open to everyone! Third milestone: We want democratic universities, you want the management universities! You should not decide this law against the will of universities or against our votes. The SPÖ has presented a forward-looking counter-model. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: From the past!]] Let us negotiate seriously and thoroughly! Let's take the time to get out of this Hintelstein really to become a milestone!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6870	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. He'll get the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6891	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Niederwieser, I listened very carefully to your speech. For me, it has been the proof of what your strategy is: Forward comrades, back to the past! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This is not our strategy, Mr Deweiser. That was not a strategy for the future, it was a look into the past. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Gaßner and Edler.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, let me note the following – in my capacity as a financial speaker, I know what I am talking about –: The most important capital in the economy is not equity, nor foreign capital. The most important capital in the economy is human capital, human resources, our employees. Today we see the international trend that large companies and economic sites are emerging where there is a high degree of research, development and education. Today, those economic sites benefit from a highly qualified competence centre for research, development, training and further training. In large areas of its education system, Austria has excellent conditions for the attractiveness of its economic location, for the quality of its employees. Let us look at the OECD's compulsory schooling, for example! We discussed them here weeks ago. Austria is European top class, best German-speaking country! No OECD country invests more in its students than Austria. This is an excellent testimony to our education policy in this sector, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There is a second very good example: the vocational training sector. Our dual vocational training system contributes to the fact that for many years Austria has been one of the countries with the lowest youth unemployment in the world, which has always been on the Stockerl in recent years with all professional olympics, always taking places in one, two or three internationally. These are excellent areas of our education system! But we must be so honest, to say, for the third area, for higher education, this is only an objective. It is also our goal there to become a European class, a world class. But it's not the state yet, it's the target state. Ladies and gentlemen! This also feels wide circles of the population. If polls indicate that 82 percent of the population share this reform and know that our higher education system is reformed, this shows the common sense of our citizens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me also say the following: These reforms are urgently needed. The economy is not all, I know. Finally, however, everyone wants to have a job and income opportunities. I do not prescribe anyone – and the economy does not prescribe it – what he should study. Everyone is completely free in his decision which degree he chooses. But he should have a fair chance to have a job, income opportunities and, ultimately, social security in the economy. That's why I have to say: We do not want to be the country of which it is often said today that it is the country with the oldest students and the youngest pensioners. This cannot be the goal of an ambitious policy for the future! Therefore, these reforms are necessary, in accordance with the following principles: greater ownership and less premise; greater freedom and fewer regulations; more performance and less bureaucracy; more opportunities and fewer emptying; more budgetary space and less budgetary corsets. Ladies and gentlemen! That is why these reforms are so important for the future of our country, especially from the point of view of the economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Minister! It must be a very nice feeling today on your round birthday to be able to discuss such a great reform here in this House, which bears so clearly your manuscript. We congratulate you on both: on the round birthday and on this great reform work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: We only congratulate on our birthday!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This reform work – let me stress this very clearly at the end – is not only a milestone in education policy, it is a quantum leap in strengthening the economic location of Austria and thus a longer-term contribution to more jobs, more income opportunities and more social security.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e6985	In order to ensure that there is no doubt as to whether we congratulate the Minister on his birthday or the political statements made by the honourable Member, I would like to join with the birthday congratulations, and I can congratulate the House as a whole. [[General condolences.]] The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7015	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The university is and remains a place of unrest, of constant departure, of dissatisfaction with the status quo. This is precisely the prerequisite for research. It is the uncomfortable environment in which science takes place. This constant search for better results, of course, in questioning and changing the forms of organization and the tasks of our universities. We have heard the data from Mr Klubobmann Khol: There were university reforms in 1946, 1964, 1975, 1993 and finally in 2002. Thus, the forms of organization have hardly survived one decades. It's not a damage, it's a benefit to the university. Klubobmann Khol spoke in connection with the last reform of the "Bremsklotz SPÖ". Mrs. Federal Minister! They started the engine for university reform. With you in the car, you had a dedicated civil service. It must be mentioned here, with what commitment and with what willingness to reform Your staff worked, and I thank your staff on behalf of our group. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] As far as the brake block of the past is concerned, Mrs. Federal Minister, this time a reform turbo in the form of the Freedom Party was available to you, which always wanted this autonomy to be the aim of this breathing, the free breath of the universities, and this time was able to bring it in accordingly. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] No one questioned the need for reform. Many criticized the drafts in their opinions, many criticized these drafts whether they had read them or not. That's where I have a presumption towards Klubobmann Gusenbauer: I think he should make the effort to read this law at least in an approach. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's not here yet! He's not here, Mr. Grollitsch.]] He is missing from the debate now. Dr. Gusenbauer complained here at the speaker's desk about the bureaucracy that was created by this new law. – I was allowed to work at the university for 30 years. Between 1975 and 1995, the proportion of officials in universities increased by more than 400 percent. This brought with it the 1975 law, and this could not slow down the reform in 1993. So talking about the fact that the bureaucracy has now, as it were, been freshly invented is nonsense. Of course, it is to be hoped that universities will apply this autonomy responsibly, that they are willing to take on responsibility, because all objections to the review procedures have rather led to the presumption that the concern about the carrying of responsibility was the priority. It will no longer be possible to point your finger at the ministry if anything is wrong, you will have to look into the mirror. Universities! Perceive the opportunity, take responsibility! Mrs. Federal Minister! Finally, on my part and on the part of my group, I should like to congratulate you once again on your birthday, and I congratulate you on your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7065	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7086	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Klubobmann Khol, at the beginning of your speech you have listed the shortcomings that students in Austria face. They talked about the lack of space, the lack of testing dates, and so on. – We all know these shortcomings, of which we know, of which students tell us, or we perceive them ourselves. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: You give me the right to do so only once!]] – Yes, on that point I give you the right, but with the consequences that the government has taken, I cannot give you the right. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: I think so!]] Mr. Klubobmann! How would you judge this if you took advantage of a performance today, for this performance, which, as you yourself have said, has shortcomings which is bad, which is inadequate, should now pay something at once, and not little, and the performance remains, however, except for other things? The Minister said that the universities were on their way to the world class. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Trust!]] – Trust is of no use to those who today are confronted with the lack of space, with the overcrowded audiences, with the ugly conditions and the lack of dates. They want a performance, they don't want to pay for trust. Paying for trust is a bad principle. Give these benefits first! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Especially if there is to be a step towards autonomy, then there must be a real autonomy. 25 percent participation is slightly different from a third parity, as I imagine it. Of course, students' rights have been regained. I don't think that's good for the universities as a whole. You can turn this and turn as you like, you can also talk about 300 events. They have never really responded to this criticism, and that is why we cannot go in line with these ideas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The "March through the Gobi Desert" is apparently the long way to the world class, but the fees are under attack today. This is actually the heart of the reform, which is a narrowing of the concept of education. Whenever it is said from the speaker's desk that the open universities did not really benefit the young people from poorer layers, I have to say that is not true. The free access to universities has been very much redistributive in terms of education policy. It has gone slowly, but it has taken hold, and the open universities have been unevenly stronger for the children, the young people from poorer families than the others. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Open universities are an instrument of redistribution. And behind your path is a very clear concept: They want to narrow down university access. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] As said, those who have in the background the necessary small money of the parents or out of a fortune will take all these obstacles. Dr. Khol! You already know the cases! You get emails from women who have children whose studies take longer, and they just say: I'm not raising the money. And above all: What do they pay, if not really, for the quality of which you are always shivering, but which is not present in reality? A second point: You've been talking about internationalism. – Of course, there is a certain internationality at universities, but my question is: Are you really doing everything you can to promote them? – The answer is no! There, too, your concept of elite universities is being pursued – unfortunately! – because there is hardly a country where opportunities for foreign students, especially for third-country nationals, are as restrictive as in Austria. There are studies that demonstrate that children of migrant workers in particular have virtually no opportunity to study. They have to pay increased tuition fees, but they have no way in Austria to earn at least their studies because this is forbidden because the coalition partner, in particular, has prevailed with his well-known ideology. Overall, this is not a real reform, but unfortunately an evidence of poverty for Austrian education policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7198	I declare the current hour to end. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7219	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I refer to the written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7472	In addition, the following templates have been received: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Government of the People's Republic of China on cultural cooperation (1070 of the Supplements), Decision of the Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, of 27 December 1988. February 2002 on the financial consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty and on the Research Fund for Coal and Steel, its Annexes and Annexes and Annexes and statements by the representatives of the Government of the Member States meeting within the Council (1099 of the Supplements) and the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the European Communities and their Member States, of the one part, and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, of the other part, together with Annexes and Protocols and Final Acts and Declarations (1127 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the President's Conference, I suggest that we refrain from assigning these proposals to committees and taking them into account when drawing up the agenda for one of the next meetings. Is there any objection? - That's not the case. Then we'll do that. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7507	I inform you that the green club according to § 74a para. 2 before the entry into the agenda, the Rules of Procedure asked for urgent consideration of the self-employed amendment 673/A (E) tabled at the same time by Dr Glawischnig, colleagues with regard to the implementation of the Federal Government's eco-tax concept on creating work, reducing the environment. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, this urgent request will be raised at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the reply to the question 3579/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7531	I also inform you that, before entering the agenda, the request made pursuant to § 92 GOG was made to hold a short debate on the reply 3579/AB to Mr Silhavy's question 3750/J on the protection of citizens from self-appointed civil defences by the Federal Minister for the Interior. As we have just determined that a urgent request will be made at 3 p.m., the short debate will be held after the debate on the urgent request has been completed. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7555	I would also like to sum up the debate on points 2 to 6 and 9 to 11 of today's agenda. I ask the House whether there is any objection. – Since this is not the case, we will discuss points 2 to 6 and 9 to 11 together. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7583	Consensus on the design and duration of the agenda was reached in the Presidential Conference as follows: A day block time of 8 "Vienna hours" is to be set, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 156 minutes, liberals and ÖVP each 116 as well as green 92 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I'm asking: Are there votes against or objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. This is so unanimously defined. 1. Point Report of the Teaching Committee on the Education and Study Fees (966 of the Supplements) and on the petition (10/PET) for the reduction of the maximum number of students and against the austerity of the FPÖVP government in the field of education, presented by Mr Dieter Antoni; and on the petition (19/PET) concerning "participation in education", presented by Mr Gabriele Binder; and on the Citizens' Initiative (11/BI) on savings projects in the field of education and training; and on the citizens' initiative (12/BI) on quality assurance in education; and on the Citizens' Initiative (14/BI) on "Requirement after the maximum number of students in Austrian schools to enable modern knowledge transfer", and on the citizens' initiative (15/BI) on the reduction of the maximum number of school students; and on the Citizens' Initiative (16/BI) on Resolution against cuts in education; and on the citizens' initiative (17/BI) on the security of high education standards in Austria; and on the motion for a resolution 399/A (E) by Mrs Dieter Antoni, ladies and gentlemen, on quality offensive in schools and adult education (1113 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7683	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There is no need for oral reporting. – It stays there too. That is why we are going into the debate. I call Mr Antoni, the first speaker to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7710	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, when we discuss this educational popular desire, which was carried out in Austria almost a three-quarters ago, we are discussing more than 200 000 signatures by Austrians, who have expressed their concern and dissatisfaction with developments in the Austrian education system in petitions and citizens' initiatives. The concerns and concerns expressed are, in our opinion, well justified and therefore serious, and we Social Democrats are doing so and have done so throughout the debate in the subcommittee. Ladies and gentlemen! No one of us can or should today deny that changes in our society, changes in our culture and in our economy make completely new demands on our education system – not only since the discussion on education-population. I think I can see that more than ever, good education and training will decide whether a young person can meet the challenges of tomorrow and whether he has grown up to them. Now we need to note that we don't know the world tomorrow in at least detail. But what we expect is certain outlines, and some corner or fixed points can certainly be called: Internationalisation will be a challenge, a variety of cultures will all surround us, and I also believe that there will be an enormous increase in knowledge and information, as well as new technologies that we already have in the midst of us. Furthermore – and this is a special challenge – profound changes are to be expected in the individual work organisations. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to continue to participate in the knowledge society, we need to define in time: What is a sustainable education system? What should it look like? . I think it is high time to enter a public debate on a sustainable education system. In a few words: For us Social Democrats, a sustainable education system must be a broad, flexible offer of high quality – a wide range that ensures and allows access to all pupils, all young people, and ultimately all adults – in order to involve lifelong learning as well. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] The education system – now I join the past debate – must be democratic and solid. It must be dynamic, flexible and permeable, and it must be based mainly on the abilities, requirements and possibilities of the students. I now leave things, which are being discussed intensively today, quite consciously, because speakers of my group will still comment on them. The school equipment, the maximum number of students, the group sizes, the allocation of resources, the teacher service law, the performance assessment and many other things, as well – all of these are self-evident things that I do not want to address extra. The most important and probably top goal of school education – which is now the level below – will and must be that students develop gradually, but consistently to motivated, interested and largely self-learning people. Only then will we have the opportunity to enable more people than before to learn life-long learning or to take it seriously. Ladies and gentlemen! This also significantly alters or widens the target dimension of education. Education offers personal orientation in an increasingly complex world – a first important point. Education enables the participation and design of personal and social life, and finally education is the key to the labour market and the basis for economic development. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Unfortunately, you had neither the willingness nor the will to address these problems in the course of the debate on education. I therefore say "sufferer" because there has been a wealth of suggestions from the experts, and because we rarely have the opportunity to sit together with such many highly competent experts and to discuss these important things. I would have expected that we would at least have had a discussion in the context of the general debate. For example, if I recall the proposals and considerations of Professor Schilcher, Professor Rathmayr, Professor Lenz or Dr. Strasser, I can say that there were options, there were proposals that were suitable to take the opportunity to have a comprehensive discussion. Unfortunately and actually disappointing, the general debate has gone on for me, because it was used by the two government parties only to inform us – after 20 hours, more intensive and, according to my understanding, very well-running discussion – that there is no need for action. In education, in the citizens' initiatives and petitions, only the key points and pressure points of the day were addressed and taken up. Let me now comment briefly on this in telegram style. A massively criticised and therefore included in the educational population’s desire was the invading introduction of the study fees, which resulted in the fact that there was a drop in students by almost 20 per cent in 2001/2002 alone, that there was an alarming drop in female study students and that there was a decrease in the number of students in the study year 2001/2002. In the meantime, 82 percent of students already have to be partially or fully employed, so that they can still afford to study at all. I now criticise the fact that the concept of a working student does not exist at all until now and also in the new university draft. There are no specific offers for this group. There are no appropriate time adjustments, there are no structural adjustments either. This leads to the fact that these same students have much longer study periods and, of course, although they hardly consume them, they have to pay each semester for their study contributions. If you say that there is no need for action here, ladies and gentlemen, then I cannot understand! The budget-accompanied laws and the financial compensation – you know – have introduced savings measures in the field of education. They deny these savings measures. However, if you look at the reality of the classes, the schools, you need to take note of – we have a lot of contacts – there are a number of deletions of additional education courses in class: For example, special funding lessons and measures for the integration of children with non-German mother tongues are reduced, afternoon care is called into question, as are free goods, non-binding exercises and some more. But there is no need for action on all of this! The problem still unsolved in the field of secondary education was a very important point of discussion. You know the problem. We have a fight in the agglomerations for schools in the AHS sub-level, we also have the driering primary school. We already have 50 and more percent of students in the AHS sub-level in cities with more than 10,000 inhabitants. In the rural regions, the AHS sub-level is not accessible, and the primary school is the school for all. Then we discussed school forms of cooperation. Experts and MEPs shared the view that cooperation is necessary, and they are already taking place in many places – cooperation across all types of schools: Primary school – primary school, primary school – AHS, secondary school I, secondary school II, educational academies, universities and much more. We have also found that cooperations are particularly important at the seas, i.e. folk school – secondary schools, primary school – secondary schools and so on. It's all good and right. But one thing you could or did not want to allow, namely the establishment of cooperations, of open, flexible cooperations in the field of secondary education. We wanted a uniform federal arrangement for new forms of cooperation, but unfortunately there is a no, because you see no need for action either. Ladies and gentlemen! The constantly rising number of school students also leads to a more difficult situation in our schools. Today we have 350 classes in Austria, in which 36 and more students sit. They always try to calm us down with averages, but the real situation in these 350 classes can only be disastrous – because we know that high schooling numbers make a modern education almost impossible, because we know that high schooling numbers make individual care more difficult in primary schools, and because we also know that school-centred teaching in these classes is no longer possible. Directly related to this problem is the insufficient number of schools, especially in middle and higher schools. We have heard from experts that in the current school year there have been 7 000 rejections to secondary and higher schools. Hofrat Skal has told us that the situation in vocational schools is extremely problematic, that teaching has become extremely difficult and that this is the cause of the high dropout rates in upper secondary schools. [[Abg. Amon: This has not been said by Scale!]] We have proposed more school room, more schools, more value units, more teachers, more use of free and empty classroom, because we know that in fashion schools, in agricultural schools, in primary schools... – Mr. Schweitzer! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: How do you pay that? How do you pay that? How do you pay that? – Make a suggestion!]] Here's a technical discussion in progress, your calls don't help me now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Our offers have not been heard because you see no need for action. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Do you know what I want? For two people a teacher!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Take-off hunters!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: what you want to pay with the interception hunters!]] I come to the conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, but before my conclusion I mention the unbearable situation in the apprenticeship market. They certainly know that in March 2002 8 000 apprentices had no teaching place, so they did not have the opportunity to attend the vocational school, and that this is the cause of many young people having to quit their school career in advance. They know that we have around 7 000 pupils per year of age, who no longer make further schooling after compulsory school. According to ÖSTAT, 25 percent of up to 25-year-olds are already affected by the fact that they do not take further education after compulsory school. In this context, we have proposed to you the establishment of a vocational school as a complement to dual training – for those young people who do not find jobs in the apprenticeship market. But you see no need to act. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! As constructive and object-oriented as the discussion in the Committee was – and I really want to hold that – your reactions in the final phase or in the willingness to change something, to improve something. They have rejected everything, but also absolutely everything. They have explained that everything is the best, there is no need for change, we do not need offensives, it is all good as it is. I can promise you that we Social Democrats will continue to promote the right to education, to the right to training for young people and to free access to all educational institutions and to secure equal opportunities and equal opportunities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me make one more motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! There are alarming results from recently published statistics and studies on the increase in violence in our schools. There are several studies that support this, and we Social Democrats therefore see urgent need for action. After the Federal Minister has already sent out signals that she wants to act on this, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7852	The motion for a resolution, which Mr Antoni has just read, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. I call Mr Amon. Voluntary time limit: 12 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e7876	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Antoni today is disappointed by the outcome, then of course this is also due to what he has been thinking in advance of this so-called educational population desire. Mr Antoni, you have always said that you will try to put all these demands into practice in popular desire. That's what it was. Your claim to popular desire. We have said that we think the approaches in this popular desire are wrong. We want to use the debate to take up and clarify fears that are, in part, justified fears and to face up to the panic of some of them in the field of education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is why we can say today that we have actually achieved our goal. We have debated very detailed, very constructively. I would like to underline this at this point and thank all the parties here in the house that we have also achieved a four-party consensus on the procedure of the deliberations. We have debated the educational issues in three days, over 80 experts and information workers have heard, and more than 100 debates have provided an opportunity to deliver opinions and make positions. I think it is good that we deal with education in such detail, because it gives particular importance to education issues under this federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We must also see, however, that this educational offensive and study fees popular desire from support was one of the weakest popular desires in the history of the Second Republic. This popular desire has not even signed 200,000 people – which does not mean that I do not appreciate those people who have expressed their fears there, but you have to see the number of signatures in the right proportion. If one sees how broad this popular desire was, starting from the study fees on questions of the right of service of teachers and university teachers, and if one sees that there were also apprentices - via a full-time vocational school and the like - a direct target group of over one million students, 200 000 students, 122 000 teachers and their families - a target group of about three million people who were actually directly affected, but did not even think it necessary to sign this desire, then I must say: For me, it is clear that there is a relatively broad satisfaction with education policy in Austria – and that is right, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is said again and again – but it is not more true that it is said again and again – that this federal government is breaking up education in Austria. Of course, we can continue this debate infinitely. You may not get tired of claiming that we are saving in the education system, but we will not be tired enough to prove to you that we have the highest educational budget since 1945, that every seventh euro is invested in education in Austria, and that the share of education in the budget is the largest resource ever available for education in Austria. And this is not least the merit of our Mrs. Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I would also like to try an independent witness once again. Only last week did the "spiegel", a rather left-liberal leaf, quote from the PISA study: The price of knowledge. – The source is the OECD PISA study, even purchasing power adjusted, and it shows that Austria is among the students from the first class to the 15th grade. Year of life spends most for education worldwide. – This is what the education policy of this Federal Government looks like, and we also confess to it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is true, of course, if you say that we have "only" – under quotation marks – a budgetary increase of about two and a half percent and a structural effect that lies above. That's right. We are also taking measures to reduce this structural effect. But I wonder: Where are your actions? Where are your proposals for an educational budget that is the highest in the history of the Second Republic? The only answer you always have is that we're supposed to break the system. No constructive proposal comes from you in this context! I invite you to present here a proposal that will keep the budget, but you do not think that it would mean a loss of the education system. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two points of popular desire; the other points will then be dealt with in detail by my colleagues. The first point is point 4.1, which concerns the creation of a federal legislation for new forms of cooperation between the different types of schools, both vertical and horizontal. There is no proposal for a legal change in this people's desire, only one is required, and even in the Committee's debate, the two opposition parties did not agree, which may be meant by this request. For example, the expert of the Greens, Mrs. Landtagsreiter Jerusalem, said – I quote literally –: "At the outset, I would like to point out that I am asking for a recommendation, which is really to be done in this secondary level I, to say very clearly and strongly only: to introduce the common school..." So that's the whole school. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Antoni then said in the discussion that this was not the priority objective of the Social Democrats. If that comes out in the end, it may be a far-reaching goal, but this is not meant here. Mr Antoni, that was your statement in committee. This makes it relatively difficult to enter a legislative debate on the basis of this demand, and where it can be read in the Grogger report that those evaluated attempts we have at secondary level in Vienna do not bring the desired success. The cooperative secondary school models available in Vienna do not improve for the students. The aim of a reform in the school system is to: The aim of implementing school experiments can only be to improve the pupils, and not just that it costs more. That can't be the result of school tests! I take to heart what the people's desire is saying here: They call for the creation of a federal legislation for new forms of cooperation, i.e. not for those forms that are obviously at the experimental stage now because they have not been successful. We are also waiting for your proposals here. With regard to the upper-level reform in general higher schools, we are in very good negotiations and discussions. I would also like to address the point of the required full-time vocational school. There was consensus in the committee – I think I can say that – that we want to maintain the good Austrian dual education system. There is a demand in popular desire for the introduction of a full-time vocational school, literally: the right to vocational training, the full-time vocational school. Therefore, we do not follow this demand because we do not believe that training vocational training is practically an alternative to dual training, because it is precisely those who are more likely to suffer from a school failure, who then have a problem with finding apprenticeships and making a dual education. Now, as a solution, to offer a school form of training again, is probably not a target. It is more important here – and this is the danger we see in it – to preserve young people, and that cannot be the sense and intention of education policy. The aim and intention of education policy must be to create individual offers. We actually have a form of full-time vocational school in the form of middle and higher schools. These are, after all, full-time training schools. I believe that we should provide appropriate assistance through individual offers, such as teaching, offers on the labour market service and so on. It is also stated in the Committee's report that we want to put in place measures to help those who do not find a teaching place. However, I would also like to point out that we in the European Union have the second lowest rate of youth unemployment, and this is due not least to the good dual education system in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I come to the last point, namely the demand for a reduction in the number of school students. Dr. Antoni, you have raised this demand once again. It is not about the question of level models, it is not about the question of pressure points that we have in the first classes of higher schools, for example, because many, instead of going to the polytechnic school and their 9. To complete compulsory school there, prefer to choose a higher education school. The demand in popular desire is quite clear. The demand is: for the reduction of the number of students to 25 students per class – and that, although we do not exceed the number of students of 25 in Austria in even 10 percent of all classes! I already admit that there are pressure points there and there. But this cannot be the reason to reduce the number of students generally to 25, where we must also see that in the international comparison – thank God, I say – we have very, very low numbers of students, and where we must also see the development of the number of students: The development of student numbers is clearly going down – and not up! [[the speaker holds a graphic in height]] Therefore: Now that the number of students is lowered, it would be paradoxical. It is far more important that we consider how we in rurally structured areas can get the school locations to bring education to the people and also ensure that they can enjoy appropriate training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Overall, I would like to stress once again that I thought the Committee's discussions were very constructive. I believe that these deliberations have brought a number of impulses for future debates – the key word: Upper-level reform – fertilizing, and I am very grateful to all the experts who have made themselves available and have sacrificed a lot of time to promote education in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8094	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. The clock is set to 10 minutes if desired.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! There would have been a lot to do with Mr Amon's comments, but I will nevertheless try to stick to the structure of the Committee's report in my speech. First of all, Mr Amon, we have discussed this several times: With regard to your analysis of the number of signatures, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the family's desire for people has only received more than 10,000 votes more than education. There the government has apparently seen enough reason to implement the demands of popular desire in many areas. So that alone cannot be a criterion for whether or not something is carried or not, otherwise in the area of family policy you should not have done much what you have done. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have read the Committee's report again yesterday; it is really encouraging in many areas, especially in the field of savings. But later on. Let's take a look at it in a row. I would like to deal with the parts relating to school. In the field of universities, Mr Grünewald will say something later. In cooperation between schools, the government repeatedly points out that Austria had been confirmed by the PISA study in a differentiated school system and that there was nothing better than after 4. Class folk school the important decision to make about the further educational path of the students. I have already mentioned it several times in the Committee, and I say it again now: The PISA study gives a clear answer. There are very few points in the PISA study where countries are explicitly asked to change something. And Austria has received this call from the PISA study, from the International Report, exactly where it concerns the question of where the differences in the performance of the students result. It has been clearly established that there is a very strong socio-economic breakdown in Austria. This means simply and simply that children from a higher social position, from families with higher incomes, with higher levels of education, with higher cultural participation have far better opportunities in the Austrian education system, and that this is a clear difference in international comparison. All nine countries, which are located before Austria in the central competence of reading skills, do not have differences to this extent between schools. That is why PISA's call is clear: Austria and Germany are countries where the average economic, social and cultural status of schools has a significant impact on student performance. The reduction of socio-economic segregation between schools is a possible strategy to address this problem. So it's relatively simple: PISA recommends starting from this early separation in primary schools and gymnasia and the subsequent social effects. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I was particularly pleased at the Committee when several EIA politicians proudly pointed out that there are excellent primary schools in rural areas. – That’s the way it is, not a question. You then said: Great! Their children went to primary school, and there it was quite different, because there were all the children who went to primary school. – What I said: Wonderful! If all children go to a school, what would you call this system? I would've meant something like that would be an overall school. – The ÖVP defended this grandly until then, but at the moment the big changeover came. Then it said immediately: It's not in the country, it's not in the cities! Please explain to me why a rural system is defended by the ÖVP and everyone thinks it should be there, but elsewhere it is not! Our approach to school cooperation is: We want to go towards a common school. We also want to come to an overall school on the basis of the results of the PISA study. But what is the case now is something else. In Graz, the school association Mittelschule is at risk. It will probably be dissolved because the legal conditions are missing because the allocations will no longer be made via the National School Council next year. It was a model in which primary school teachers and high school teachers were able to teach both school types. But the Council of State Schools has found that this allocation will no longer exist. In Vienna, we are faced with the situation that the cooperative middle school – an starting point at least – is being questioned again and there are no legal solutions. In practice, even what has been achieved so far is reduced. That's the central point. You can discuss the target perspective, but on the basis of ideological reservations you also question a system that has apparently worked in Vienna. You're gonna be hard on yourself! They will not lead parents to participate in a system of selection, segregation, and enthusiasm for it. If you are not also oriented to the requirements and wishes of those concerned, this system will be condemned to failure. I come to the next point where I'm going to stay a little shorter, at the top of my class. I am quite right to Mr Amon: It is not possible from one day to the other to reduce the number of students. Only: It's not uninteresting that you say the numbers of students are falling. - That's correct. This will be so in the near future as a result of demographic development. That is why we could say: Let us also try to gradually reduce the number of school students due to the declining numbers of students. But what are you doing? – We have been on the rise for two or three years. It is not a question of taking advantage of this effect of sinking, but of reducing the allocations to increase the number of school students. You're doing the exact opposite. They will have fewer students – and yet the number of students will rise! This is your policy, and you cannot agree with it because it is also completely educationally wrong. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There's a bearer's debt. I would remind you of what we discussed in the Committee, when you said that you were, at least as far as the problem classes – including you – are concerned in middle-level, vocational, higher schools, especially with regard to entry classes, where there are, on average, classes with well over 30 students – in the initial classes mostly around 36 – ready to discuss. However, there is nothing to be read about in the Committee's report! So I take you by the word that there will be a discussion on the solution of acute problems. – And we certainly agree on this: No student who is in a class with 36 students has something of it if there are much lower schooling numbers in a school 100 kilometres away and is therefore at risk of this school location. That can't be calculated against each other! As for these areas of problem, I expect that we will arrive at a solution in the near future – at least as a first step. On the topic of full-time vocational school: In our view, this is an additive measure which continues to make sense, for those who do not receive training. But here's the answer: They're supposed to go to a school, but a little too little. On the one hand, as I believe you rightly argue, in relation to a longer-term school, a three-year middle school, for example, that students who want to take lessons have rather little interest in another school system. That's correct. On the other hand, these young people are very likely to be interested in getting vocational training so as not to stand on the streets and have no chance at all. And here this perspective with teaching and relatively low qualifications is a little too little for me. That is to say, it is not about replacing the dual system, but rather about offering something extra for those who find no inclusion in the dual system. To the most interesting point: In fact, the teaching committee found that there were no cuts in education. – First of all, the example of the structural effect – it is probably a bit complicated to understand. In any case, the fact is: Even if 1 percent is increased, a reduction can be achieved at the end of the day, simply because the conditions are different. Just think of ongoing cost increases of 4 to 5 percent, where an increase of 1 percent in reality is by no means enough. Another example: If you have heating costs and you have no other way to get additional financial resources, it is relatively helpful if the budget remains equal or increases minimally as it has now been, while the heating costs per year increase by 4 to 5 percent. If you do not counter it, it means that it will become colder in schools by 4 to 5 percent a year. – This may work for a relatively short time. However, if you do this for five or ten years, then everyone will start freezing pretty much. This picture, as I think, is just too typical for what is happening in the Austrian education system at the moment. – Again: It is simply not enough to keep a budget on the same level or increase it to a minimum! But let's look at the practice, let's look at the "NO." In this it says that the savings pen very well hits the AHS! – The "NÖN" are really not a leaf that you could say would write links there, but it is about a newspaper that is actually located in an area where your party, Mrs. Federal Minister, normally has friends. The central topic is therefore also in the "Nederösterreichische Nachrichten": Savings for the AHS; the directors are frustrated. A few more points, which will happen in concrete terms next year: BRG Frauengasse in Baden – 138 units of value must be deleted. The measures to be taken: In English, there will only be more than three groups with 20 instead of 15 students at one school level. – You may be able to admit that this is not particularly targeted. In the event of further cuts, the legal provisions can no longer be complied with, according to the announcement of the director of the BRG Frauengasse in Baden. Further: Gymnasium in the Biondekgasse in Baden: 66 units of value must be deleted. That would be – together – all free-stocks, all free-boxes. So that this does not happen, there is the proposal to open only more classes with 29 students. That is to say, there are no more class divisions in foreign language teaching; Foreign languages are thus taught in large classes with 29 students in the future. For next year – Tabu-Bruch! – Announces the director there that it will be the first time that two sevenths of classes will be merged; the matura class will be reformed, and in the eighth class there will be a restructuring. Furthermore, the director said that – by the way, this is something I have warned of several times before –: "What fun, get away!" And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a central problem in the Austrian education system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Since I believe that the demands of this popular desire will not be implemented, I hereby make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8336	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, Dr Grünewald, has been duly signed and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Saviour. Proposal for a limit on speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8361	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, very warmly on your birthday. I wish you all the best personally and above all much strength for the important reforms in the field of education! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Education is one of the most important areas of policy. Education policy is responsible for ensuring that young people receive the best possible training, a training that addresses and takes into account individual skills. – I am glad that Mr Antoni von der SPÖ has also made such a confession today from this speaker’s desk. Extensive education enables young people to start a good career, a start that offers a perspective. That is why it is up to policy to ensure training through the creation of the best possible conditions. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Don't read! Who wrote the text?]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: On the birthday you open a poem!]] It is this area, Mr Cap, that requires constructive cooperation between all the forces. However, this very constructive cooperation will prevent you, because Mr Antoni would be very willing to discuss constructively with us, but you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, will again and again be squeaked back! And it's up to you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ( towards SPÖ) The poor Dieter!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] We liberals place great importance on education policy; I can certainly speak for the coalition as a whole. It was therefore natural for us to take this educational-popular desire to conduct a detailed discussion on the Austrian school system, on the Austrian education system. In particular, such a detailed discussion was necessary because the opposition, but also the left-left management, repeatedly tried to evade the education policy of the Federal Government in an unqualified way. In a truly irresponsible way – and will continue to be! – False messages colported, untruths spread and moods operated! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes, yes!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, you, Mr Cap, are using and instrumentalizing an area as important as education policy for your Party-politically motivated campaign against this Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You do this in schools, you do it at universities – you try to insure students, teachers and parents! The Greens are also taking part, for example, in sending brochures to all students' representatives throughout Austria. In one of these brochures, an article – I quote – reads: What to do against this government? And what's more, here's what I'm saying: The government has to leave, all right. But how? – We say that there is no idea that no one has ideas against the government. Somewhere they swirl around, the brilliant ideas; we just have to find them. And in order to encourage everyone to look for these wandering ideas, we now make a award: Ideas against the government are sought – whether realistic, feasible or just crazy. - Quote. Then, in this brochure, the Greens cite examples of the young people who should encourage the students to look for ideas – I quote –: We melt the glaciers and thus put Austria under water! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] Further proposal in this brochure of the Greens – I quote: We paralyze the computer systems of all ministries and offices! – And, Mr Leikam, something that should not be uninteresting for the Carinthian Members – I continue to quote: The Bärental – or even Carinthia – will be assigned to Slovenia! The fourth proposal in this brochure is more "genial" – quote –: We're pretending to blow the experimental nuclear reactor in the Prater, and if everyone's sitting in their bunkers, then we're making revolution! - Quote. This is the policy of the Greens who bring you to schools! – We reject that, because that is more than objectionable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! One of these trips was also this educational-popular desire, organized by socialist advance organizations, supported by the SPÖ, by the Greens, by the ÖGB, by the Chamber of Workers and other socialist associations. But thank God the opposition has failed with this attempt, and that is why it failed because the Austrians have looked through your motivation! The Austrians know very well that education policy in the hands of responsible politicians of a blue-black German government is well-informed! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, that is what we have clearly explained in the subcommittee that we have set up. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Your Papi doesn't say that!]] We carried out intensive consultations on three days. Over 80 experts have been heard. I would like to thank these experts for their input at this point. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Discussions have shown that the education policy of the FP/VP government is a responsible and forward-looking one. It is mainly because it sees education as an investment in the future. That is why in the 2002 budget, as Mr Amon has already said, this Federal Government has achieved the highest educational budget of all time with €8 billion. That is the highest amount there has ever been in the Second Republic. Every seven euros of the State budget is spent on education. Mr Cap! In relation to the red and black Federal Government of the year 1997, which also belonged to Mr Wittmann, who is currently sitting in the front, this does not mean an increase of one, two percent, as Mr Brosz says, but that is €1.2 billion more! 16.5 billion schillings more than under the red-black government are spent on education! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finance Minister Grasser has done this despite difficult budgetary situation and despite achieving a zero deficit – and not the same as you through debt making at the expense of future generations. That means, ladies and gentlemen – and I really want to stress that –: It is not a question of cuts in the educational budget, it is not a question of cutbacks, it is quite the contrary: This federal government is investing in the future of our youth! However, we also support courageous reforms in order to ensure a modern and competitive education system. We are also ahead of the text of education. We have launched a modern university reform. There is a modern and performance-oriented service right for university teachers. We will also continue these good reforms in the school sector. There will be an upper-level reform that will bring more autonomy to schools. There will be an upper-level reform that carries the idea of performance. There will be a high-level reform that will bring even more quality to our schools. This is a necessary step, and it means staying here at the ball. The opposition is invited to do constructive work. Mr Cap! Let my colleague Antoni join us. He knows himself – unlike you. You have never understood education policy, and you will not understand it either. Leave her to Mr Antoni! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It actually looks as if the SPÖ came out of the role of the fundamental opposition. I'm glad. At least Mr Antoni has already signaled this in the first preliminary talks. The first discussions on the upper-level reform were quite constructive. I expressly welcome this. I only hope that the will to build a constructive education policy in the opposition parties will actually develop. This would be desirable, because education policy is the wrong area to act in a party-political way. The result, ladies and gentlemen, is to return to the educational people's desire: The number of more than 174,000 signers despite the large advertising campaign of the red-green machinery proves that the Austrians also see it this way. Therefore, the educational popular desire to quote the "standard" has been floundered. To plump the popular desire had been put in place by the opposition against the government.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8537	Mrs. Gehrer, the Federal Minister, has spoken of the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8559	Mr President. High house! Education is the basis for the development of a society. Education, science and research are the foundations for the development of the economy. Every country investing in education, research and science represents the best course for the future. For this reason, the focus on education, science and research is particularly important for the Austrian Federal Government. I would like to thank all the Members of this House who have dealt intensively with the issues of education, science and research in many committee and subcommittee meetings, many surveys and discussions. I would like to thank all those who participated in the individual events. However, sometimes I am somewhat sad when I hear statements here in Parliament that do not at all agree with the discussions we have held and which I do not understand. That is why I ask the question, especially the scientific speaker of the SPÖ: Why do you call someone who sets himself qualitative criteria, who is employed as a mercenaries within the framework of a performance-oriented salary system at the university? I think it's sad! Why do you call a management that takes responsibility at the university something negative? I do not understand this at all, because management is necessary to move on and to enter the future! Why do you find it negative if we have a socially just system if we give those who really need it more funding at the universities if we also spend 450 million schilling for the promotion of students? Why do you find this socially just system negative? I think we're kind of talking to each other. I would like to stress once again: Students now contribute, but the majority of the costs for the entire study offer is still borne by taxpayers and taxpayers. I would like to thank Parliament for the fact that these costs are always covered in the budget and that they are also covered. If it is said by the Greens that education is now a commodity that has to be paid for, I have to say: That's not true, ladies and gentlemen. A student, a student costs the Austrian taxpayer – and I thank all taxpayers – 158 000 S or 11 531 €. We spend a lot in Austria for the students, and that is good! In Germany 130 000 S or 9 453 € are spent on a student. On average, 124 344 S or 9 036 € per student are spent on all industrialized countries. We spend most in Austria, and that's good! I thank all those who make it possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The educational population we are discussing today has shown in a very broad discussion, which is all important to us in the field of education. It has been agreed by the Greens that they should be able to implement the points of the people of education. I'll tell you: Many areas have already been implemented. Let's take a look at that! Let's look at the point of "free access to education"! – We have free access to education! Anyone who wants to be qualified can attend schools, can study any course of study, is supported. [[Abg. Brosz: He or she has to pay for it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You say you are in favour of a socially just system of student and study aid. - We got it! It is constantly being evaluated and constantly improved if necessary. That's good! Ladies and gentlemen! They require a service-oriented university service law. – We have submitted a service-oriented service right! I wonder why the opposition did not agree. Ladies and gentlemen! They take action against cuts and reforms. – There are no cuts, but we use the money responsibly! We spend more money on education! You ask, ladies and gentlemen: Where are the reforms in the field of education? . I will bring in a major innovation of the school organisation law in Parliament. I am curious whether you will meet your own request and then agree to these reforms. [[Abg. Brosz: These reforms are not!]] They are in favour of establishing a federal legislation for new forms of cooperation. The subtitles are entitled "General School". – I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: We don't want the entire school, we don't want this one-pot school! Look at Berlin in German federal states, after Hamburg, for example, where you have realized this undifferentiated total school! There are the worst educational outcomes there is, and many evaluations in Germany show that the worst is an undifferentiated overall school. [[Abg. Brosz: Nobody wants an undifferentiated total school!]] I have agreed with all the national school council presidents that they should present us with new school trial requests, both in Styria and in Vienna, because in the evaluation by an independent institute, what has now been evaluated has come out that these offers are not the best. That's why I'm saying: Make us better suggestions! Make You know this early enough so that parents also know what is offered in schools in autumn 2003! Ladies and gentlemen! They advocate the right to vocational education and training, to a full-time vocational school. – I say to you: I think the teaching is a very important part of our good vocational training, and I do not let it be broken down by full-time vocational schools! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I also want the speakers to mention the right numbers. I say to you the figures of March 2002: We have 3 388 job seekers and 2 823 open teaching places. We have created 2 000 additional places through the Youth Training Security Act so that young people who do not receive an apprenticeship can take part in a course. We still have 500 seats open. If I look very closely at how this lack of teaching places you are always talking about, ladies and gentlemen, then I note the following: There is the greatest lack of teaching places in Vienna. But here I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have the say in Vienna of the opposition: Please change something there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edler.]] It has often been discussed about the reduction in the number of students. In Austria we have very good averages, very good ratios between students and teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, the Austrian education offer is a good educational offer. We want to further develop it, and I invite you all to cooperate in this further development. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[11:13]] Announcement of an application for the establishment of an investigative committee
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8662	Before I call the next speaker, I announce the following: Deputies Dr. Cap, colleagues and colleagues, according to § 33 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure requested the setting up of an investigative committee to examine the following matters: Information on the accusations concerning cash flows and manipulations of the award procedure in the course of the award of the delivery order on radar installations to the Austrian Federal Army in 1994 and 1995. Enlightenment of a possible influence by the then Minister of Economic Affairs and the German Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslauf the award of the award to the company Thomson. Information of the accusation of acceptance of commission payments by persons involved in the award. Information as to whether any commission payments or manipulations of the decision-makers in the procurement procedure in connection with this situation, in particular, have been detrimental to the Austrian taxpayers. Study of legal and political responsibilities in relation to these matters. In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, proposed that a debate be held on this request. According to § 33 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure shall be debated and put to the vote after completion of the agenda. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8720	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to make a comment on the aspect of the Federal Minister's report: In my opinion, the difficulty of a milkmaid bill is to recognize that the most dramatic impact of the failure of your federal government in terms of labour market policy on the largest labour market in Austria, namely in Vienna. That's your failure, and that's your fault, and you can't push it off! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But back to the educational folk desire about what it is all about now: You have missed a chance in the discussion about the educational population desire. For the second time within a short time, you have missed the opportunity to hold an ambitious debate on the development of our education system. The educational-popular desire and the PISA study before it would have given rise to enough reason, because the individual demands of education-popular desire are precisely for this. Unfortunately, they have not moved in any single point. Unfortunately, they persist – and the current statements of the Federal Minister confirmed this impressively – in self-satisfaction. [[Call the ÖVP: Listen!]] If you listen, you could gain the impression that you are forgetting that it is about creating opportunities for young people to live, when we discuss education policy and when you say that education policy is a focus of this federal government. Anyone who only looks at some sort of thing sees that this is a weakness of this federal government, Mrs. Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There are many burning questions, many exciting issues related to the education system that would be content to discuss. For example, it raises the question of how we can make offers to the young people who are already in the preschool age. Here you represent the narrowed view that educational opportunities, early schooling opportunities are a nuisance, from which children can be kept for as long as possible, instead of finally starting to ask themselves the question, as in many other countries, as we can, as far as possible, to offer all children the best opportunities in the preschool age. – Unfortunately, this is not a topic for you! Once again, you have missed the opportunity to discuss how we can further develop the school system, namely developing it so that our children really benefit from the fact that the school system meets the requirements of the knowledge society, that the children like to learn that we do not waste the curiosity on them, and that as many children as possible get as far as possible on their education routes. The first question is: How can we develop the system in such a way that it meets today's and even tomorrow's demands? In the article already quoted, the "spiegel" writes a very correct principle, which we should also discuss: "The fact that modern educators should be more coached than 'be teachers' to their students; that the acquisition of solutions and viability is in doubt more important than the accumulation of quiz knowledge; that learning on the laptop and in the group offers more fun and incentive than buffaloing in the silent chamber." These questions are not a subject for all of you! Very bad! The next question that arises is: When Rings Are you finally going to comply with the principle that applies in almost all other countries, that as many students as possible must be taken as far as possible, rather than sorting out as many students as possible early as possible? – There you set the course! I would like to remind you of the discussion on the recording examinations, the forecasting procedure. They put the course in the wrong direction, in the direction, as early as possible to construct deadlocks for as many children as possible! The third question that arises is: How do we rebuild the education system in order to enable children to continue, in accordance with their abilities, and not to build on them due to weaknesses and to waste life? – They did not even come up with a small step to the concerned signers of the educational people’s desire. They have not even taken seriously the legitimate concern that the classes are increasing and that teachers have fewer and fewer opportunities to respond to the needs of individual children and young people. [[Abg. Vienna: Who's to blame for it?]] Another question that arises is: How do we improve the opportunities of young people to make vocational decisions in such a way that they have real opportunities for the future? How can we provide more advice, better advice? How can we give people opportunities for the future, who want to take up training in a higher school? – That’s not a topic for you! They see more and more young people being turned off in higher education schools. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In education policy, we are facing a very important set-aside. It is about whether we can finally take a path with this Federal Government, which means allowing fair opportunities for all children and young people, or whether you want to continue setting the course in the wrong direction by saving – you do nothing else, even if you deny it here – and building free access to education, because you can afford it in the future. Mrs. Federal Minister! Take, please, at last the educational people's desire and the petitions seriously! Take it as what it is: as the great concern of parents for the future prospects of their children! That's what it's all about! Take the question of future opportunities seriously for our children and young people! Our children and young people have a right to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8839	Mr Dr. Niederwieser spoke on an actual correction. – Attention You can do this with § 58 GOG! Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8864	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The Federal Minister, in her comments in the form of a question, submitted to me that I would call the university staff "Söldner". I'm actually putting this right: I never called the university staff a mercenary, but I said: The system of new service rights, the people who, regardless of their abilities, bring up and cancel their services automatically, is in line with the Söldner system. – That was my statement! I didn't call her a mercenary!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8903	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Brinek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e8924	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is the day of popular education, the day of Enlightenment, also information to my predecessor, Mr Kuntzl. Their windshield thesis, as far as the labour market situation in Vienna is concerned, is already a bit strange. Still bad data and the situation 8 to 1 in Austria, so eight federal states manage to do it, only Vienna does not make me thinkful. What does Vienna do for it? – All fees increase dramatically, from the channel fees to the tariffs for the use of the Vienna lines. So somehow there is a need for more economic policy effort on the part of the state government of Vienna. That can't be disputed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] They meant to discuss the many exciting questions raised in the course of this popular desire. But I have heard from your mouth essentially – don't be angry with me – many school-political stand-ups and placards, such as: Modern educators should strive to acquire solutions; opportunities and improvements for young people should be achieved; Opportunities for children in higher schools; new BHS should be built. My colleague from Upper Austria called me, and four new higher schools are being built in Upper Austria alone. That means where need is, it is also covered in an original, constructive, forward-looking way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Other federal states may also take an example of the above Austrian solution – I refer to the HTL in Grieskirchen. Mrs Kuntzl, if you quote the mirror, I ask for more differentiation. On the point "Learning on the Laptop": The MAS course at the Danube University Krems, which has worked on laptop classes, laptop learning, has established clear results. These are: It's not all gold that shines. There is the moment of reconciliation, the isolation when you sit on laptops. That is, if you want to get away from standbys and into qualified statements, you also have to read the studies on them. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: Did I say the kids should just sit in the laptop? - I didn't say!]] – No, only if you, as it were, dye beautiful after the motto that everything was bad in traditional teaching, laptop would replace everything, then I ask for differentiation. They have said that as many students as possible should not be led into a dead end. – In Austria, we have an education system that opens up a link to a secondary school for each school. We have closed the last gap with the professional maturity test. Thank you very much to all those who have worked: the Minister, the department, the department officials and all those who work on it constructively. Speaking of deadlocks in connection with the Austrian education system, that is a little far-reaching, very far, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah!]] Something else to add and remember. It has been said that we need to make a new cooperation law so that the school test results can finally be implemented. – The results are clear, I have just received them here in the written answer to my question. With regard to the cognitive qualifications of the students, school testing sites, regular locations: no difference! With regard to the so-called key qualifications, organisational tests, school tests, regular schools: no difference! Teaching of weaker qualified students in performance heterogeneous classes as in the school attempt: no difference from the other performance groups! These results are on the table. The Federal Minister has already mentioned it: New ways must be sought. 10, 15, 20 years of school tests at primary schools and schools from 10 to 14 years of age have produced a clear result. I don't need to read the PISA study across and across. I would like to come to another point which should not be misunderstandingd: The new policy in the field of the university was often addressed. In particular, the introduction of study fees would keep students away from education and, in particular, from girls. Again, a clearly stated information from the Ministry and reference to the expert statements in the Committee: On the basis of the current data, we cannot say that students who might have been students have withdrawn on the basis of the tuition fees or do not take up their studies. Further research is needed to do this. I can remember that in the Education Documentation Act, many have painted the devil on the wall instead of seeing the chance to develop, develop and analyze other conditions for the admission of studies to universities and higher schools. I can't remember that the opposition would have voted. Thank God there has been a majority in favour of this educational documentation law so that research can now be started in the department to investigate the reasons for any distance from the study. In this context, I quote section head Höllinger, who said in the Subcommittee of the Teaching Committee: "There is currently no statistical evidence that the introduction of the study contribution would keep women away from regular studies to a higher degree than men. And above all, there is no evidence at all that financial weakness would be kept away." These statements are on the table. We have increased the volume of scholarships: 450 million schilling. If someone went through the trouble and looked at when, from what height of family income, a family, a parent – father or mother – gets a scholarship for her child, then you would be relatively satisfied. Of course, there is always an increase. That is to say, the Committee's finding, because of family income, that no girl, no boy, no young woman, no young man should delete the study is right. We have provided for all these cases. Let me stay at universities at the specific moment of gender access and establishment! I accepted the brochure of the University of Vienna, which analyses the beginning of the study year 2000/2001. It is gratifying that, except for economics, women are at the forefront of the studies. She also shows, however, that among graduates – not only the beginners, but also the graduates – women clearly have their noses in front of them. This means that women are also in the forefront – again except for economics. This concerns natural sciences, humanities, humanities and social sciences, legal sciences and medicine. So we have to break our heads on this – just as Vizerektorin Moser writes in the accompanying letter – that the previous scientific ministers and previously established funding instruments are not yet enough. That is, I am pleased that the current instruments currently established are set out in the university law, but the mission goes to all of us to consider why women do not choose scientific careers. Apparently they are distracted by their double orientation from an offensive career plan. Why do they not trust in men's science to the extent that young men do? It is important here to work in, not to say, the study contributions are the reason that prevents women from going to universities. By the way: Wohlfahrt and Sturn have been informed about this, not least by Höllinger and by the data of the ministry that the girls are not to a greater degree than ordinary students who have remained away from their studies, as they tried to articulate. On the contrary: Among the students, there are 5 percent more girls in relation to the burgers and at the universities of science. The University of Innsbruck must be looked at separately in the sense of a solid analysis. Ladies and gentlemen! I conclude by summarizing: It is due to what Mr Niederwieser meant by "Söldner". I mean, we shouldn't use such pictures at all, then we don't have the duty to put something right either. Just as the Nuremberg funnel no longer exists in schools and the enticing frontal teaching is not the norm, so the offer of a study basket, where students can only pass by, is not a reality. It's about teamwork in the university, it's going to get even more of a team idea into the staff, into the scientific staff, into the professorship through performance agreements. It will continue to lie at the dedicated teachers in the schools to do a modern teaching, with and without laptop. This has proved us the PISA study and this has proved to us OECD studies. During this time, we should encourage students and teachers, pupils and students to complete the year of study constructively and dynamically and to be stimulated by good studies instead of commenting depressingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9025	As the next speaker, Mr Grünewald is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9047	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Brinek, it's amazing to know at what a higher age you can still learn so much information that you don't know where to go. However, I would like to come back to some comments from you. You said it was being thrown around with plattites. – Let’s just look at the title of today’s current hour: "The University Law 2002: new opportunities for teaching, research and students in Europe". That's a promise, that's a hope, but I don't see or see what I'm going to do with intellectually underfed arguments about how to achieve how to realize these opportunities. What kind of record is this when you start a debate about the educational people's desire here with a discussion about the canal guitars of Vienna? – I didn’t really understand that either. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not what I started! That was a replica!]] All right, all right. I come back to the discussions in the Subcommittee on Education. I noticed that the discussion was rather quiet, not insanely emotional, which one might regret in one case. There was a pure exchange of arguments – and this was true of us – without anything coming into motion. I've learned what the government has always said: Everything great! to say it Wednesdayly: All palettes! On the other hand, the critics who doubted that this would make everything great for the students, for their parents et cetera pp. – and also for university members. Now one can say that movement takes place for the government only if the critics come closer to the position of the Federal Government, agree on the Hurra spirit and say: Bravo, that's it! - But this is a one-way road! I would have liked to see some movement from the other side. There are a few more placards in my mind. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for correcting the costs per student with about 150 000 s a little further down after a few months ago, having claimed several times that each student would cost the state far more than 200 000 S, which was simply not a flattite, but a false statement which was made knowingly or ignorantly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it should be said that cheaper than students at universities are only folk students. AHS students are already more expensive and professional high school students than graduates of universities. So please, all the truth! There was another record, I think, in the programme "The Subject matter", in which the Minister of State also discussed the matter, but the record has come from someone else, not from her. The otherwise esteemed and quite competent president of Raidl University Council said: It is not up to poor Kapfenberg worker to finance the study of rich sons and daughters! – That is simply wrong and absurd! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not understand that a former party of education citizens, namely the ÖVP, does not know the simplest statistical rules and analyses that show that the lower income and the so-called middle class are net recipients in terms of free and free access to higher education. The middle and lower incomes are net recipients here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – Well, if you might already sleep after 10 am, I can't do that, but Raidl said it around 22.45 pm. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can now tell me what you want, it won't make it any more real. I would ask that arguments rather than anecdotes be put forward rather than conjecture. As far as I am concerned, these are two important points in the educational people's desire: on the one hand, the working conditions at the universities themselves, say: life, motivation promotion, the promotion of commitment, commitment and also creativity of young and older researchers. Of course one can say: new opportunities for young people, new opportunities for research! – Let’s look at the facts! All those young people who want to listen here today and once study at the university want to have some perspectives – no guarantees of being pragmatic from the cradle to the Bahre, but fair chances of career planning. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now, however, the right to serve is as follows: The length of stay of young researchers at the university is in the first pillar – that is what it is called, because it is already Greek-Romanic in this debate – just seven years. In other words, students often have a longer stay than their teachers at universities. Whether this is so insanely good and so insanely done, I dare to doubt. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But what is not to be doubted – and that is not what I have to say by government opponents, I have not heard of the opposition, neither have I heard of demonstrators and demonstrators, but of rectors, faculty chairmen, Senate chairmen, head of the institute; now I did not want to move to the masculine – the fact is that some calls have to be made several times. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Where there were three, four, five, six applicants in the past, one is already happy to apply for one, two or three. This has to do with the new right to serve, not with the biorhythm, with the climate, with the weather or anything else. This has to do with a little over €1,000 – so that all listeners can also understand: with a little over 14 000 S – people who do not work little in research and teaching. It's not all lazy. In the medical field, maximum working hours up to 72 hours per week are possible, 49 hours en bloc, i.e. without interruption. Up to the achievement of the specialist diploma, you will receive a net wage of € 1,000 for the regular 40-hour week. It has become a little more, that is right, but if you calculate the hourly wage, then you realize that this is not motivating, and appreciate that the women and men who go into this profession do not feel that. Let's see what the situation of the students is! There's always the flattites: Studying cannot be free! – It’s not free! I can tell you here a hundred times, you don't want to hear it, but the parents, the mothers and fathers, the students are supposed to remember this and keep to the government: When young people have studied, they pay back 90 percent of all transfers received by the state as academics. If the taxpayer and the taxpayer are thanked here, do I like it, it may save a tax reform debate if you thank everyone, but it is the parents of the students and the students themselves taxpayers – or do you think that only government members pay taxes and donate their pocket money for education and research? These are really flattites! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If Khol as a clubman also gives a flattite of itself – which is a bit narrow and dynamic and has the level of boulevard leaves – by saying: Unblemished into the future!, then I have to say, there's more to me: Gliding instead of hitzing!, because I do not want to go into any educational wall, into some research wall unabated. Perhaps the opposition would have the task of installing an airbag against such "accidents", an airbag that could be discussed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What happened to me when I discussed with the Federal Minister – for that I thank him, that was quite stimulating, longer conversations in the smallest and smaller circle – is: There's a lot in there. That is, I am not going to put it now, but I suspect, Minister of State, that you know more, see and understand than you may admit here and there. That would honor you, but more would we have if you could get through something from these fantasies I have now expressed – even I think sometimes in fantasies and hopes – then something would move. In the field of medicine – that is addressed to the liberals, but of course to you – you have reached a solution, although the Styrian state government – which is not far from your party, so as not to say that it is made up of the same, most of it, quite massively opposed. Mrs. Klasnic is not anyone. Whether I'm good with her or not, she's... - That's your wife's head of state. [[Abg. Steibl: No, she is our wife's head of state and lonely top!]] Read the statement of the state government to the Medical University! Read through what Vienna says to the Medical University and read through what the Tyrolean state government says about this measure! That's what I'm asking myself: Why did this have to happen? The head of the Rectors' Conference Winckler admitted to me before witnesses that it is probably true that 80 percent of university members and students are against this type of reform. I've never believed you're a woman of knee-falls, you're very rare, I think, just in extreme need, but if you do these knee-falls back and forth, you have to ask yourself if they're the right people to bow to and bow down to. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9158	The next speaker was Mr Graf. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9180	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! It is always very exciting to listen to my colleague Green Forest on educational and scientific debates. [[Abg. Oils: You can learn from it!]] You can learn a lot, especially from the parables he makes; he already compares the new service law or the university reform with driving and wishes Airbags. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That was Khol!]] But you wish the airbags! Mr Greenewald! I'm just saying so much: The language is also a little exposed. It's very bad when you start to believe your own party propaganda as a politician. It's very bad! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Brosz: With this you have experience!]] We see how difficult you really are to find sound arguments here, especially with regard to the report on the social situation of students from the previous period, in which one is noted – and I always bring it to this point – that the Firnberg’s reform has been a shot in the oven. She had a goal: Workers' children should be able to study! But the result was – I say it again and again –: Students had to work so that they could afford to study. As a result, one has produced or produced unemployed academics. This was simply a bad reform, which did not have a particularly good effect in the medium and long term. They always talk about plattites and want to close themselves to reality. An example is the right to serve: You know that the old law of service has known one, namely, the exploited university assistant. In a place that you have been tripped, quartered, feigned, university assistants with 150 percent work performance have been used, but only with 10 percent pay. That was the stand before the reform of the service law. You can't forget that! You must not close your eyes to that, but you must change it, and now you can break your head over the changes of course. We have proposed a new right of service and have also been implemented into reality, which in any case eliminates these abuses, which at last gives university staff in the field of teaching and assistants the opportunity to enforce their rights to their rights. Of course, that's not what you're saying. They also did not take the improvements seriously. There is just the difference between an assistant in training – part of his activity is training – and someone in a full-time life, and one has to take this into account. There's been some improvement with the doctors. Finally, the union – I stress it again and again – has carried this new right of service. You can't forget that. If you say that the academics would refund 90 percent of their caused costs through taxes, then I am glad that you are physicians and not mathematicians, although the mathematicians of themselves always claim that their science is the only one that is really accurate. Your parable would mean that anyone has to pay 110 percent on average. Now I ask you: Who's doing that? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The top three incomes!]] Obviously but not the academics. – That would be a pity, because it would have to be so that you have the chance to get to a better salary class. If you yourself say that on average they'd pay back only 90 percent in their working life, I have to say: That would also be fatal, because that would mean that the academics they produce will ultimately not be given a chance for better income. I therefore believe that your parable is simply not true, how at all diction and language are often treacherous, for example when you speak of the residence of students and employees at the university. I think this is the old division of a group from which you come as a medium-sized building representative. We assume that you want to do your job at the university and do it. We assume, of course, that you also receive an equivalent for the remuneration, and not that you are staying at the university, perhaps still in a pleasant atmosphere. It's supposed to play it all, but a stay at the university is too little for me. There one should also produce results, but with the mere stay there is no such thing. [[Abg. Oillingers: You've been at the speaker's desk for too long! Finally bring a performance to the speaker's desk!]] I now also take the example of car: Mr Grünewald and Mr Niederwieser! You have one as a real significant throughout the science policy: They give gas and brake at the same time, therefore do not come from the spot, are permanently on high-tours, but in idleness. That's exactly the problem with your science policy that you're running! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's how you have to see this: There is a great deal of fear being spread, popular desire is initiated, supported and similar that find relatively little rainfall. We are dealing with them in Parliament in the first place, not as we used to be under the old coalition, as science and education policy usually follows after 12 It was discussed at midnight. I can't stress it often enough: As many committees, subcommittees, discussions, surveys, plenary sessions on this issue have not yet been held in the second Republic at all at the first, most prominent place, as in this legislative period. Education and training, science, research and teaching are of enormous importance for this federal government and for these governmental parties, and this is also reflected in the... – results are of course also available! [[Abg. Oillingers: And the results and the achievements?]] Thus, we have had more graduates in Austria before the introduction of the study contributions. That's a result! I've always said, Not the number of students – in brackets: residence period; Diction Grünewald – is interesting in connection with the study contributions but the question of whether there is a decrease in the number of graduates. If it were so that the number of graduates would have fallen from a period of comparison, then of course the legislator would have to respond. But the opposite is the case: The introduction of the study contributions has brought about an enormous degree of graduation, a degree of academicism that has not been achieved in recent years. You have to take note of that! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The education policy of this coalition is therefore excellent and will certainly not be influenced by the propaganda and fear propaganda of the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9310	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9331	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There are different viewpoints, and I think that this debate shows very clearly what the blue-black German government in the school sector understands as an educational offensive. The answer is saves, shorts, rationalises or bring classes to oversource, instead of equal opportunities, instead of free access to education – to all educational institutions. Especially in the field of education, the inadvertentness of the current government becomes very visible – or perhaps it does not want any changes in the school sector either. Negotiations are being conducted, and instead of taking to heart the thousands of signatures under the educational folk desire and developing new concepts, the corset is stuck on the old and the corset is simply tightened. One of the demands of the educational population is the reduction of the maximum number of students. This demand for a class school maximum of 25 is supported by countless petitions and citizens' initiatives already introduced by concerned parents and teachers in autumn. You should take this to heart, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important point in looking closely at the concerns of parents and teachers. This is by no means paradoxical, as Mr Amon said, but paradox is that the number of students is generally falling, but the number of students is rising. As regards the backward family policy and the non-existent women's policy of the current government, the birth rate will continue to decline, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kampichler: She's getting up! You're not up-to-date!]] It cannot be denied – and it is also evidenced – that a considerable number of young people are sitting in classes that are overcrowded, in classes with 36 or more students. Especially dramatic – this has been admitted today – is the situation in the first classes of higher schools. What is the concept of the current government against these too high schooling numbers? – There is no concept against it, ladies and gentlemen! Instead of creating necessary places, instead of really thinking about the system school again, more children are pegged into classes that are structurally not suitable for it, and that is an unreasonable situation. In recent times, however, fears are constantly apparent that aggression among young people may flourish well under unfavorable conditions. So what can you do? – A sense of ambiguity indicates that interpersonal communication and interpersonal contact could help. However, this is only possible if the group is not too large, that is only possible if the time is available to practice conflict management in order to practice social skills. In overcrowded classes, this is simply not possible. The teachers are also unable to do this when the classes are so large. So: No individual care, but go through fabric and see that it remains calm. Disciplining and pipe staberl methods are the only – but in my opinion very counterproductive – measures that FPÖ and ÖVP can imagine. If there are other problems, then the class board could jump in – but that is not possible because his time has been rationalized. Interestingly, black trade unionists now call for an hour for the class board. The SPÖ was the one that warned of this step! It is thought that there are also the student counsellors and student consultants who could help – but this is not possible, because their time was also limited. Put yourself in the position of a youth who has just been 14 years old and is looking around his further career. He wants to go to a certain BHS, but unfortunately he's not taken. Why isn't he taken? – Not because his qualification does not fit, but because the government does not do anything to create enough places. But he doesn't stand there alone with this situation: Thousands of young boys and girls stand in front of them closed gates. This is a blue-black education defensive. But somewhere, he'll find himself, he says, but he won't be very happy, and he won't be very motivated. But who cares? But there is also the other possibility: A student who is 14 or 15 comes to a class where 35 to 39 other young people from different schools, from different environments, from different areas, origins and also with different knowledge sit. There is no doubt that it will not be possible in such a class to address the special needs and talents of these individual students. What happens after a year? – Around a quarter of these students do not make the climb to the second class. In other words, of four classes, only three are left in the second year. That's why I'm looking for you: Support the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Antoni and colleagues on the reduction of the maximum number of students! Do it for the students, for the concerned parents and also for the dedicated teachers! Thank you. [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9410	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Dr Antoni, colleagues and colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Grossruck. Your speaking time is adjusted to 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9436	Mr President. Highly esteemed Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I would also like to begin by congratulating you, but, in particular, not on your birthday, but on your excellent school policy, which you have made since your arrival as Federal Minister in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a woman here as a minister of education who is alive. Whoever was at her birthday party yesterday and saw her CV – a pity that it was no longer – will probably change his mind something, especially when he belongs to the opposition, for the Mrs. Federal Minister is a woman of practice: She taught herself and at the time had 50 children in one class. – So who better knows that this is not the ideal condition when many children are in a class, and you have to try to create an ideal state? [[Abg. Swimmling: The times have changed!]] Also the social commitment of our Federal Minister, whether in Albania, South America or elsewhere, proves that she is a woman – and I can really say that – who lives with both legs, who also lives what she does. This also guarantees us that we can expect a proper, forward-looking education policy from it. – The evidence has been provided, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am now trying to understand the arguments of the opposition – of course you have to find ideological access. The Marxist-materialistic world view, which seems to be important to the opposition's school policy, states: Man is matter, as such he is formable and feasible. So we can shape it! – The society, the collective, assumes responsibility over the individual. Make equal, turn on the same, be equal: This is the educational brush haircut for all. The same groups of kindergartens, the same groups of children, the same primary school, the same total school and so on. In view of this, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I understand that these proposals come here, only: That's not ours! We do not want an educational brush haircut, which is the same for all, but our access derives from the Christian-social world view, which looks at humans in essence and dignity, but in the qualities, in the talents, in the gifts. Self-responsibilities should be promoted, equal opportunities replaced by equal opportunities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Do you even want a haircut?]] That, ladies and gentlemen, is an educational hairstyle that fits the individual! No socialist-green lawn mower education policy, but Christian-social talent promotion – this is our access! That is why we do not understand that if you want to link education policy with the school as a whole. With Engelssungen, with Samtpfoten, with shawls tones, you want to impress on us their introduction. Your foreign exchange is as follows: Let's try it! Perhaps the cooperation between primary and secondary schools is legally anchored! That's what it said on your part in the committee. – We do not need legal anchorage! This already works where it is possible, and where it goes. But you want to introduce the entire school through the back door. We say a clear no from our understanding of education policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, want to complement dual training, our excellent dual training – our apprentices win professional Olympics worldwide – with a so-called full-time vocational school; first of all, because the goal is to replace it. - We don't want that! We say that we have excellent dual apprenticeship training, which can be improved, but which cannot be replaced by another, worse form of training. Ladies and gentlemen! We all agree that society needs different gifts in different professional groups. We need craftsmen, we need workers, we need technicians, we need scientists, we need service providers, we need automechanics, and we also need university professors. That's a variety we need! I say to Mr Niederweiser at this point – unfortunately, he is not in the hall –: Dear Dutchman, I'd like to listen to a speech from you, perhaps a expertise on education policy, but I wouldn't let you repair my car! This means that we very much need the diversity in our society: such people who work manually, who are trained to have the talent for it, and those people who have the talent to work as scientists, as university professors. This is our access we want and need. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Listen But with the Mart and with the uncertainty of the Austrians, the study fees would prevent access to the study! The fact is that everyone who receives a scholarship also receives the tuition fees. This means that anyone who is entitled to a scholarship in Austria will also receive the tuition fees; he does not have to pay them! I would therefore like to say this so clearly, because it is obviously not enough to say it once more, because the false claim comes again and again: In Austria, the educational emergency breaks out and you can no longer afford to study! - No, it's not! Expenditure on scholarships increased by 30 percent, with more grants being paid by 30 percent. This, ladies and gentlemen, is an educational and social achievement that needs to be seen. Mr Grünewald, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, obviously misinterpreted Mr Raidl. He also told me I'd sleep at 10 o'clock in the evening. This is the arrogance of the Greens who believe that only they would have invented the world and the opinion of everyone else was nothing. – It shouldn't be like that! Mr. – arrogant – Dr. Grünewald! I can tell you that I have followed this discussion very closely. Director-General Raidl said he didn't realize that a worker with his tax money is financing his, Raidls, boys' studies. And he also said that if the rich paid study fees, there would be a chance that those who can't afford it would get even more. – That was the statement of Director-General Raidl, not the wishful interpretation of Dr. Grünewald. Let me conclude, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard no again today, no, no, everywhere there is a No – I end with a four-liner: The program of our comrades could no longer be shorter, they proclaim it unhindered, it reads: No, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9543	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking on behalf of the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9565	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with the educational situation in Austria, with the desire for education and the countless petitions and citizens' initiatives that have taken place in recent years on this issue. In the entire history of the Committee on Petitions, it has never been the case that there have been so many citizens' initiatives and petitions on the same issue, and that speaks for itself. This means that the interest in education and, above all, the Minister of Education, in reducing education in Austria, as it has been operated by the Federal Government in recent years, has never been so great. I would like to point this out by a few examples, so that you can simply know why citizens had to take advantage of the opportunity to bring citizens' initiatives and petitions here in Parliament and start a popular educational desire. Mrs. Minister! I am, as you know, a representative of the disabled, and I have to say that integration of disabled people in all areas of education is a very important concern. For disabled people, Mrs Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no equal opportunities, there is no right to that education which the individual wants to complete for himself. They have not made any progress in recent years in terms of the integration of people with disabilities, but they have managed to reduce the education system for disabled people in a row and make it impossible for more and more children with disabilities and their parents to benefit from their right to integrative education. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister! You've done something unique. They say it won't happen if you "swallow" disabled children. – Disabled children have a right to education! I know there's no more teachers who "sling" kids, and I wish it never came back. It is about integration and the right to equal opportunities, Mrs Minister! They said education was the basis for our society. – Disabled people are also part of this society, and they also want to use this unlimited right to education for themselves. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] So when it comes to social rights, fundamental rights, you must force integration into schools and must not constantly hinder them. I would like to talk to another area, which is pretty slowly devastating in Steyr – I am from Steyr. You will not know, Mrs. Minister, but more and more school classes in Steyr, especially in the AHS and the BHS, are no longer being taught in school, but in containers. In winter it is cold, the children sit in Anoraks, half of the class gets sick – and what happens, Mrs. Minister? Nothing! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! I would like to tell you, I too have been among the weak for years, and the greens have given me the chance to develop my strengths. Now I play a role in supporting the weak so that they can develop their strengths. People with disabilities need to be strengthened, indictable rights. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I ask you to: Create They are a federal disability equalization law, and now, because only people with rights are people who are also recognized in this society. That must also be the goal of this Federal Government! - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] 12. 12
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9640	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9661	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Huttonen, I would like to briefly tell you a story from last summer, which I experienced in Guatemala: There I saw in a clay hall a teacher who taught about 120 children in four different directions of heaven on four tablets. This has not been an example for me, as you can believe me, but perhaps you, Mrs Muttonen, have reported on the school situation there, because I think you really talked about another country when you spoke about Austria's school system. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] There is a school in the back of Jonsbach-Graben, for example, with six students, three of whom are the children of the teaching teacher couple. This is certainly an extreme case, but if one makes demands for the maintenance of small and micro-schools, which is even formulated in applications, Mr Antoni, then one must also have such situations in mind and also calculate the taxpayer, which, for example, costs the taxpayers of these three children of the director's couple. A solution will be found, so everyone has made a great effort. It is also not to be said against the small structure in principle, but if, for example, one argues with the flat-rate requirement for a maximum number of 25 students and does not take note of long, interesting subcommittee consultations that the demands discussed in this popular desire are in fact largely fulfilled and fulfilled if free access to school is required – it is present – if a socially just study aid system is required – that is, it is present – if petitions are introduced for a service-oriented university service law, where the secondary principle is that it should enable continuous careers – that is what we have created – then it must be said: Of course, you can't do everything at the same time! We all know the effects of this Pragmatization system on our universities. If you are against cuts in education, you are entitled to the flat-rate requirement. – There are these cuts, as you know from the figures, in general not, in detail such may occur, but it is a matter of school autonomy to design the teaching and distribute the units of value where we would have liked them. I would rather have them in the sports sector, Mrs. Federal Minister, that is to say, because it is actually the case that school lessons are first and foremost deleted in non-binding exercises and voluntary services in the field of sports. Now to the next point: The maximum number of students. Mr Antoni! You meant we should have listened to Professor Schilcher. Professor Schilcher said there was no demonstrable link between class size, student performance and educational output in science. He said that, you and me. To put that to the point now and not to stop at the current split rate of 20.9 is simply unscrupulous. It should be noted that primarily the quality of the teaching of the respective teacher, the family environment and the teaching materials make up the teaching result and that it cannot be traced back to the number of students. If you look at the international figures and OECD studies in this regard, you have to say: We have an excellent situation! I wish we could continue to afford this school system in this quality. You have indeed not made it easy for us to do so with the financial ballast you left us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9713	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9734	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has been said about the so-called PISA study during the discussions on education-population. Although the interpretations are partly different, it is clear that the states that are at the very top of this study also have a very high social product. We can only maintain our high standard of living in Austria with a high standard of education. All over the world, ladies and gentlemen, where education is privatized, the level of education is falling because many cannot afford a privatized, cost-effective education. Therefore, the introduction of tuition fees and the non-valorisation of student allowances are steps in the wrong direction in education policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, the education system has to be constantly questioned, it has to be optimised again and again and always has to meet new demands from society. There is consensus about this in our society. However, opinions are very wide-ranging when it comes to the question of how much the education system is worth to the state and what families need to do to train their children, what adults should and should contribute to their further education. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that all people in our state should have the same educational opportunities. Study fees and other restrictions should therefore be rejected. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, it is also structural weaknesses that have geographical causes to be eliminated. As a Tyrolean, I was very concerned when Professor Olechowski of the Institute of Education in Vienna in the Subcommittee of the Teaching Committee explained that the population in the conurbations of the Western Länder, but especially the population in rural areas, is severely affected by educational policy or by the organisation of schools. I can sing a song of that, ladies and gentlemen! For example, if you are going to school in Zillertal, where you want to attend a gymnasium, you already need a three-quarters to an hour journey time if you live in the back Zillertal. It might be worth just a hand movement for you, but that's a problem for these kids. [[in the direction of the Abg. Amon]] If you have learned a profession, Mr Amon, and want to complete a second educational path, then you have to leave your native country and move to the capital of the country, and that is not all educational policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The abolition of tuition fees is an important measure in order to reduce barriers. If this government, as well as the speakers of the government parties, repeatedly emphasize that these fees do not have an impact on access to education, I would like to say that I am convinced that this will make it difficult for students whose parents have lower incomes to access the universities; I am now also talking about the students who are working. Because you always claim that the number of female students has not changed significantly as a result of the introduction of the tuition fees, I call Innsbruck as an example: [[Abg. Amon: More women!]] 20 percent less female first-scribing at the University of Innsbruck! That's a significant number, that's fact, and that should also be a warning signal for you. 20 percent of women enrolled at the University of Innsbruck in the winter semester 2001. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Amon: There's a plus with the female students, no minus!]] Ladies and gentlemen! With the policy of this government, comes again a time when – and this is my fear – above all the Beliefs and not the talented will study at the universities. If we know – and this is what we all know from the report on the social situation of students – that almost 80 percent of students are employed, then we have to conclude that this group of students – and that is really the majority – is not the lazy ones – has not been taken into account at all. [[Abg. Amon: We have a third degree scholarship...!]] Mr Amon, we have introduced the degree scholarship at the time, as you know. [[Abg. Amon: No, this government!]] You raised it! – It only takes effect if you conduct your studies full-time and do not give up your profession. Many want to study and work. Take note of this at last! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Now to the doctoral studies: There are a lot of people who take a degree and then think about completing a doctoral degree in addition to the work. That's good, that's right. But it is precisely for these people that the situation has now occurred that, because, of course, they need to pay longer for the dissertation next to the work, instead of 20 000 S, for four semesters, now perhaps 60 000 S, just because they need longer. They pay taxes and tuition fees – "very fair"! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: What kind of upsets you?]] – I’m very upset because that’s unfair. The persons concerned are paying taxes, often since they were 15. In addition, they have completed the second course of education and also pay even more tuition fees, because of course the study takes longer. – That is not fair, Mr Schweitzer. That's the opposite of justice, that's unfair! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I therefore make the following requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9917	The two by Mrs Mag. Worm-readed motions for resolutions are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9941	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It is probably clear and clear that it is easier to work with a smaller number of students. Easier, I say, but that doesn't mean that the teaching is automatically better and the students learn more. An adopted ideal, a wishful state of teachers and parents are small classes, a myth the equation: Fewer children are more education per child! There is certainly no link between class size and learning; this is evidenced by studies, for example the most recent at the University of Koblenz-Landau on mathematical achievements at the eighth level or by the University of Marburg on cognitive performance, and the first evaluations of current school statistics in Austria confirm this. I personally am not surprised by these results. I know big and small classes from my own education. In my opinion, efficient class management or the quality of the class has always depended mainly on those who teach there and not on whether a class was larger or smaller. In some cases, the maximum number of students, especially in the lower classes, was far above today's standard, yet there were excellent degrees and a high level of education and large group membership. I know you're just trying to conversate with quantity again: The teaching material has increased, the problems have grown larger and so on. As always, mass is argued, with teaching material. This is clearly too simple for me. It must be looked in more differentiated terms. The student's willingness to perform, his interest, his social origin are just as important as a teacher's "burn", the interest in the teaching material to be taught, the enthusiasm for the opportunity to teach young people something, to give something on which to build their future. If you ask talented people, great researchers' personalities according to their school history, you almost always get similar answers: A charismatic teacher was the fascination of the type of knowledge transfer. We can turn it as we want, it comes to the teacher, to the like of teaching and to the commitment, to the ability of the mediator and to the interest and attention of the recipient. Mein Ladies and gentlemen! Apart from the fact that the average number of students in compulsory schools is far below 30 today and we have a very good student-teacher relationship, especially in rural regions, there are some difficulties in some areas of the sub-level of the AHS or in agglomeration centres, and this should not be overlooked. In some cases, teachers have to do with extraordinary conditions, including the integration of foreign-speaking students, but also here there are extremely capable teachers who address these problems with full commitment; I know some of them personally. In addition, we have the possibility of accompanying and supporting teachers, of compulsory subjects in the AHS, of group divisions in the BMHS, of performance groups in the HS and other flexible possibilities within the framework of school autonomy, and this usually leads to teaching situations with fewer students. Ladies and gentlemen! Trust in the skills and excellent training of our teachers, their motivation and our support for their difficult work, especially in agglomerations, must be a priority for us. The question of the maximum number of students must always be kept in mind. It must not be played down, but should not be overrated or played up, as it is now partly done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e9992	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10014	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are discussing the legitimate demands of education people's desire and the need for reforms in the education sector for our youth. If, as a result, we were to vote on whether a part of the 15-year-olds in our country should be excluded from a training offer, we would, I hope, reject it with determination and, as far as my group is concerned, reject it. We, the Socialist Group, do not want to have a single fifteen-year-old on the street, but we want all fifteen-year-olds to be in schools or in establishments in a training association. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, this decision and this clear position are not always visible outside the House in the government policy of FPÖ and ÖVP. Mrs Gehrer, you have also been criticizing Vienna in your previous remarks; I have, at least, taken it that way. The biggest lack of teaching places is in Vienna, you said. But you have not said who is the address of your criticism. Is this Vienna's urban policy, or is it the Vienna economy? [[Federal Minister Gehrer nockt]] I take your nick away from me that Vienna's urban policy was meant by it. To this end, I can tell you: Currently 744 apprentices are trained by the city of Vienna. 267 new apprentices will be added in autumn. The city of Vienna is one of the largest apprentice trainers in our Republic, and yet you practice criticism of this policy. - I'm not saying anything about that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But if these criticisms were to go towards the Vienna economy, because we have too few teaching places, I would have to, and perhaps not always expect a trade unionist to do so, fairly protect the Vienna economy a little. It offers many non-Vienna apprentices training places, namely apprentices from the surrounding area, from Burgenland, from Lower Austria, and even from Vorarlberg there are those who do not find a teaching place there, Mrs. Federal Minister, and learn to come to Vienna. It's fair to say that, too. This has come to my attention. Ladies and gentlemen! In Austria, we have more job-seekers and less open apprenticeships than in the previous year, we have more and more holes in the shelter network ordered by the blue-black majority for young people, and we again had to take note of a large number of rejections from young people in the secondary schools. That has already been pointed out. We are also experiencing a sharp rise in the number of unemployed young people aged 15-25. But we have a government that is watching, waiting instead of acting and taking reforms. As not only the ÖVP – as one has heard in recent days – is said to be the brake group in the government, the ÖVP is said to be the brake group in the government – but in my opinion, the FPÖ also inhibits with full force. The two government parties agree on brakes in the field of education. Ladies and gentlemen! It's become fucking hard to find a place to teach a child. [[Abg. Neudeck: Where?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Where? The climate has created the courses, I can remember! Euroteam!]] This experience makes many parents in these weeks. Some had hoped that the massive reduction in the additional wage costs for apprentices would create apprenticeships. Unfortunately, this has not occurred. In many sectors, there are fewer apprentices than before. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Go, stop reading this!]] . The calls made by Mr Schweitzer are of no use either. The truth is as I say! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Two claps! Sensational!]] But we have learned the following from the situation: A reduction in additional labour costs does not create jobs. Mr President, this statement does not fit you, I see it to your hand movements, but it is. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The conditions!]] The best proof of this is the situation among apprentices: The additional wage costs have been reduced, reduced, reduced – and there are still too few teaching places. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why doesn't the roof cover go on the roof?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Do you write "teaching places" with two "e"?]] What we urgently need is a complement to dual training. We therefore propose the setting up of vocational schools, of full-time vocational schools, as was done in the Committee's deliberations on popular desire. This would compensate for the insufficient willingness to train the economy and ensure the provision of continuing training with professional qualifications for all young people. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: What? The economy is not ready to negotiate?]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: This hurts my ears!]] Mrs. Gehrer has said that she cannot be broken down by full-time vocational schools. That was her formulation. – Mrs. Federal Minister! Our proposal, the proposal of the Social Democrats, to establish a full-time vocational school as a complement to teaching and not as a substitute for teaching, is a proposal that we ask you to continue to discuss with us. I would like to stress once again: We want young people in schools and in businesses – and not on the streets! We want young people with a future, and we do not want young people without a future!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10197	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hetzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10219	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Here again and again, the argument is that tuition fees are something so horrific and unsocial that they really prevent students from starting or conducting studies at all. [[Abg. Heinzl: Exactly!]] I claim that there is no fee in Austria for which the persons concerned are as insured as for these tuition fees. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Look You're looking at the arguments and components that support this! We have a pot from which scholarships are paid that is as high as ever. This has already been mentioned several times today. But the private sector has also come up with the plan. For students, banks have developed plans that allow them to finance their tuition fees with virtually free of interest or extremely favourable loans. It has also been shown that, on average, students have much higher incomes than other professional groups after completing their studies. That is why I think this is also a good idea taken up by the banks and money institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! Again and again, you claim that the tuition fees must be paid, but there is no consideration for this. – Not only that this argument is not true, but you also expose yourself to it, because you claim that there has been no return at a university so far, even in the time when you were in government. I'm telling you, there's a counter-performance, and it's also okay that 5 000 S or 363 € per semester are paid at the university. In Austria, anyone can study, which is will and which is also suitable for a study. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who can afford it!]] With the new university law, there will also be further development. The shortcomings that have existed in the past will be eliminated. We are very proud of this, and we are also pleased to have played a decisive part in this development. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I ask you: Is a fee social if they do not have to pay children of Mr Elsner or of all Elsner, who exist in Austria, who are millionaires also in euro amounts? Is this fee social if, for example, they don't have to pay multimillionaires in Austria? The following argument has already been mentioned several times: the retransposition. Does a worker from Kapfenberg have to rework his financial resources in order to be able to afford studies for rich people? – I think the comparison is not quite appropriate. It is, in fact, true that the tax pot, in which all numbers are included, is ultimately compensated precisely by these measures – study contributions, scholarships. I think that is also very useful and useful. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] To reduce the number of students: They claim that there would be a social exclusion based on their view that there is no financial means. – I would say that it is an adaptation to the actual conditions. We had drop-out rates of up to 50 percent. Now we have declines in the number of students who are well below this value. I say: Now all those who also want to do so are studying seriously, who also want to come to a conclusion seriously. This gives rise to a very natural conclusion, because all those who want to study seriously can and will be able to do so in Austria in the future. I am therefore not concerned about the Austrian education process either. Just compare the study fees with many other fees that need to be paid in adult education, for example! Much too high, for example, is the price, which costs for example in the WIFI Graz a controlling course with 168 hours: 1 890 € or 26 000 S. Or: A marketing course costs 1 235 € or 17 000 S. That's a lot of money that has to be paid for it! These are, of course, market prices, and therefore it is also legitimate that every student in Austria should pay a small share of the training costs, in total, €363 per semester.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10295	The next speaker was Mrs Schasching. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10316	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by my predecessor: We believe that the study fees are unsocial and unfair, that they lead young people into debt cases in advance, as a previous speaker said, and we therefore reject them. I can assure you: If we will be able to do so after the next elections, we will abolish them! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also important for me to note that, as in the Committee debates, we have taken very seriously the demands and objectives of the educational population and the many citizens' initiatives and petitions, that we have not only discussed them in a very detailed and expert manner, but have also made the effort to give you the opportunity to join the demands of the educational population with appropriate requests and thus to express our will to implement these demands. The debate alone is not enough, but it is about implementation! That's why we made ourselves strong! It is a concern to the citizens' initiatives to make it clear here how much the people in Austria are concerned about the loss of their children's chances in the education system that is currently in place. This has, for example, led to a citizens' initiative in St. Pölten. Thus within a very short period of time, within a few days, 1,600 people have signed for ensuring the high education standard in Austria. These people who signed this demand at the time can be certified with great wide-ranging views and almost bleak abilities, because we are actually in a situation today where savings and quality losses in the school system are proven to be present. I'm counting a lot of it here to document what's been missed. There are no classes of heavy-duty classes in schools. – This is quite a remarkable fact from the point of view of the violence debate currently under way. There are no consultants. – This too is a remarkable fact in view of the current debate on violence in schools. There's a lack of logopaedia teachers. – There is only one instead of four. There's a lack of healing classes. – Five were before, now it's only two. There is no staff reserve. – This means an extreme deterioration in the situation on site, in school! If there is no qualified replacement within the staff, if a teacher fails, hours often also fail. This too is a loss of quality in school! There is also little more sufficient resources for funding education "German for foreigners", and there are too few hours for integration. All this is happening to the local people, specifically in the capital of St. Pölten. All of this affects the people and their children who signed the citizens' initiative there. I therefore believe that it is very necessary to join the demands of education people with a little more commitment to implementation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to focus on extreme savings in Lower Austria at the AHS in the next school year. It's known, it went through all the media. What will happen there is the following: When units of value are deleted, in large numbers, this means that exactly those hours are lost that make schooling especially joyful and funny for the students, namely all non-binding exercises, the inclination groups and so on. All of this is a sacrifice to the spasm! That's where you're wondering: What kind of school do we want to provide for our young people? Don't we want there to be a little more pleasure in learning instead of frustration? Do we not want young people to be able to compensate for daily sitting and hours of learning in the more sporty groups? – All these are important components, all of which belong to the school and create a joyful balance for daily learning. Unfortunately, all this is drawing a picture of today's school, as we don't want it to. Not only do we want to discuss savings, but we want to discuss changes for the future. We want – and that is quite clearly said – a quality discussion about a modern school where team ability is to be developed, where the desire for learning, where self-employed, self-employed learning is to be the priority, and where the independence of young people needs to be promoted. All these things are only possible through appropriate teaching methods. However, these methods and possibilities in a modern school cannot be achieved with the aid of the savings pen, but only if we are able to provide the hours that teachers need for these methods. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return once again to the demands of the educational people's desire to call for cooperation between school types – a demand that I particularly like to join, because I believe that the model of the cooperative middle school in Vienna is a very good model, a very direction-setting model, and especially a model borne by all parties. It is true, however, that this model is currently at risk, if the school experiment cannot be extended further. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Join this motion for a resolution – for the benefit of all our young people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10446	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Dr Antoni, ladies and gentlemen, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Prince, I should like to speak. The speaking time is gladly set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much more Austrians than the opposition is right are satisfied with what is done in the education sector. Despite massive advertising, especially through the SPÖ, the educational people's desire had only a rather modest turnaround. The Austrian population is satisfied with the supply of education and the work done in this sector. This probably has several causes, for example, the fact that every seventh euro spent on public expenditure goes to the field of education, that there are many dedicated teachers who see in their profession much more than simply a duty-fulfilment, that there is a fair system in the area of student and study aid, that the dual course is simply the better and that our school system is permeable. Those who bring with them the necessary conditions, such as talent and a certain willingness to do so, have all the possibilities, especially through the improvement of study aid. To ensure that those students who really want to do their studies quickly can do so, some universities will have to act a little faster. Perhaps some responsible ones should ask themselves much more often how something can go than always want to explain why it can't go. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to give you some thought to the field of primary school and AHS sub-level. I can't identify with expert statements that make it a disadvantage that in rural regions almost all schoolchildren are moving to primary school. The level of primary schools in rural regions can be compared to the AHS sub-level. The many maturants with primary schooling from the 5th to the 8th. School level proves this. Ladies and gentlemen! The Vienna primary school problem has to be solved in Vienna. It is primarily an image problem, but in the second place, of course – which is an essential factor – it is due to the politics of the city of Vienna. For many years, it was tried to bring as many pupils as possible to the AHS sub-level to save expenses from the state of Vienna or the city of Vienna and to overwhelm the federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Education is a valuable asset. Education, of course, costs something. It will therefore be necessary to include in the discussion those responsible, for example, for maintaining school, i.e. the communities and the cities. These are included. In some areas, we may need to become more flexible in the future. I am thinking, for example, of the question of small schools and of the maximum number of students. It must be a common goal to obtain as many small schools as possible, even if they may only be run two or three-class. Ladies and gentlemen! The intensive discussion at three subcommittee meetings showed the following: Austria does not need to fear an international comparison in the field of education. [[Complementary of the Abg. Witchlands.]] We in Austria stand well. The fact that this is so is the merit of many people who work very hard in this area. In order to maintain or improve our good standard, it takes the commitment of every individual. Education, further education and training are very diverse, free according to the motto "various rather than simplicity." Our Federal Minister Gehrer progresses daily with a good example. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10546	The next speaker was Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10567	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is a popular desire, namely the desire for education, more than 173,000 signatures by Austrians, and none of you, no speaker, no speaker, has said today: I take note that 173,000 Austrians are thinking about the education system in Austria! – It's clear to you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Amon: Yes, I said that!]] [[Abg. Kiss: The Amon said that!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They voted in favour of three subcommittee meetings. They wanted to do this in a single session, with not much time to discuss. You have also allowed our request to discuss 20 hours very tenuously. But we did it, and we have really invited good experts to these subcommittee meetings. These were wonderfully prepared, but you have hardly taken note of their contributions. [[Abg. Amon: You have not exhausted your speaking time in committee!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now we have a committee statement, and I say that this committee statement sounds like the chronicle of a announced death, because you have buried all six demands made by the exponents. That's what you heard today. No point and no addition has been taken note of and changed by you, let alone fulfil any content claim. 173,000 people have You ignore it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Since you have repeatedly stressed that every seven euros flowed into the education system, I recommend that you look more closely at the PISA study, because it is also clear that every seventh Austrian student can hardly read! This is also the case in this OECD study, and therefore the question of quality and quantity is already well justified, and you should ask this question: how efficiently you maintain the education system in Austria, since you always say it is so good. It really testifies to me of fundamental ignorance – allow me to say this word – namely fundamental ignorance towards those who are standing on the street and who have no teaching place. [[Abg. Großruck: This is a new word creation! We have to put that in the...!]] – Mr Grossruck, you said at the subcommittee meeting: Either I'm going to work or I'm studying! [[Abg. Großruck: I didn't say that!]] For both of you, I don't understand that, but you'll probably understand it better. Every third youth, Mr Grossruck, is on the street, has no teaching place. In his speech on the situation of the nation, the Federal Chancellor also devoted a chapter to youth, in connection with violence and events in Erfurt. He said: Look and don't look away! He said: Listen and don't listen! Politics has a difficult responsibility here. – No matter how secret and encrypted this may be, it is apparently so that you do not want to hear these words or do not understand them, because you do not actually let them follow any acts as you have heard all morning. I invite you to look and listen, ladies and gentlemen, because the situation of the unemployed young people is really not funny, and I want to tell you about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Saviour.]] – Proposals are also coming, Mr Rüdiger Schender, you can wait. I shall always make proposals when I speak in these debates. I think we all agree when I say: The right to education also means the right to training for all young people in our country. But with you, these young people have no training guarantee. The sad fact is that there are 3,400 young people who already exist, not only in autumn, without teaching. For example, the AMS Leoben does not have to offer a single open position, and more than 200 young people are looking for work or a teaching position there. We have invested a lot of power and energy in recent years, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, and we have also spent a lot of money on creating this offer for all young people, and we have succeeded. With costs of 1.9 billion Schilling, we have provided 4,000 young people with a training place. Since 1997, the economy has also received many reliefs in order to provide an incentive for job seekers to take up apprenticeships and train apprentices: for example, the exemption from accident and health insurance, for example a tax exemption for the first and for the third year as well as a tax-free amount upon completion of the apprenticeship. This has cost 6 billion Schillings since 1997, and a thousand young people more than five years ago have an apprenticeship. Now it could be said that it was three times as expensive as the NAP's action, but only a quarter of the success was achieved. But this is not my access to education policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A few words on the Youth Training Security Act: Last year, at about the same time and earlier, we have repeatedly pointed out in the Committee that the temporary measures of the Youth Training Security Act are extended, because too many young people are without work and without teaching. You have deliberately left time, rejected our requests last year, and then, so to speak, created a small "Mickey Mouse paper", which will provide you with 100 million, half of which will have to pay the countries anyway. Today, do not even reject our requests, but delay them. _Move You will have the problem until autumn, Mr Khol, until the number of young people standing on the street looking for an apprenticeship will be even higher. Mr. Schender! I'll tell you one thing: We really have many proposals, we have proposals that the tables bend! But you should listen to these suggestions too! We could discuss all these proposals in an apprenticeship employment summit, for example with Minister Bartenstein, with the competent youth minister chief if they only wanted to. We could put all these proposals on the table right away. It must only be the will of the government to accept these proposals, to sit down and talk about them. A concrete proposal has already been made by Mr Riepl today, namely the full-time vocational school – as a complement, I would like to stress, and not as a duplication, as the Committee's report says, nor as... – Mr Grossruck, you have said that dual training should be abolished at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We from SPÖ stand for dual training, we stand for skilled workers, for the high quality of the skilled workers in this country. But what do we do with those who stand on the street? – That would be a useful addition to the full-time vocational school or vocational school, as we also call it. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! Please lift your status of fundamental ignorance, present our suggestions and discuss with us the problems of youth at last!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10730	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mrs Dr Antoni, colleagues and colleagues, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker was Mr Sevignani. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10754	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The educational offensive and study fees popular desire has received 173 594 signatures throughout Austria, which is 2.98 percent. This represents a clear rejection of a red-green education policy, as the initiators have intended. It is a pleasure for me, as a Tyrolean Member of Parliament, that the right-wings in my federal state have looked through the intentions of the red-green initiators most, because this red-green popular desire in Tyrol received the worst results: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Of the population of 469,000, 7,594 or 1.62 percent have signed this popular desire. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We take each of these signatures seriously because concern and reflection were the reason. Nevertheless, one has to question how these signatures came about Red and Green have insecured parents, students, students, teachers, and teachers with panic, anxiety and half-truths. [[Abg. Swimmling: Go and sign! That's what it's usually like!]] They've made moods against a government that doesn't fit them into the business. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Right!]] They have tried to talk a government sick and to make a bad one with Panikmache. [[Abg. Auer: Resist better knowledge!]] They have understood to insure parents and students and to make a policy of education bad with half- or untruths. [[Abg. Auer: Only partially!]] Let me give you an example: There was a popular desire in 1995 called "people's desires per motorcycle". For this there were only five signatures in our community with 2,500 inhabitants – these were the signatures of the five motorcycle owners. For this educational offensive and study fees, which is popular from 6 to 13 years old. In November 2001, there were eight signatures in our congregation, where there are five schools and about 80 teachers are employed. [[Abg. Swimmling: Are you proud of it now?]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Students have also seen through the party-political red-green game of the opposition. 23 419 students are enrolled at the University of Innsbruck. It's a record. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: All the Germans who...!]] From the outcome of this popular desire one can read out the little support for it even under the studentship, and it can be seen that no one who wants to study seriously can be prevented by the study fees. Ladies and gentlemen! You know that when we introduce study fees, we have ousted them with accompanying measures to avoid social hardships. The scholarships and grants have also been extended in the sense of social justice and education justice. Ladies and gentlemen! As a teacher, education and training of our youth are important to me. I can promise the opposition that we will take the suggestions and initiatives in the field of education very seriously, if they are meant to be honest. Never before has there been as much money available for education in our country as this year. About €8 billion will be spent on education in 2002. Because of these facts, the Austrians, in particular the students, have easy access to party-political intentions in this popular desire, because they know that we are on the right path with the education policy of the blue-black coalition. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10881	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10902	High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! The issue of education has been an intensive one for us in recent months and weeks and even today throughout the morning, and this is also a good thing, and that is true, because it is about education policy for our young people in the future and for the future. However, I am sad that the opposition has once again tried to spread uncertainty with the topic of education, with the popular desire for education. It is precisely the result of this educational popular desire, which, with 173 500 signatures, has only received very little attention, that I not only regard as a clear sign or as a confirmation that we are very good in the field of education in international comparison, but also as a trust by the population in our women's ministers, in our education policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] All the more so, I am pleased that despite all this, the opportunity has been used to discuss in detail the concerns and demands of the opposition in an additional subcommittee called for. This subcommittee has shown that we are dealing very seriously with this issue and that this is very important to us. We have also contributed 80 experts to the negotiations in this subcommittee, and I believe that this is also a confirmation that we are very serious about education. Of course, it was also important for us to take all those involved – both parents and students as well as teachers – the fears that have been startled by the opposition and fears. The following opinion, I think, should all be: It can and must not be that the topic of education will be carried out on the back of the students and students! What I strongly reject is the permanent accusation from the opposition that the field of education is being broken down. This is a false claim, which is simply false, because numerous studies disprove these accusations. I am thinking, for example, of the OECD PISA study – it has already been quoted by my colleague Amon today – which shows that we are one in terms of spending on students of the group of six to fifteen years old. There we are at the forefront of the world, only then will the USA come, then Denmark will come, and only then will Switzerland come. That means we can be proud of our education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is important for me to mention here that considerable sums of education are also spent on the part of the municipalities and the countries. I would particularly like to stress that we invest every seven euros of public expenditure in education. In addition, €509 million for research investment will be added. We can be proud of this with fug and right, for that has never been the case in this Republic. It is also important for me to stress that we are not only concerned with the current needs of education policy, but we are also trying to develop this education system. There are many positive examples for this. Of particular importance is the quality that we meet quality requirements with all our actions. I would just like to give a few examples of this: We have created 4,000 new jobs for students in the IT sector. There are eleven new Baccalaureate studies and magisterial studies in the IT field, and there will be 1 200 new colleges starting from the next year of study. As a Lower Austrian, I can say that in Lower Austria we take this challenge very seriously in the IT field, because in the winter semester of 2002/2003 we can provide a total of 1 000 beginners in the 13 higher education courses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Currently, 2 800 students are studying at the technical colleges, and in the year 2004/2005 there will be considerable 4 500. Based on these few examples, you can see that we are in the right direction in education policy that the Federal Government is going a very good way in education policy. You can say: This Federal Government is the guarantee of a future-oriented and secure education policy in this Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e10989	The next speaker is Mrs Wachlander. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11011	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! While the government parties have neither officially nor unofficially supported the educational offensive and study fees requests, they take it very seriously, as demonstrated by the three meetings of the Subcommittee, where there was a really good and fruitful discussion. However, I must tell you one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: That you are trying to manipulate the entire school in the form of cooperation, I think this is a completely unfair thing, because you already have experience from school attempts with it that shows you that the cooperative middle school is very expensive, but actually does nothing for students and students. You should have already recognized that. [[Call the SPÖ:No idea!]] I already have an idea of this, because I've been a teacher for a long time, and I have to say: The findings and evaluations are verifiable, and you can see that it costs too much. For me, it's actually clear: You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who are not now in government responsibility – I wonder if you have ever seen the word "responsibility" in relevance at all – are now trying to programme the entire school, and say: That's where we can score with the entire school now! I think the school as a whole is an unfair equality of education. I think a school system has to be differentiated so that it takes into account the talents and the talents of the students. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] What does it look like in school? – Even the schools, which date back to the 1980s, when one quickly built schools, are not even repairable today. What did you do in the field of school policy at the time? What have you – consciously or unconsciously – done in schools through your party book economy? The maintenance of the primary schools has made you ugly for decades. Moreover, your missing integration policy, which you do not want to admit, has devalued the primary school. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! They speak today of the prestige of the parents who want to send their children to the AHS and not to the primary school. What does it really look like? – One mother told me, for example, that in the first class primary school there is a school list on which 22 children with non-German mother tongues stand, and all the other four, five, or six students who are still in the class have virtually no chance of learning really good German. That's where I have to say: That's what you owe! You can't deny that! This also says the statistics. But your biggest mistake is, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, that you do not want to accept that we have good primary schools. In Vienna everything is a bit different, that's clear, that's what we see, because there the schoolkeeper is the municipality, the country. I don't need to go closer to that. But you know that it's clear that 80 percent of the primary students can wait later with a matura degree, and I think that's a very important thing. Therefore, there is only one possibility for us: vertical cooperation. That means: We are talking about a cooperation of later training at HTL and other educational institutions, but no to a merger in the form of an overall school! It's not possible for us! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The maximum number of students has also been addressed here. 25 is a number that is safe, but on the other hand you have to ask yourself: Why do we have 30 students in one class now? – Because we cannot afford to build new schools, and this is because you have left us so much debt. It will take a long time for us to recover from this policy and make it possible to start a school that really has a hand and foot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] – Mr Schwemlein, you can still talk here anyway, do not interrupt me constantly! On the other hand, we have the opportunity to reduce the number of students by project groups, by division, by accompanying teachers. However, one thing has already occurred to me, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: There is a law that allows a 20 percent exceedance of the maximum of 30 AHS, BMS and BHS. Do you know who introduced this 20 percent increase? – Of you, of course the SPÖ! But today you're excited about it, and I think that's a bit strange!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11089	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to lower the noise level a little. In particular, I would draw attention to the fact that the use of mobile phones is prohibited here in the meeting room. I would ask if it is necessary to make a telephone call outside the plenary room! Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11114	Ladies and gentlemen! A brief look at the full-time vocational school: In the Subcommittee, Mr Dumser, the District School Inspector, stressed that this popular desire is based on the concern for the development of education. I can only say: He should have had these concerns under a SPÖ Minister of Education and not today! He also noted that there are 3 388 young people who do not have training. - Right! Sad! That's terrible! Only: What have you produced with your educational and apprenticeship offensive, with "Euroteam"? You keep silent about that! Real help for a vocational school and for the dual system only brings one, namely the appreciation of teachers, as well as the upgrading of the primary school. What's an upgrade? – By offering quality and not just quantity, not just many possibilities. Especially quality is important. Apprenticeship training is a matter which will certainly have a very important role in the future, because our economy needs skilled workers, as we all know very well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11152	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11174	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard a number of contributions from the representatives of the opposition parties, and I must conclude: They simply refuse to take note of reality! You don't know what happened! I will do this on the basis of a few examples – Mr Schwamlein, you can then take note of reality! – also prove. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scatter]] One of the demands of this popular desire was to abolish the tuition fees and restore free access to education and school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The fact is, Mrs Worm, that the number of students has not changed because of the study contributions. The number has remained the same, but there has been a tremendous adjustment in the number of students. There are no more 65 000 students, and there is a tremendous relief for all those who really want to study. That's essential! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This means – and I believe that I can expect, and I hope that you, Mrs. Wurm, can do so too – that in Austria 130 000 S per student are spent not as at that time per year, but 170 000 S. This means that Austria spends the most per student in one year in the OECD comparison with distance. Mrs. Colleague, why are you still sorry? - That's the first one. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, Mrs Worm: They demand a socially just system of student and study aid in a completely obsolete and unfit popular desire. I ask you: Yes, did you sleep? – You slept when you were in the government, and you slept again when you were banished to the opposition bank. This government has already implemented a socially fair system of student and study aid. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: No!]] Facts! Facts! Mrs. Wurm, your request, which you signed, is obsolete. You've opened it up! [[Abg. May. Worm: No!]] You are – allow me this expression – with your colleagues on this issue. [[Abg. May. Worm: No!]] By raising the income limit to which a scholarship can be obtained, Mrs. Wolf, the group of study aid beneficiaries was expanded by around 12 500. The share of study aid beneficiaries in your government was 14 percent. Today, the share of study aid beneficiaries is 25 percent. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] This government has made sure that 11 percent more students benefit from a study grant. That's worth a applause, Mrs. Worm! That's where you can say good-bye. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Wurm, look out, follow-up! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The funds allocated to the aid were increased by 450 million Schilling – at that time – by 1.55 billion Schilling from the Federal Government. There are thus 2 billion schillings to be distributed. That's far more than you've ever done with your socially democratically led government, Mrs. Worm. [[Abg. May. Worm: Read it!]] Next point where you need further assistance. Now another point that is always at your heart: the reduction of the maximum number of students. Do you know the average data? - You know her. In international comparison, we have the lowest values by far. In compulsory school we have a relationship between teachers and students of 1 : 12, in the BHS area such as 1 : 9 or 1 : 8 and in the AHS area one such of 1 : 7. Mrs Wurm! Take note of the facts together with your comrades! Take note that this federal government is far better on this question than its own! Take note that we are making politics for the people and not for the party!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11318	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11340	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It was certainly positive today that there was a very detailed discussion on education, and it is also positive that this has already been done in a very detailed way in the subcommittee. It was striking that the government parties had no means to operate with false facts. I'm just grabbing out two of them. Otherwise, I would need longer than the speaking time available to me. Mr Schweitzer! 14 900 aid beneficiaries would have more, you said here earlier and meant that this would be a welcome. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Of course! Right!]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have complained. But what is reality? – There are 14 900 applications more and 5 900 more authorisations. Not 14 900, but 5 900! This is the truth, Mr Schweitzer. Don't operate with wrong numbers here! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Punish!]] The second thing I want to take out and that has touched me particularly – that has already happened at the beginning of the day, namely at the speech of Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Khol: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Presente!]] Today's debate and the new university law were presented as a presentation of the Federal Minister's birthday today. We also applauded that, as it was heard. The whole thing seemed strange to me, and I asked myself: What does the birthday of Mrs Bundesminister have to do with this university law, and why does Mr Khol say that today we are discussing this because the Minister has birthday? [[Abg. May. Kukacka: The speech of Mr Niederwieser is rare! Very strange!]] I looked at it because I remembered it differently, and I found that the birthday of the Federal Minister was not on 22. ==References====External links== May. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] That's what I'm asking myself: How do you deal with the truth in general, if you already need such shame to convince the public of something? "Weit" you brought it!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11429	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 1113 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: That is the majority, and that is the reason why the request was accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Antoni, colleagues in the field of violence at school. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues, on the implementation of the demands of the people of education. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni, colleagues, on the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dr Antoni, colleagues on the abolition of tuition fees and reform of study funding. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni, colleagues on the system of social aid for pupils. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni, colleagues, on cooperation between different types of school. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Antoni, colleagues, on the establishment of vocational schools. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – That is the minority, and that is why this request is rejected. 2. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (969 of the Supplements): Declaration by European governments on the production phase of the Ariane carriers (1121 of the supplements) 3rd. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government Template (1030 of the Supplements): Internal Agreement between the representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the measures to be taken to implement the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and the procedures to be followed, together with the Annex (1122 of the Supplements) 4. Point Government template: Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on the Privileges and Immunities of OPCW (964 of the Supplements) (no committee preliminary advice in accordance with § 28a GOG) 5. Point Government template: Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. June 2000 and Annexes (1028 of the Supplements) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice) 6. Point Government template: Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the financing and management of Community aid under the Financial Protocol to the Convention on the Functioning of the European Communities, of the European Communities, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part. In Cotonou, Benin, a partnership agreement signed between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, and on the provision of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories to which the fourth part of the EC Treaty applies, together with Annex (1029 of the Supplements) (not a committee preliminary advice in accordance with Article 28a of the EC Treaty)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11630	We now come to points 2 to 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. Agenda items 4 to 6 were withdrawn from preliminary work in committees pursuant to Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure. We are now going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. I'll give her this.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11663	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I know it is a further way from the Austrian education system to French Guiana or to Cotonou in Benin, that city after which the Cotonou Agreement we are talking about today is named, but I still hope to be able to gain and claim your attention to these issues. We are discussing several agenda items in this debate. Let me first briefly explain why my group will not approve the report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the declaration by European governments on the production phase of the Ariane carriers; we will be very pleased with the other proposals. There are three main reasons for this disapproval. One is that, although in the agreement with the Ariane carriers there is very much inside that these missiles may be used exclusively for peaceful purposes, the risk of abuse is of course always given. A second point is that this space centre is located in French Guiana, is being tested there and, in my opinion, it is very likely that colonialist aspects do not necessarily justify approval. The third and probably most important argument is that even in the context of the agenda issue we are discussing here today, namely the Cotonou Agreement, the financial resources can be used much more effectively than for the research of an Ariane rocket and the use of it, especially in view of the fact that the issue of poverty reduction is a main issue of the Cotonou Agreement – and also of Austrian development cooperation. That is why I think it makes sense for our group not to give its approval to this agreement. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We shall, however, give our approval to the other proposals and also to the Cotonou Agreement. Let me explain why. This new agreement between the European Union and the so-called ACP States, the African, Caribbean and Pacific States – 77 of which have signed 76 of this Agreement; Cuba is not in the process, but it is now trying to do so; I hope that this will succeed – it regulates an area that has been the subject of a whole generation of agreements since decolonization and since many African, Caribbean and Pacific states became independent. This is therefore a broad, above all developmental, but also economic and political cooperation agreement. It replaces the Lomé IV Agreement and the various other agreements that have been concluded between this group of countries and the EU since the 1970s. Originally, these agreements had a very partnership spirit. It was really a matter of taking action together to ensure these countries a wider and better social and economic development. Unfortunately, the Lomé IV Agreement, which entered into force in 1990, had already gotten a little away from this partnership idea. At the time, integration into the world market was a priority and the objectives of the independent development of these countries in the social field, in the environmental field, were put into the background. However, this principle of solidarity with the African, Caribbean and Pacific states – which represent former colonies for some European countries – is probably one that should still be a thing of the past. For example, in the context of the Lomé Treaties, there were individual points that were innovative for the time being – a time when, as is unfortunately the case today, very uneven world market conditions and exchange conditions for products from these countries were established. There were the famous STABEX and SYSMIN agreements. They provided for the granting of compensatory payments to ACP countries for agricultural products and for mining products which could achieve very low prices on the world market, in order to support production in the countries and thereby increase the revenue of these countries and their population. That was a really innovative element at the time. These two measures are no longer being continued, and there is no real substitute for what I am going to explain later on, which would compensate for the failure caused by the conditions of the world market. A positive point in the Lomé IV agreement has already been that human rights were enshrined as a fundamental element of cooperation and measures could be put in place, so that, if a country did not meet these criteria, this would also mean an end to payments. This happened, for example, in 1991 with Sudan, where a military coup took place in 1989. At present negotiations are taking place again. Especially those two colleagues, who were with me in Sudan at the beginning of April, know that negotiations are now under way and that the EU is very much pressured to reclaim the criteria in the area of human rights, democracy and the acceptance of civil society. At the end of the 1990s, efforts were being made to reform these agreements. Lomé IV ran out in 2000, and it was clear that there had to be a reform at the roots, as Commissioner João de Deus Pinheiro put it at the time, which meant a reform to the head and members. He expressed in the Commission's 1997 Green Paper that he said economic developments in individual countries went hand in hand with the resolution of growing social structures, with increasing military conflicts and humanitarian disasters. He also said that these economic developments, one-sided in the world market, also led to development efforts being undermined because the focus of EU assistance in the area of disaster aid and crisis management had to be shifted and funds could no longer really be invested in social and economic development. There was therefore a need for reorientation, and these new negotiations were led by the motto that there must also be a new opportunity in the new millennium to re-establish the EU's relations with the ACP countries. In this sense, this agreement is very much a necessary and important regulatory instrument with which the EU's relations with these 76 countries – two thirds of the developing countries – can be reformed. In reality, however, this agreement remains far behind the promises made by the EU towards these countries. I believe that there are many shortcomings in this paper, some of which I would like to mention. For example, as I have already mentioned, the idea of partnership is no longer present, but all economic relations are to be subject to the rules of free world trade, especially WTO rules. At the same time, this agreement states that the regional partnership should be improved. It's totally unclear how one should fit in with the other. In fact, there should be a priority for regional cooperation and then, so to speak, a trade fair on the free market. Another point is that although the agreement contains very positive wording in relation to the political dimension, it mentions the promotion of participation in the countries themselves. For example, the question of human rights I mentioned earlier is further defined, but the participation and participation of civil society organisations, women's organisations and environmental organisations is also defined on paper. As the implementation looks, there is a fear that the motto applies: Paper is patient. What the implementation looks like is not yet contained in this paper. It will show how the negotiations between the EU and individual country groups that will begin in September 2002 will look like the so-called Economic Partnership Agreements, the European Union's concrete negotiating mandate. There is already a proposal from the Commission, which is likely to be adopted by the Council in June. I am very curious about this, and I would have liked to ask the Foreign Minister – I do not know whether Mrs Gehrer can answer this, but I hope that I will have the opportunity to address this specific question to the Foreign Minister herself – whether she intends to make a number of points in this negotiating mandate to the European Union: the regional integration priority that has already been mentioned in relation to integration into the world market; the question of whether environmental sustainability and social sustainability should also be a priority in implementation, and to point out that it would be necessary for EU countries and ACP States to jointly try to reform the WTO rules in this regard, and not just to say: We are now focusing on the WTO in everything. I'm sorry, but the In this context, however, it is particularly important to point out a point that my colleague Pirklhuber will then carry out even more precisely later: EU rules in the field of agriculture are probably those most relevant to developing countries. Subsidies and export promotion are a major disadvantage for developing countries in particular when it comes to placing their products on the market or being able to implement their products only in their own country. We see this lack of coherence also in Austria, but unfortunately it is also evident in this paper: On paper – paper is patient – the objectives are, the aim of combating poverty is also well formulated in words, but what it will look like will depend on the EU's negotiating mandate. It will still be necessary for the Austrian side to ask for the two points already mentioned, but also the point of civil society's participation in the negotiations for these new EU Economic Partnership Agreements with the ACP countries, and I insist that the Austrian Foreign Minister will also do so, even if she cannot answer them now.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11751	The next speaker is Mrs Jäger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11772	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Lunacek has already mentioned that we are today adopting a law that has an impact on countries that are very far away. However, I think that, in the end, effects on countries in Africa, which is our neighbouring continent, have an impact on us. I am also convinced that many of these countries in Africa, in the Caribbean, in the Pacific are only so poor because they are really so rich: rich in resources, rich in raw materials. Since the period of colonialism, the European countries have had great interest in these raw materials. Today, it looks like Africa is only 1 percent involved in world trade and only 2% in trade with the European countries – and it is impoverished and faltered. I mean, the fact that a whole continent is disconnected from world trade is actually the scandal, and I hope that this will finally be changed! Today, when we decide to ratify the new Economic Partnership Agreement between the EU and the ACP States, it is also a question of how or whether people in the poorest countries are improving their lives. I very much hope that this agreement actually contributes to this improvement. We must admit that the liberalisation of world trade has led to a deterioration in the living situation of people in these countries and that, above all, the industrialized countries have benefited from it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Economic Partnership Agreement is entitled, first, to adapt trade policy to the needs of sustainable development from third world countries, second – Mr Lunacek has already mentioned it – to strengthen regional economic processes. We also see that all economic relations are directed abroad and that the economic areas in Africa, on the continent, are far too little. – It is also intended to combat poverty in these countries, especially through a constant political dialogue in order to combat the occurrence of crises. It is precisely to strengthen democratic principles, and this agreement, which is certainly positive, also provides that, if a country commits serious human rights violations, this agreement will, as it were, be opposed. However, what I see in fact is the fact that this agreement seeks to ensure that the ACP countries are better integrated into the multilateral trade order, although – and this is also the case in this Treaty – it is accompanied by measures in the economic and social sphere. But this Economic Partnership Agreement has to be implemented, on the one hand, to improve trade policy with the EU and, on the other, to be an instrument of development policy in the ACP countries. Whether that goes together will prove to be true. This means that from the beginning of these negotiations – and I am now addressing the Federal Government and the Minister of Foreign Affairs – we have to act very strongly, especially when it comes to this requirement of sustainability review, which should be carried out even before these countries enter into force. There are no real criteria here: What is sustainability? – In this examination, it must also be borne in mind that many of these countries are pure suppliers of raw materials, namely suppliers of agricultural products, which is not particularly sustainable in the field of ecology. It is still completely unclear how this deals with sustainable development, external trade, freedom of capital movements, environmental sustainability, all that has to do with sustainability. We must therefore act here from the very beginning, if we really think it is serious that these countries should finally be given a chance to participate, both at European level and at world level. At this point I would like to mention one point which Mr Lunacek has already mentioned, namely the problem of subsidising agriculture and fisheries. Here, not only is the EU a major problem, but above all the US, and I would like to protest here once again against the new agreements of President Bush, which will extend the agricultural subsidies in the USA to 70 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In fact, all WTO rules are repealed, and the US, which always so strongly advocates compliance with WTO rules, is clearly in breach of WTO provisions. So what is necessary? – I said it earlier: It is important not only to ensure that sustainable development is actually promoted, but also to increase the export base of ACP countries towards value-added, high-quality goods and services. But that means that we have to take a lot of money in order to actually improve education, training and enable people in these countries to produce products other than raw materials. We also call for the inclusion of women's policy in economic relations with these countries to be more and more involved: How can women be shared in the economy of a country? We all know: This is the first step towards poverty reduction at all! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11841	The next speaker is Mr Spindelegger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11862	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are negotiating and discussing five government documents, all of which we all agree with, but which, of course, can also be found in a further context on fundamental issues that we are discussing today in the development of the European Union. I would like to address some of these basic questions. Our developmental spokesman, Mrs Mag. Hakl, will comment on the details anyway. From my point of view, in the wider context of development, we must see that, of course, the question is always asked: What will the European Union continue to agree on such strong financial assistance with ACP countries that are far away? Is it really necessary to spend so much money on it? Is this a necessary policy of the European Union? I believe that even if the financial needs of enlargement become strong, we must be on this principle. We from the Austrian People's Party do not want to change anything about this in the future, because we believe that we also need to move financially with the ACP countries in the direction of dealing with the construction of common structures, in order to deal with problems ourselves and not to be imported into the European Union, as we see today in different ways. I think it is very essential that we also move in this direction together. I have seen that there is a fundamental consensus between all political groups in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and I think this is very good. A second principle, which, of course, also appears in this context, concerns: How should the European Union position itself more in the global context? Should it not also appear much stronger in foreign policy? – Our answer to this is: Yeah, she should do that! But let us also be self-critical enough and ask ourselves the question: Why doesn't this work today? Because in the European Union there is still no overall approach to the common foreign policy, but often personal resentments or country interests are also in the foreground and one does not agree on a real line together and pursues it consistently. To this end, it will be necessary for us to move in the European Union's common foreign policy to have more competence to ensure that everyone adheres to the consistent follow-up of common principles in foreign policy – and that, therefore, we do not have common defeats, just as has unfortunately happened with regard to the EU's representation in Israel, as this was a humiliation for all the countries of the European Union that we do not need to have. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In this context, I would like to mention a third principle, which I believe is important in terms of the common security policy: We are also experiencing fear and horror in Austria in these days because of the new warnings of terror that are currently being issued. I believe that all here in the House are also doing well to take these warnings seriously, because it cannot be done enough to events like those of the 11th. September or to prevent comparable in the future. We also need structures to do this. We all discussed these events in great detail last year, but when we are honest, we know: The awareness of these dangers has fallen to a minimum since that time. Nobody is ready to take real action in the fight against terrorism. – But we don’t want it to happen until it’s too late again. That is why I think it is necessary for us to intensify efforts at European level in the fight against international terrorism. We are in Austria Thank God for finding a very good crisis prevention. I should just like to remind you that every morning in the Ministry of the Interior a meeting on the situation of the fight against terrorism is held, that once a week a three-way round takes place between the three departments that have competence in this context – the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Federal Ministry of Defence – at the highest level, and that the corresponding structures have also been created in the federal states. I therefore believe that in Austria we have provided a maximum of precautions in this regard. I also think that is very important, because we want to fight not only such acts of terrorism, but also, if possible, to prevent them from happening in the first place. This requires that all services work together, that information is networked, and we actually take warnings we receive at international level as seriously as is necessary for the security of our people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For the sake of these principles, we will all agree to five government proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11938	The next speaker is Mrs Freigaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e11960	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr President. High house! With today's decision of the National Council on the implementation of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement, Austria is again clearly committed to sustainable development cooperation. This requires fair trade first and foremost. On the other hand, the assurance of humanitarian aid and emergency aid in crisis situations, such as war, natural disasters, but also in social conflicts or in reconstruction measures, is an essential contribution to the achievement of which is not only exhausted in political dialogue with the developing countries but also in our common values. [[In the case of the liberals as well as the aggregator, I should like to thank you for your support. Schwarzenberger.]] However, in order to combat poverty and to ensure the necessary integration of developing countries into the world economy, constant close and target-oriented cooperation will in future be necessary if the theoretically defined conditions for development projects, programmes or other measures are to be achieved in a sustainable way. In addition to the general assessment and determination to improve the overall economic, financial and structural situation of a State, development cooperation should clearly force the development and implementation of concrete regional measures, as regionally implemented measures lead to a real improvement in the living conditions of the people living in these countries. At European level, therefore, a better coordination and coordination of development programmes with the main international donors must first and foremost be carried out in order to actually implement the development strategies envisaged.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12001	Next, Mrs. Gehrer speaks. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12022	Mr President. High house! This partnership agreement, which will be discussed here today, is a very important milestone in cooperation between the European Union and the 77 States – 76 of which have signed – in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific. It also introduces a new era in the 25th-year tradition of cooperation, and Mrs. Foreign Minister Ferrero-Waldner is proud that the negotiations on this agreement have been opened within the framework of the Austrian Presidency that the launch of this new agreement has been practically established there. It was difficult negotiations, as she reported to me before her departure, but they were nevertheless successfully completed, and Austria made a significant contribution to this. This agreement is also indicative, it is concluded for a period of 20 years, and Austria has been able to make a number of points in this agreement. First of all, this includes the fight against poverty. It is very important that poverty is effectively combated in these countries. This includes fair trade. Austria was alone at the beginning of the negotiations and was only then able to convince the Commission and the other EU Member States that this fair trade must be enshrined in the agreement. This agreement also contains substantial reforms. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is particularly concerned about three points. Firstly, the strengthening of the political dimension, the anchoring of responsible governance. I think it is very important that for the first time, it is also possible to detect cases of serious corruption not only but also outside the agreement, if not well managed in a country, to say: The European Union cannot send money to a country where it is not well managed. The second important point is the readmission clause concerning illegal residents. And the innovation that many consider to be the most important at all is the change in the trade regime. This agreement creates better conditions for economic integration – and that is what we all need – for the economic integration of these African, Caribbean, Pacific states into the world economy. One-sided trade preferences have proved to be non-target, and it is therefore so important that this amendment of the trade regime is anchored. Ladies and gentlemen! With this new agreement, the European Union has set itself the requirements of time. Instruments that proved to be inefficient have been removed. A new partnership, based on even more mutual responsibility, good governance and gradual integration into the world economy, will thus pave the way. I thank all those who actively support these agreements on behalf of the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12081	Next, Mr Heinzl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12102	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Promoting cooperation between European States for peaceful use in space research, space technology and their space-technical applications for science and space-use systems is the declared objective of the European Space Organisation ESA. In order to fulfil this task, ESA is developing a long-term space policy that allows Europe to develop its own competences in all technical areas of space space. The Government template "Declaration of European Governments on the production phase of Ariane carriers" also provides an opportunity to point out that ESA is not only an important factor in the field of technological research and development, but also an employer in Europe. As an example of this, let me mention the European Space Research and Technology Centre ESTEC in the Netherlands, which employs around 1 100 people; also the space airport in Kourou, which covers 9,600 hectares and where more than 1 300 people find employment. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has always tried to support this project not only financially, but also to make its contribution in the fields of research and technology development. It will only be possible to stay on top of our country through well-founded training and, as far as possible, with interested and smart minds in our country. It is precisely here, High House, when it comes to space research, that products that benefit us directly and everyone, and where every Member State receives a reasonable return from its investments, it is important to stress that it is damaging to development in our country that one, like me, is currently running false education policy. [[Abg. Grandruck: Theme missing!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! How much know-how had been lost for Austria, Bruno Kreisky would not have opened the universities to all Austrians in the 1970s! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: My God, he still believes it!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Some never learn!]] The current situation in the study sector with enormously reduced number of students has shown that not everyone who wants to can really afford a study. [[Call the ÖVP and the Freeman: the topic is missing!]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are fewer and fewer families in our country who are so good that they can study their children – even under difficult conditions. [[Abg. Böhacker: Talk about yesterday!]] Mr Spindelegger, if you find that ridiculous, what I am saying: I am convinced that your party colleague, Minister Bartenstein, who is a Schilling billionaire or a Euro millionaire, certainly has no problem paying the tuition fees for his children. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: Mr Heinzl certainly not!]] However, we Socialists represent those people in our country – and this is the majority – who are very, very difficult to impose these additional burdens on their children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: You should have done the class fight already!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Not only do study fees tax and meet the wallets of citizens, but the entire load package of this conservative blue-black federal government, a federal government that weakens people financially and also destroys our country's laborious and long-term wealth. We Social Democrats have been fully supporting the project of a European Space Organisation for decades. The fact is, however, that our country can no longer benefit from and really contribute to the full potential it holds. Once again, Mr Spindelegger, you have written in your master book [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: I don't accept any more entries!]] We Socialists say that there is a competitive education policy, but no to the reduction of education by this conservative federal government! Ladies and gentlemen! The company Ariane Space is responsible for the production, marketing, handling of start-up activities of the carrier rockets Ariane developed by ESA, but it has been entrusted with these tasks. The State Treaty which we are now approving, which regulates the relations between the participants in the Ariane Development Programme of ESA and the French stock company Ariane Space, welcomes our approval, as this means a continuation of the decades of European efforts in the fields of peaceful space research and space technology – I would like to stress this once again. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Who wrote you this speech?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12300	The next speaker is Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12322	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl, we already need a lot of imagination when we establish a link with the study fees on the agenda items on "Declaration by European governments on the production phase of the Ariane carriers" and "Internal Agreements on the implementation of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement". I admire, Mr Heinzl, your imagination – or is it so that you have confused the manuscript: You may have taken a leaf from the woman Kuntzl, one of your preparations and read it down, for such a pink jump, as you have made it before, is there not even in the chess!? – With this speech, dear friend Heinzl, at least you’ve put yourself in chess at least on the outside! – No, no, but I don’t value it, but just notice that these were really rosels that didn’t even exist in chess. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Only in the Spanish court riding school!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: But also what he said about the study contributions was not very g’scheit!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: What item on the agenda is Grossruck talking about now? And rossels sprigs!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Heinzl, I come to the item on the agenda for Ariane-Trägerrakete. With the official participation of Austria, of course, the possibility for us not only to control, not only to speak, but also to participate economically actively in it. Mr Heinzl, you have brought examples from Holland as well as from French Guiana – I now cite two examples from Austria, from Upper Austria. There we have the company FACC, a subsidiary of the company Fischer in Ried, which already supplies on-going products for space and aviation. In this context, I would also like to call the company – and I am delighted to say so – Gföllner in Grieskirchen, who develops and supplies transport logistics for the Ariane carrier rocket. Most of you, ladies and gentlemen, will probably be completely unknown, but I can only say to you: Hightech is delivered there; the individual carrier rocket parts must be packed in containers, are air-conditioned – and the whole must be shake-proof and sterile and so on. – All these tasks are carried out by Austrian companies, which clearly demonstrates – now we are back in training – that our skilled workers have the best training, because otherwise Austrian companies would not get these orders. [[Call the SPÖ:It is still so!]] The training with us will become better and better when the education system of Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer is implemented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] In Austria, we have the best engineering, best quality and excellent workers and employees – a fact that, for example, can secure 200 jobs in the company Gföllner. I wanted to point this out in particular. I am pleased that all these agenda items will be adopted unanimously today. It was not always the case that there was a uniform foreign policy to the outside. For example, I only remember events in the past one and a half years. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: But this is not part of the agenda!]] [[Further calls to the Greens as well as calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Last weekend we were able to hear sounds from the foreign minister Fischer from Germany, who is already fighting election – and obviously tries to tear up old wounds again. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: He said the truth!]] Take an influence on your party partner Joschka Fischer, Mr. Colleague, and explain to him that sanctions against Austria have not brought any sanctions against the sanctioners! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: talk to the agenda! Rosselsprung des Colleagues Großruck!]] The sanctions have not brought anything to the left in Denmark, nor have they brought anything to the left in Norway, and it must be said that Norway is not an EU country. These sanctions have not brought anything to the left in Ireland, even in the Netherlands, Portugal or Italy! [[Call the Greens: Theme missing! Redheads!]] And in France, ladies and gentlemen, the bill has also been served. Take note that the population in Europe is not allowed to go ahead, but that it wants to decide for itself – and so is it in Austria! That is why we do not need external interference! This would be a common foreign policy: as the Italians did. If we had been criticized by Austria, you would have acted against it together, then you would now be much better off the left side of this house! - We're fine anyway. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12491	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12512	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! The Council of EU Ministers for Development presented or decided in November 2000 the EU's new development guidelines, which are intended to continue to be the priority objective of the EU's development policy to combat poverty. In addition, the international division of tasks should focus on trade, regional integration, transport, macroeconomic reforms, particularly in the field of education and health, food security, rural development and the promotion of democratic structures and the rule of law. In addition, EU development ministers have also recognised the importance of spending 0.7% of EU countries' gross domestic product on development aid and cooperation. With the Cotonou Agreement now in force, which was signed on 23 March, the Council adopted a Decision on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the European Economic Community on the one part, and the Republic of Moldova on the other hand, on the other hand, on the conclusion of an Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Macedonia on the one part, and the Republic of Macedonia on the other hand, on the other hand, on the other hand, on the The core of the Agreement is a liberalisation of trade relations with the ACP States within the framework of new regional economic partnership agreements: Within the next phase of preparation from 2000 to 2008, existing trade preferences will continue to exist, but then there will be WTO-compatible agreements to promote and ensure full trade liberalisation in the transition period from 2008 to 2020. The financing of this Partnership Agreement shall be through the European Development Fund and through loans from the European Investment Bank. What is the new thing about this agreement? – First of all, the anchoring of political dialogue at all levels: both regionally and over regionally. Secondly, you, Mrs Gehrer, have already said this: good governance; in addition to democracy, the rule of law and human rights as an important principle of cooperation. Further: Increase the efficiency of cooperation, new trade arrangements through regional free trade agreements and, above all, the increase in financial volume. What are the criticisms of this agreement? . Some of my previous speakers have already said that although the situation of this new Treaty is to be welcomed, the Lomé Partnership spirit has, to a large extent, been subject to the rules of free world trade. While the fight against poverty is still at the heart of this agreement – the priority of the EU's practical development policy, it is a key word: 0.7% of the gross domestic product, but it must only be included in this agreement, and the necessary funds should be allocated to it. It is also necessary to ask whether these economic partnership agreements, which de facto aim at full trade liberalisation, can be in line with the guidelines of ecologically sustainable development and, above all, socially sound development. The EU's agreement with the Republic of South Africa has given a small foretaste of how forced market opening can seriously damage the economy of a contracting partner. In reality, regional South African products have been almost completely suppressed by cheap EU exports, thus causing serious damage to the economy of South Africa. Although the issue of equality between women and environmental protection provisions has been addressed in the agreement, as far as real implementation is concerned, it is relatively vague, and it is also left to a large extent open as to how this whole thing should be implemented. So we basically welcome this agreement and its ratification, so much so, even in the light of the existing criticism, that cooperation between developing countries and industrialized countries can be made partnership in the future and that the benefits of globalisation can also be used for developing countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12567	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12588	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today the Cotonou Agreement is ratified by the Austrian Parliament and on 26 March. ==References====External links== Why? . I believe that all this may be far away for Austria and the people living here, but it will become more and more important for us to see how the development of the Third World countries will be in the future. The Cotonou Agreement also makes it clear to us one of the most pressing problems facing the more developed countries – thank God also for those who otherwise close their eyes to poverty – namely the need for developing the Third World, namely, the problem of migration, which – with a new and partnership approach – is at least addressed. The agreement addresses the issue of poverty reduction, as well as the possibility of creating preventive instruments on the basis of the Cotonou Agreement on conflict prevention in the face of internal political problems in a developing country. It is clear how important the solution to the migration problem is to be found and how to deal with it: On the one hand, EU citizens who are legally resident in the EU of the Contracting Partner States are finally being treated as EU citizens when they live and live within the Community – something that is incredibly important for the integration of these people and their stay here. At the same time, the possibility was also created or the commitment of the partner countries to reintegrate illegal persons in the EU, as well as stateless persons, into their countries. It has often been criticized that this passus is included in the agreement, so I would like to address it directly. I think it is important that the agreement at least contains a regulation on how to deal with those people who were often "interparked" in intermediate and extradition camps in the future. I also think it is important that we, as rich countries, are given the financial resources to the Third World countries in order to actually implement the reintegration and reintegration of their citizens. In addition, I would like to say quite globally: It is not a perfect agreement, but it is a further, big and important step with which you can really be satisfied. It is now also facilitated for the first time, on the basis of this agreement, to prevent cases of serious corruption. Very often, the best development policies in the countries of the Third World and especially in Africa have not been implemented and not implemented because the governments there were corrupt. Now there is at least one way to respond accordingly at an early stage and before conflict can be started, thus contributing to conflict prevention and combating poverty spirals. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope and am pleased that you will give all of this agreement your consent. I hope that this is just a step on the way in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12636	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber has an objection.]] I have specifically considered whether anyone else is speaking and then closed the debate, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: I reported before Mr Hakl started her speech, Mr President.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven inquires about the official sitting next to him.]] There has obviously been a mistake here at the Bureau. That means that this message has not gone on. That is why I shall, on the other hand, open the debate once everyone agrees. – I don't think it speaks against it. Mr Pirklhuber, I would ask you to start your remarks.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12692	Thank you very much, Mr President. Unfortunately, there was a small communication error at the Bureau. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to address the Cotonou Agreement once again in my contribution to the debate, because I believe that there are a lot of links with European foreign policy and, in particular, with European agriculture policy. I would like to point out that 38 of these 77 ACP countries are among the least developed countries, one of the poorest in the poor. It also recognises the importance of this agreement: It is about opening up new opportunities for the poorest. In this context, of course, the question arises whether the measures taken, whether the new Treaty will really help to secure the future of these countries and open up new opportunities. In Europe, little attention is also paid to the relevant EU regulation, which stands for the Least Developed Counties. This Regulation grants those countries special conditions for the export of agricultural products to the European Union. This agreement for the LDCs – also an essential agreement – will be concluded by 1. In January 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative The European Union is therefore aware of its responsibility, I think, but we must take care in detail of the extent to which this responsibility really takes place and whether there are no contradictions in these agreements. First of all, of course, I would like to mention the very special success for our Greens, namely the success that was explicitly mentioned in the new ACP agreement on fair trade. This is a call that we have been carrying out for years and for which we have found an open ear at the Federal Minister. We are particularly pleased. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: A successful reform government!]] A second particularly important point is clearly the intention of reducing poverty, which is preceded and explicitly formulated in this agreement, and in this context the strengthening of civil society and democracy in these countries. These are certainly very important implications, but not just lip confessions. Ladies and gentlemen! At this point, our criticism is also based on the implementation of these objectives. Keywords: regional integration versus integration into world trade; this has been discussed several times today. There is a contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, and the European agricultural policy is continuing, in that we want to continue to maintain our export subsidies and thus destroy local production, in particular agricultural self-sufficiency, worldwide. Ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately a crime! If we take this agreement seriously, we would have to go about opening up opportunities for these countries to "rural development" in line with the commitment we have made here in Europe, for example, in terms of rural development. That would mean reducing our export subsidies and using us at the WTO level for food sovereignty. A particularly important, central requirement of the new century must be: Food sovereignty for our life culture, for our European food culture, but also, of course, food sovereignty for those countries whose inhabitants account for 50, 60 and more percent of agricultural workers, farmers who find their income and income in this way. In this respect, there is a lack of a reorientation of European foreign policy. Mr Spindelegger rightly said that we need more foreign policy – in this I give you the right, Mr Spindelegger – but we also need a new focus. From our point of view, this focus must be on the ecologicalisation of international trade relations and the social dimension of these relations. The anchoring of ecological and social standards in the WTO is a task still to be fulfilled. In my opinion, there is still a lot to be done. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Moreover, this agreement is a first step. Very positive from a green point of view: the long life span of 20 years and, above all, the opportunity to gradually develop detailed measures in their own packages. In this respect, I would like to call on the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is unfortunately absent today, to put further impetus here in the sense of ecological and social development.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12742	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to give approval to the conclusion of the present State Treaty – Declaration by European governments on the production phase of the Ariane carriers – in 969 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. . I note that this request was adopted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty – Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the measures to be taken to implement the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and the procedures to be followed, together with the Annex thereto, in 1030 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Policy within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that all authentic language versions must be made available to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs in all authentic language versions of the Convention and its annex, which is published in the 11 official languages of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Community. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. We are now voting on the agreement with the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons on OPCW's privileges and immunities in 964 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We are now voting on the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the approval of this agreement to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Federal Government within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the rallying of this Agreement, together with the annexes published in the 11 official languages of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Community, must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of a requirement in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall vote on the Internal Agreement between the representatives of the Governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the financing and management of Community aid under the Financial Protocol, on the one hand, and on the other. In June 2000 in Cotonou, Benin, signed partnership agreements and on the provision of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories to which the fourth part of the EC Treaty applies, together with the Annex in 1029 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the approval of this agreement to give an appropriate sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. We come to the vote on the proposal by the Federal Government within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the procurement of this Agreement, together with the annex published in the 11 official languages of the European Union in the Official Journal of the European Community, must be carried out in all authentic language versions by means of a requirement in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign to do so. – I note the adoption by a majority. 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1087 of the Supplements): Federal Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability and adopting a Federal Procurement Act (1118 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12858	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going directly into the debate. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Petrovic is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12886	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Two short preliminary remarks and a few words in the matter. First preliminary remark on the distribution of competence in the state of Austria. – For me, it is always sad that accents towards the shift of competence come far more from the Constitutional Court than from this House. I regret that the so-called administrative reform of last year has not been used to bring about a sensible adjustment of competence between the federal government and countries. There are a number of competences at national level that have really lost nothing there. I do not fully understand why the countries do not enter into a comprehensive negotiation process on what competences they need and need in order to be able to carry out their tasks optimally. But They know as well as I do that in materials that we have often discussed – whether it is federal uniform animal protection law or whether it is other areas – it only leads to difficulties in cases where there is no federal uniform regulation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second comment on the Committee's work. – I must say that thanks to the initiative of Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer in this matter, I believe that it was very good and exemplary to work. I would also like to see this in the materials, which are more often counted among the politically hot iron. I think that these preliminary consultations with all parties may not in all cases lead to a joint decision-making process, but it is important, at least, to exchange views and to learn the views of the countries and the views of the local authorities involved. In this sense, I would like to see us not only in places where the Constitutional Court has given us more or less a mandate to do so, but also in the materials that we have often and very controversially talked about – the right to vote or the other points of a democratic reform – we are doing similarly, instead of always waiting for the next coalition "windle" and at the next reconciliation once again high and holyly promising that we will all sit down on a table. I miss this in these important materials and I would wish that perhaps Mrs. Baumgartner-Gabitzer's will also lead it and that the club members will take it away a little bit, I say: to the material level. Third point, and that is now the content: I see in this regulation – because I also know how the various points have come about – a quite reasonable compromise or, at least, a compromise that was possible. I also believe that a relatively balanced level of regulatory content has been achieved here, at least in the most appropriate areas of the tender procedure itself. That I would have liked to put even stronger emphasis on the federal level, I do not hide. I only realized that this was at least difficult at this stage with the representatives of the countries. This compromise system still has a substance drop in advertising, taking social interests into account. I also see here that a significant improvement has been achieved in the discussions on the first draft and that it is now explicitly mentioned that the employment of women, apprentices, the long-term unemployed, the disabled and older workers can be taken into account. But this is also the reason for the drops: it can be taken into account, it does not have to be considered. I think that from a wide range of social policy concerns it would be quite reasonable that certain social criteria should be taken into account, at least in accordance with the regional priorities. I therefore welcome the fact that this has to be done with regard to the environmental justice of the performance. As has been said, we would like to see a strengthening of social policy. But in view of the careful conduct of the negotiations and indeed also in view of the content of the regulatory matter, we will at least agree to this act at third reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12949	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e12970	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! First of all, I would like to say that it was a really extraordinary achievement to bring to the world such a difficult law in such a good climate. In the end, it was a compromise that could unite all stakeholders. Believe me, there were numerous interventions, and there were enough lobbyists on the way who tried to make this law the way they wanted to change the compromise in one direction or another. All the more so, I would like to thank all the parties involved for the fact that this has happened in a very good climate, in a very technical and factual discussion. I think the law can be seen. On the points we have repeatedly called for, I would like to say that: It has succeeded in establishing a uniform federal arrangement, which is certainly beneficial for the users of the law, because it has created a law for all the federal states that all have to judge themselves. This is a major facilitation of legal access for a contractor operating in several federal states. On the other hand, it has been agreed that the implementation of the laws remains a matter of country, so that this compromise essentially meets the needs of the countries. The second point that we think it was very important that he has found entry into this law is the point of social standards. They are now enshrined in the law, and here it will be essential that contracting entities actually use this possibility that this possibility of law, which is offered herewith, is actually taken and finally implemented in practice. Without implementation, it would be a pity for such a progressive law in these social areas. I think we should have an eye on the fact that these social standards are actually being applied. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Petrovic.]] The third point that has appeared to us is that the contractor is now contained in the law. I believe that there is progress here, too, in such a way that one can rely on the data of the contractors over and over again and in the end also has a certain handling when someone is constantly and conspicuously guilty of any violation of the law, in any form whatsoever. A small advertising drop is that the value limit has increased with the spiritual-creative achievements. However, because I believe that we have achieved a very reasonable compromise in this respect, we will also agree to the law in this respect, but we are putting our attention on the fact that we did not go along with this amendment because we did not in itself want to provide for derogations in these laws. In the end, however, the compromise is feasible and reasonable, so that we can give our support to this law. I was a little surprised at the argumentation of the liberal side, which, although it had always been understood as a control party in its opposition role, now wanted to raise the value limits as high as possible: with spiritual-creating achievements at €200 000, in construction projects even at €350 000. This would have meant, in effect, a complete contradiction to the transparency of this law, and it would, above all, have become uncontrollable. It was calculated against the background of the event during the time of Minister Forstinger, who had freely granted almost everything in her field. Orders over €1.7 million were freely awarded there, and now Minister Reichhold has a huge problem there, which he does not even hide: He doesn't pay for it! This would not have been the case if such limits had not been laid down. If transparency had also been applied to these freely awarded orders, then this disaster could have been prevented in the field of the Ministry of Infrastructure! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why I am a little surprised at the fact that there are so high limits of value here, although the Minister's own will have to do "clean-up work" there, which presents him with great difficulties. For example, there are coaching contracts in the order of € 85 000 for a press speaker. This is, of course, a spiritual-creative achievement, but especially in a ministry, this should be subject to the tender criteria and transparency. Another drop in advertising is that a very weak regime has been introduced with regard to the subsequent review of transparency in contracts worth less than € 130 000 in the intellectual and creative field. Finally, you have to say everything in everything: It is a successful compromise. It is a compromise that offers benefits to the legal user because the law is applicable throughout Austria. It is a law that meets modern standards by keeping social standards in place. It is a law that should ultimately be applicable. I will allow myself to make another motion for a resolution because we all do not know how to deal with the value limits which are below the threshold. To do this, we need experience that might then make some adaptation necessary. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that this too is a reasonable solution. Finally, I would like to express my thanks to those who have cooperated here. It was an exceptionally good and consensual climate for all who participated. It is ultimately, I believe, also a good law.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13083	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported, in a sufficiently factual context with the matter of negotiation, and therefore also with the vote on the negotiation or further follow-up. The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13107	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Not only was the climate in the Committee and political negotiations very constructive. I am also making extremely constructive contributions to the speeches, and I am very pleased with a matter such as the right to award. A year and a half ago, we also stood here, negotiated and voted on the contract law, were concerned with it and, if you remember, did not reach an agreement in the material field. At the time, we had the only opportunity to continue writing the legal situation as it was then, and with the help of a motion for a resolution – that is, with the help of the Federal Government – we were commissioned to come to a common, uniform contract right. I mean, we did, we really came to this uniform law. At the time, I had a bit of "baucheweh", I was not sure if we would succeed in this one and a half years. At the time, we set a time limit for a new, uniform right to award until the 1. ==References== Ladies and gentlemen! We've done it, and we're all glad about it, and that's the mood now. It certainly wasn't easy. We can all be proud that in constructive negotiations we have come to a conclusion that industry and science have long called for. That is what we really did with this result. Allow me to call you a few numbers to show you what we're talking about here. These figures are impressive. The right to award is, I say, an extremely important economic law. We are talking here about a public-hand order volume, which in 1999 amounted to a total of €35.3 billion – that is, €484.7 billion schilling. This is an enormous volume, which is 17.9 percent of GDP – this is only so that we know what we are deciding on today. In 1988 it was still 15 billion euros or 207 billion schilling, i.e. more than a doubling of this volume in eleven years. As a result of this volume, I believe that it is justified – and I would like to go a little further than the accusations made by Mrs Petrovic or her – that we are here very carefully looking at what the legal situation is, what the constitutional situation is and what a law has to look like. The task of the contract law is to aim at public procurement and to ensure proper control; given the huge sum, it is an important task. On the other hand, however, manageable, simple rules should be created. That is to say, this law represents a walk between "as much as necessary" and "as little as possible". Simplification, which was implemented in this proposal for a law, was urgently needed. There has also been a harmonisation in the field of competence, and if you look at Article 14b – its own constitutional provision – you see that the legislation will be federal in the future, unless it is legal protection, and enforcement is based on whether it is an order of the federal government or of the countries. There was also the desire of the countries, in my opinion, to be involved in the legislative process in good time in the negotiations, and I believe that we have done so in a constructive and good way. Therefore – and with that I come back to Article 14b – this article 14b looks a bit complicated. But that was necessary. A simpler legal language was not possible here. The involvement of the countries is ensured by having a right of participation before and a right of consent to the procurement. I would have liked to have – and it had already been quite a long way in the negotiations – that there would have been a majority of the countries' right of consent. I'm sorry it didn't happen. Yesterday I read in a newspaper that a certain criticism of the involvement of the countries has come back. I must expressly resist this: Countries must have essential rights of participation, because we are here in the core area of private administration. Let me also say a word like my previous speakers on the negotiations. There was a good, constructive spirit from all those involved, and I would like to thank you very much for that. We have always been able to reach compromises, and ultimately, Mr Wittmann, the result of the spirit-creating achievements was also a compromise which the SPÖ at least welcomed in the negotiations. We have reached compromises on the question of competence on the thresholds, and I am very much in need of expressing thanks to all those officials who have finally made these compromises possible through hourly negotiations. I would like to represent the officials of the Federal Chancellery Dr. Fruhmann, Dr. Dossi and Mag. Call Lanner and on the side of the countries Dr. Kraft von Vorarlberg, Dr. Kleiser and Mag. Kodric from Lower Austria and Dr. Hechtner and Dr. Haunold from Vienna. I am particularly grateful to them, for all the others who were involved, because without their preliminary work we would not have done so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13173	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13195	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to thank all those involved for their constructive cooperation. However, with regard to these constructive negotiations, I am somewhat disappointed, Mr Wittmann, about today's "standard" article. The last negotiations, where good results have also been achieved, were mainly conducted by your club secretary, who is very competent. They were usually not there. And there are 130 000 special drawing rights in the field of mental and creative services and not in the euro. Transparency is ensured and the reasons must also be stated in writing. I think that's a very good solution. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With the right to award, it is about money, about a lot of money, about tax money. We have heard: almost 18 percent of GDP. The new right to award is another proof of the administrative reform, the speed of the administrative reform, another proof that the Federal Government is moving something. This right of award brings relief and simplification to the economy. We've already heard: National borders will no longer play a role within Austria. A contractor has so far faced the difficulty of being subject to different contract rules in Vienna-Liesing than in the neighbouring Perchtoldsdorf. From these nine national procurement laws and the one federal procurement law, a uniform material federal procurement law will now be incorporated into the EU directives. FPÖ has also represented the interests of the economy in the negotiations. The new procurement right is economic-friendly, is SME-friendly. In addition to the substantive harmonizations, the ÖNORM 2050 was also introduced, leading to a significant improvement in legibility. The best bidder principle has also been given priority in the future over the low-cost bidder principle. There is only the lowest bidder principle for standardised services, where the only difference is the price. As far as fees are concerned, we have also been able to negotiate moderate fees at low order values. The new right of procurement brings speeding up the procedure, brings more transparency and, above all, brings fairness to SMEs. As far as legal protection is concerned, errors in the invitation to tender need to be related before the opening of tenders. This also accelerates the procedure. New is also the award-specific legal protection in the lower threshold area. Mr Wittmann has tabled a motion for a resolution. Of course, we will have to keep in mind the number of procedures, and we will see to what extent procedural delays will occur. The legal protection in the Federal Republic of Germany is also being re-regulated. The Federal Contracting Office is set up in accordance with the terms of time and constitution. The experience of the economy has greatly influenced the FPÖ positions in the negotiations. In the future, the economy will continue to be called upon to bring in its experience with the rules of procurement practice and to contribute to the further development of procurement law through its feedback. I bring the already distributed amendment tabled by Mr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr Sylvia Papházy and colleagues on the Government template: Federal Law amending the Federal Constitutional Act and the Federal Law on the establishment of a federal procurement company with limited liability and adopting a Federal Procurement Act (1087 of the Supplements), as amended by the Committee Report (1118 of the Supplements), and asking the President to take this into account. The contract law is a very complex matter. The experts of the Federal Chancellery and the experts of the countries are very good at helping us as a consultant. I should also like to thank you very much for this, because without it, the award law would not be ready for decision today. I am also pleased that the Green Group will vote in third reading. The right to award should be shared by all political groups.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13261	I announce that the amendment tabled in its key points is properly supported, in sufficient material connection with the matter of negotiation and therefore also with the negotiation, in writing. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13340	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13362	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! ==References====External links== It was very constructive in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer has assessed the law here and also in the Committee as very economic-friendly and as good for the economy, Mr Krüger said it was a big throw, and Mr Wittmann, Mrs Papházy, who was of course present, stressed that it was a very objective law. What were the conditions? In 2000 the draft did not accept the parliamentary obstacle. In the meantime, transitional solutions have been used, almost an Austrian fate. In addition, some findings of the VGH had to be incorporated, so no pleasant situation at all. It has already been pointed out that officials have put forth a great deal of effort to form this complex act. This law is of great importance and has far-reaching consequences. It goes far into the administrative area and, of course, also determines considerable parts of economic life in Austria. Since the design was clearly and user-friendlyly divided, one has agreed across the party borders – and I emphasize this – on a consensusal, objective and personal basis. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In summary, therefore, I can say: Public procurement in Austria has new but also good rules. The legal certainty for all parties involved, both for the contractor and for the client, has been renegotiated and this legal certainty has been significantly increased. The Internet was also taken into account. Considering that the new procurement directives can save one to two percent of costs, we are talking about considerable sums for the budget and hence also for the social situation in Austria. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] That is why this is a good law, and we are happy to give it our consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13409	In the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7 and, as announced, we are coming to discuss the urgent request of the Green Group. Request for urgent procedure Dr. Eva Glawischnig, colleagues in the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and Water Management on the implementation of the Federal Government's eco-tax concept, creating work – relieve the environment (673/A) (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13439	The first signatory to the request is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. I therefore assume that she will also be the first signatory to this request. Since he was now distributed in writing to all the members of the house, a reading is not necessary. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13534	Mrs Dr Glawischnig, you have the floor for the reasons. The speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13555	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It is an extraordinary fact that an opposition party, which introduces a concept as a urgent request by the Greens, introduces a wording which has been decided by the Council of Ministers. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] It is quite extraordinary that we are concerned that concepts you decide on will not have any place in the shortest time, and that we will make sure that they will be implemented in the medium term. That's something extraordinary. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the extraordinaryly bad memory of the Freedom Party and the extremely low responsibility of the ÖVP to stand up to and argue about future concepts have led us to this step that we today, as a urgent request, call for a gradual implementation of a socially balanced environmental tax reform and tax advantage by 2005. Why is that so? – Our Federal Chancellor has taken on great commitments in recent months. At the Sustainability Summit in Gothenburg, he committed himself to presenting a sustainability strategy. All this as a preliminary work, as a preparation for the great environmental and development summit, which will take place this August in Johannesburg. The favorite word of our Environment Minister is "Sustainability", he repeatedly speaks of "sustainable agriculture". "eco-social market economy" is also very common. After months of preparatory work at the expert level and after a large presentation of the first draft sustainability strategy with Pomp and Trara in the Hofburg, Mr. Bundeskanzler was then appointed 30. An Austrian sustainability strategy adopted on April 2, which includes exactly these words: A gradual implementation of a socially balanced environmental tax reform. – Everything very positive, we are pleased. But what happens then? – First of all, nothing happens at all. There is only this useful concept: "Create work – relieve the environment", and two weeks later, after there has been a media coverage of it, details of this concept, this sustainability strategy being discussed in public, are followed by a embarrassing spectacle that can be overcome by nothing: Individual members of the government distance themselves from their own decision, show themselves startled and shocked. The vice chancellor claims that all of this was completely out of the air, locates evil media coverage – once again the ORF was to blame for everything. Klubobmann Westenthaler says that this concept is completely irrelevant. Conspiracy theories are developed, one speaks of targeted indiscretion. The Federal Chancellor refuses any discussion about the concept. Klubobmann Khol is dissociating, and today at noon even the Minister for the Environment is distanced from his own concept, three weeks after it has been unanimously decided in the Council of Ministers! If that's not a embarrassing spectacle, then what? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] No one wants to have been, no one has taken any responsibility for this concept, everyone is embarrassing. Those who can remember say that it has no meaning at all. Others can't remember. No one takes responsibility, and nobody argues so much as many leading economists in recent weeks, months and years that this is a good concept. I am already wondering about the shame of this government, about what is embarrassing to you and what is not embarrassing to you. You were not embarrassed to introduce the tuition fees. It was not embarrassing for you to tax accident pensions, to turn the tax rate up to the highest level in the Second Republic. It's not embarrassing at all to buy interception hunters. However, it is embarrassing for you to present and discuss an eco-tax concept, an eco-social tax reform, which creates work and relieves the environment. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is a real "wisdom government", which turns away from its own concepts at the earliest possible time, which turns away from good concepts. And to help the liberals a little on the jumps to overcome the memory weaknesses that exist here: You don't know what you agreed to, Mrs. Vice chancellor. You forgot at all that you agreed to the Council of Ministers. They call it non-binding, airy, Council decisions not binding. But, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and dear colleagues from the Liberties and dear Mr. Schweitzer, who all somehow think that evil is coming from the ÖVP, they have made you rejoice a little: The Council of Ministers presentation was submitted by five Ministries, it was agreed and agreed on for weeks and months between all the ministers concerned. And the five ministers who make this decision – and it is a decision and not just a to-know-how bridge: "The Federal Government wants to take note of this report, which is based on the Austrian strategy and which mandates the Federal Minister for Forestry, Agriculture, Environment and Water Management to coordinate the implementation process." – have signed, Mr Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, Dr. Martin Bartenstein, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, and Matthias Reichhold and Herbert Haupt. Thus, evil does not come from the ÖVP series, but you have called a concept that you yourself have brought in, even worked out within a few weeks as completely out of the air. You can't remember it anymore. So if that's not a embarrassing tax debate, I don't know what you would be! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to the ÖVP. – An environmental minister who has returned from his own concepts within so short a time is probably remarkable. But what saddens me very much: The ÖVP has always stood in the tradition of an eco-social market economy, the eco-social market economy is always claimed by the ÖVP as its own invention. The ÖVP, which is always talking about promoting sustainability, close to nature in agriculture, in energy policy, this ÖVP manages to be dissociated by a Freedom Party, is subject to an election debate which deals exclusively with a banal issue that has nothing to do with future orientation, namely who is the better tax reduction party. And that after you managed to introduce the highest tax rate of the Second Republic! Mr Umweltminister! If you distance yourself from your own work, from this request, from this text, which comes from your own department, from your own spring, today also here in plenary, this is the end of your credibility as an environmental minister. I can't judge that differently. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Eco-social tax reform in itself: That is a very, very important question. I would like us to have a more serious discussion in the context of the tax reform discussion. It seems to me that the statements that have been made in recent weeks and months are such that many people in the government parties, but also in the Federal Government, have not seriously dealt with this concept and, although it is actually so simple and so necessary, are not willing to discuss it seriously. It's not a tax reduction. It is not a tax increase either. It is a non-profit concept. Nor is it about reducing social standards. It's a retransmission of the tax burden. It is about re-imposing the tax burden on something which is at the moment very heavy, namely work, towards environmental consumption. This is a concept that means an intelligent link between the environment and the economy, a concept already tested in many other countries, which would be an extreme advantage for many households, for many companies, that would mean a "win-win" situation for many who are already environmentally conscious, and would compensate for the extreme disadvantages we now have in the tax system, namely total blindness on the ecological eye and also a completely false taxation of the factor labour. A careful tax relief also for companies in the context of payroll taxes would be a command of the hour. In this context, I would like to draw your attention to some of the figures that could perhaps interest the ÖVP as a former economic party or as a party to small and medium-sized enterprises. Total wage taxes are an essential part of additional labour costs. We have a unique location disadvantage in this area: 2.8 percent of the gross domestic product is thus applied. Do you know how high the EU average is? - 0.4 percent, that's a seventh! Figures from the Institute of Economic Research speak of the fact that the additional burden of domestic companies by the total wage taxes is €4.4 billion. This has to be seen simply because this is an underestimable competitive disadvantage, leading to structural unemployment in the medium term, as we have seen in recent decades, to black work, Push et cetera. It is therefore against any state-political and economic sense that such an ecological tax reform, which does not mean a tax increase, should not be considered, not even allowed to discuss it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, the ecological blindness of our control system: We still have oil and gas for electricity generation, coal in general completely tax-free, even air petrol still exempt, and that after years of environmental discussion in Austria. The pollutants are getting more, noise is getting stronger, CO2 emissions are increasing, traffic is increasing, dirt is getting more and more accidents. We don't even have a differentiation between atomic current and eco-power – they are treated equally, the control system is ecologically blind! The energy taxes currently available serve exclusively to stop the budget holes and in no way to make our economic system more socially and environmentally sound. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Because of the lack of a distinction between eco-power and nuclear power, I do not understand how you can act against Temelín, since you do not even begin with the homework we could do. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] It is really shortsighted, politically extremely shortsighted – not to say: embarrassing – to reject such a discussion completely; that is why we have put this on the tapet today. Especially significant for this ecological and economic blindness is the sentence of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor: This is not to be thought of. – I have the impression that it is not at all thought about what would be really reasonable, it is only thought in election patterns, it is only more of the competition that is being conducted, who is the better tax reduction party without allowing and discussing future concepts in any form. – This is a witness of poverty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also very sad and worrying for a second reason: The numbers of unemployed in Austria are rising, and there is essentially no concept of the Federal Government against it. However, an eco-social tax reform – not only we say, but also the economic research institute and many leading economic scientists – could bring up to 70,000 additional jobs in Austria for the future – up to 70,000 additional jobs! Is this a concept that you just wipe away from the table and where you forget within three weeks that you decided to do it? – This is not responsible to the increasingly becoming unemployed, and I urge you to reconsider this, to think about your forgetfulness. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What always comes as an excuse and as a reason for not being able to implement the concept is – the Minister for the Environment will now immediately say that the concept is good, if it is implemented in the international equation – that we must pay attention to the international equation. – But there is no international similarity with regard to labour and energy taxation. There's no such thing as him! States such as Sweden, the Netherlands, Denmark, Norway, Finland, Germany and now England have started these things and have become pioneers with these concepts. Because the example of Germany is guaranteed, I address the latest results of the eco-social tax reform in Germany. For Germany there are very, very good forecasts. The German Institute of Economic Research calculates 250 000 additional new jobs. [[Abg. Böhacker: That's nice! 4.3 million unemployed!]] There is already a positive balance: There is lower fuel and oil sales, there are increases in public transport, road transport has declined, companies that work forward-looking – the German wind industry, photovoltaic development technologies – have experienced an incredible boom. So this balance sheet of Germany is very, very positive, and you cannot deny it. Anyone who tries to present it differently here is either misinformed or instrumentalized for political purposes. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Overall, this embarrassing spectacle of the eco-tax, which has been forgotten, has never been decided which has no meaning, but where all the ministries were involved, is symptomatic of the failure of blue-black on central political issues. They have achieved to become a "achievement" in environmental policy from the environmental model country over the last five to seven years. We are in the final analysis of the reduction of greenhouse gases, the achievement of the Kyoto target is a long way off for us, de facto not feasible. With the so-called Golden Plating ban, they have implemented a demand from the European industry and have de facto stated that we are going at a minimum level and are not taking any forward-looking steps at all. In the last two and a half years, they have made deregulations, a recovery – i.e. a standstill in environmental policy – on many environmental issues. In the last few days, they have shown more complete inconsistency in tax policy. For months there has been a dispute – that is ridiculous now –: One says zero deficit is 0.0, the other say 0.9 is zero deficit. You have subdivided all this objective and have not addressed essential structural measures, you have largely rehabilitated revenue on the part of the public – and now forget about it. You have a forward-looking concept within two weeks. The third area, which hurts me particularly, is the whole area of rising unemployment. I do not see any forward-looking concepts to counter this – especially the environmental tax reform would be such. As far as women in the labour market are concerned, there is also complete blindness. All in all, I must say that you have failed to answer these great questions of the future. And this chaos, this spectacle of the eco-taxes you have offered, is symptomatic of black and blue and the failure of this federal government on central political issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Are you talking about Red-Green in Germany?]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Fundamental failure, Schweitzer!]] ÖVP and FPÖ are obviously already in the election campaign, nervousness is increasing, survey values are poor. You want the remaining time – it's still 16 months! – clearly do not benefit from future-oriented discussions or serious discussions with decisions and measures. They are now exclusively engaged in election politics and are fighting for the sovereignty of the tribal tables – it is about: Who is the better tax reduction party? They are unable to conduct a discourse, a debate on issues of great importance to young people in Austria in particular. My personal conclusion: Mr Umweltminister! If you do not agree that your group today agrees with a text that you yourself have drawn up, which has been prepared by your body, if your party colleagues reject it today, then it is almost a vote of distrust against your own Environment Minister, but not just against the Minister of Environment, but against 45 percent of the members of the government, since five ministers have tabled this Council of Ministers. I think that speaks for yourself, and I believe that you have lost your credibility as an environmental minister. The Austrian population will reject a short-sighted and unwise policy on the election day.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13730	In order to submit an opinion on the subject-matter of the urgent request, Mr Mag. Molterer's word. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e13752	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am really grateful for this urgent request because it gives me the opportunity to present to the House a very excellent concept – so you have today referred to it in the "Morgenjournal" itself, Mrs Glawischnig. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how we are!]] I am not just dissociating myself from this, ladies and gentlemen, but I am very proud that Austria is one of the first countries in the European Union to decide on the sustainability strategy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: We don't know anything about it!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] I have heard today that you yourself, ladies and gentlemen, are talking about a real concept of the future. I can only give you the right: Yes, this is a real concept of the future! We are dealing with the questions of the future! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) What I particularly appreciate about your request is: You have a real deep confidence in the sustainable operation of this federal government, because you already award orders beyond this legislative period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Until 2005!]] This indicates that you wish this federal government a long life. We will be very happy to fulfill this wish. Mrs Glavischnig! Ladies and gentlemen! There is often the accusation of policy that it is only based on short-term periods and issues that policy is only able to think sectorally. The current Federal Government raises the questions of the future. This Federal Government takes the questions of the future seriously and has therefore taken it upon itself to develop long-term foundations for our country with this strategy of sustainability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These long-term principles and strategies are also necessary because it is simply and simply about how we can secure the economically sound basis for our country permanently, economically successfully. Secondly, it is about how we can ensure the social balance of political decisions and thus achieve the goal of social justice in the long term. [[Abg. Oellinger: You've already played that!]] And, of course, it is a question of setting the political framework in such a way that, in the end, all measures will be reviewed not only for their environmental tolerance but also adapted to meet the long-term objective of environmental tolerance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! With this concept, we have put on the table a socio-political concept, which makes the following very clear: [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you do this without your party?]] We need economic success in order to achieve social justice. In the same way, however, it must be clear that environmental compatibility must be ensured so that long-term economic success is possible. We will not allow the attempt to create an overall strategy with individual ideas and individual building blocks being picked out. I will not let that happen as the one responsible for it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] With this concept of sustainable development, we go a way through which quality of life and security not only for today, but also for tomorrow and the day after, are the guiding principle that we want to offer and ensure to people in our country, especially those who want to have exactly the same quality of life, security and economics in the future. – This is sustainable development. Ladies and gentlemen! A good witness is being given to us internationally. I would remind you of the study of the University of Yale, which states that Austria, as far as the sustainability scale is concerned, is in place 7 worldwide. This puts us in third place in the European Union. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. I'm sorry.]] I mean, we don't need a comparison to be shy, but we're absolutely good! We are pursuing ambitious goals with this strategy. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to draw up some important and central objectives, because it is important to have the overall review in this context. With this sustainability strategy, we have confirmed that we do not want to make new debts in this country in the long term. This is an essential aspect of the attractiveness of the economic location, ladies and gentlemen, but also of the citizens, because a permanent budget is the most solid social policy for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] With this budgetary policy, we want to finally give a future and not live on pump – we want to end with a strategy that ultimately puts policy at the expense of the future. We have a second major goal in this sustainability concept, which you, Madam Members, have kept silent: We have established the clear objective of reducing the tax and tax rate to 40 percent by 2010. The aim is therefore to: discharge and tax reduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is also crucial for the economic future in this country. Ladies and gentlemen! It is, of course, legitimate and necessary – precisely to this end, this sustainability strategy and, of course, I recognise as the political leader – that a discussion is taking place on the question of the tax structure. This is to be required, of course, with regard to the environmental and economic effects of the tax system and also with regard to social compatibility, i.e. distribution effect. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] It is therefore legitimate that we address this long-term approach in this sustainability strategy. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't even do this in the short term!]] A minister of the environment who does not advocate that the environmental dimension in the tax system not only be taken into account but improved, ladies and gentlemen, would not be in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] In this sense, I think that the strategy of sustainable development is exactly that concept. But – and don't explore it! – Sustainability does not mean highlighting only one aspect, but sustainability means seeing economic, environmental and social issues as equivalent concerns. It is therefore entirely legitimate to ask, for example, how the greening of the tax system can be seen in the European context. It is also fully legitimate to debate, for example, the question of the social distribution effect of fiscal measures, including eco-tax measures. Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore advocate a fair and open discussion. I therefore invite you, in the sense of this dialogue, to go along with this discussion process – then we really have a common future perspective. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Don't hang in the back!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] The debate we are currently holding – and that is quite clearly said – is being held by the Austrian Federal Government with the clear objective of discharge, because discharge is necessary, provided it is actually realized in the economic sense and in the context of the strategy not to make new debts. However, with this sustainability strategy, we have also provided for long-term security measures in the generation contract – close You don't have this discussion either! – for example, with regard to the perspective in pension provision with the pension reform that we have set, or for example with the "reparation new". I think we really have a jewel for long-term security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Pretty pale jewel!]] In this concept of sustainability, you also do not agree with the discussion on a solidarity and human society. I think, for example, that we have taken a very decisive step with family hospice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We differ from other European countries, for example Belgium, which we consider to be inhuman and inhuman. We go the other way, the path of a human and solidarity society, for example, with the childcare allowance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: You can see that!]] In the sense of sustainability and sustainability strategy, as can be read in this brochure, ladies and gentlemen, we also give a clear perspective for education, science and research. The university reform that we decided this week in the Council of Ministers contains, for example, the perspective of sustainable security at the educational and research location of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! This sustainable design also affects the environmental part in the narrower sense. We are in favour of a modern environmental policy, and we are doing it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where?]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Who?]] This is a feasible environmental policy, and we realize it. For example, they have agreed to the concept of the Waste Management Act and in this context they state that this is an essential step towards sustainable development. I think we have made an essential law on sustainable development with the Forest Law. And we will take further steps on the basis of this excellent concept, which you yourself have praised, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Oillinger: Explain that to the FPÖ!]] Of course, we also have our commitments. In the context of the European Union at the Gothenburg Summit, we have agreed to develop such a concept, and I would like to thank all the parties involved from the other ministries, from the social partners, the NGOs, the federal states, who are working on this strategy paper, which the Federal Government has decided on. [[Abg. Oillingers: You have in the government loud fundis as a partner!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, as I have already said, we will be one of the first countries in Europe with its own strategy concept! We have thus made a significant contribution to the fact that we are prepared for the World Summit in the late summer of this year and are bringing something with us, not only empty words, but very concrete concepts for implementation, which we also see as an answer to globalisation fears. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] People expect these answers, and we have them! [[Abg. Oils: And when do you do it?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: (To Green) Don't be so impatient!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I therefore invite you: Continue to participate in this dialogue of citizens! This strategy of sustainability – and this is my goal in this discussion – is intended to lead to a serious debate on the future that meets the goal of long-term orientation, seriosity and the overall approach! [[Abg. Oillinger: Please don’t preach on Sunday!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Support us on the way that we make this sustainability a matter of citizens! [[Abg. Oils: That's it!]] It is our common objective that Austria should have this concept of sustainability. And don't abuse this to one day or another. Support Rather, they are the way of sustainability!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14147	We are now entering the debate. No group has more than 25 minutes, no speaker has more than 10 minutes of speaking time. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14174	Mr President. Mr Umweltminister! If you were not as solid as I am in the Green Group, you could have problems with orientation if you were to listen to it like that. Whether you're not using any concept, you've just been calling the legendary television preachers in the United States into the hall! - Who abuses what here? Perhaps you've taken the wrong look out of habit! Perhaps you should have turned to where Mr Westenthaler, too, is sitting a little higher today. I don't know if that's gonna help. Let's now get to the point: It's not supposed to be an abuse, Mr. Federal Minister! Instead, let us use the concept together! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am not attesting to you, but I agree with you and I am quite simply convinced that you as a person and as an environmental minister – we have also informed ourselves about this – as well as the civil service in your house have driven the whole thing forward with acribie and with real will! I don't question that at all! But all the more tragic are the follow-up processes to be taken by this Federal Government! But let us stick to this positive statement: It has been well prepared, even under your participation, your instructions and your requirements. Yes, I do! In this regard, we agree! I don't know what the dialogue is like. He hasn't "stirred" me yet! But I am very willing to make a proposal on our part: On the basis of the many positive points of this strategy approach, we are here today proposing that four-party discussions be held in the coming weeks on the key points of this strategy approach to sustainability, including with the participation of the Minister of Finance, which I think is very useful, with the participation of your person and with the participation of the representatives of the parliamentary parties on environmental and financial issues. In these discussions, we should, of course, not dispute that there must be no increase in the tax and tax rate under the title of environmental re-taxation. – That will probably be the working concept in terms of your guiding goal 8! If the parties cannot agree on other ways, such as where, why, and how many different charges are to be reduced, since the pre-election contest has already begun, this can be prevented by a certain logical minimum exercise of the proposed species. Environmental re-control could begin with a non-conventional state. This is intellectually easy to make; many of us will be able to follow this thought! Then we can finally discuss the restructuring of the tax system in a sensible way. Then, for example, we can talk about the fact that pollution emissions and environmental pollution are no longer tax-free in essential areas, while work is exorbitantly taxed, for example by wage taxes – the latter I say, above all, towards SPÖ, because I respect the slightly different position – but also through payroll taxes and wage-related taxes. We could then understand in detail where we are working in the sense of the recontrol process. That is why I do not want to limit too much of this requirement. In any event, however, a reduction in wage-related taxes and taxes on the one hand and wage taxes on the other on the other, which affect workers who are also involved from this perspective, must be considered. – All parties can still be found on this ground after all programs have been studied. Next important point: Distribution justice: As far as the budget is concerned, we must ensure that the distribution is carried out in such a way as not to harm the poorest from the ecological re-control. It's easy: I'm only allowed to point out the "ecobonus" here. If we redistribut the revenue from this tax so that they are returned per household, then we will even compensate the poor by fee; these will finally have a plus. The objective of distribution justice could therefore also be achieved. We are open to all proposals. I should like to point out that we have been proposing a concept here for a number of years now, from which we can move on some point. However, I believe that the global objective for all parties must be the distribution justice in the sense of re-controlling! Finally, the distribution to farms is not irrelevant either. In this context, it is also possible to look at the additional wage costs. This is of course also our concept, but it should also cover with that of the ÖVP and others. This is the simple hand tool for starting such a reform. We all invite quite cordially, and I would think that no one has any reason to do this until now. We can make a brief dedication to this. Not even the government parties would have to fall into polemic wadbits. Perhaps in this case they could even use the alleged fundamental opposition as a catalyst, so that it is not always so strange between the government parties and sometimes rather embarrassingly touching at just watching! Accept this offer! It will benefit everyone, first of all the ecological tax reform and second perhaps even the performance of your government, although of course it is not our job to take care of the latter! Next point: The question as to why the Vice-Chairman finds that a Council of Ministers decision is something completely out of the air is of course not quite out of control at this point. – You should worry about that, and more in your ranks! But I can explain to you how this happened, and that describes the state of this government in the pre-election campaign phase. – The spin doctors have ammunized each other and sought out how one could still flick the respective government partner on the stuff, and then the now common mint can shots and wadel bites, in this case by the F, were proclaimed. They were looking for something that could somehow undermine the day of the so - called chancellor speech to the nation. - Oh, yeah, right! It may still remember some of the sustainability concept under Molterer! Westenthaler is already on the pirch, as it were. The mint wadle bite begins. Yes, I do! It is something completely out of the air that has no relevance at all, the only thing that remains in the self-proclaimed tax reduction race! The FPÖ itself wants to say louder, stronger and clearer than the ÖVP: We're a tax reduction party! And this goes all night: We're a tax reduction party! The advantage of this strategy is that this is just a sentence. You can also remember this for every beer tent: We're a tax reduction party! - Yes! That's your concept! That's "solid government"! That's the style of the turn! – Come on Why don't you go down from this bumpy Ross and really look at technical policy half way back, as the Minister's colleague has demanded! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The truth is relatively tragic, and of course one has to practice criticism on the part of the opposition: The night you wake up, call out: We're a tax reduction party! – But reality looks different by day! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Shame.]] In reality, you have the highest tax rate to answer in the history of the Republic! That's fact, and it's extremely worrying – colleague Glavischnig would have said: sad – that this performance is being delivered by you right now! I think that disqualifies itself! Follow our invitation, then you may come out of your embarrassing corner again! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last point: There are, of course, a number of criteria to be taken into account. I would just like to take one of them out and give Mr Böhacker, because I am not going to speak after all, straight ahead. – You will surely say here: That's great! – But what about international competitiveness? . I tell you what is very important for major reforms within the EU. Show us your initiatives within the EU! It is essential that Austria has scope and that this concept could create up to 30 000 or 40 000 jobs! – If you only read relevant Wifo studies once, you could find out. However, I would like to say something about this international competitiveness: They won't do anything forever and wait so long – that's obvious Your concept of sustainability – until the whole world has this concept. And that won't be enough for you either! For you, there must be an interplanetary equinox! If Westenthaler in "Star Wars" has not heard of eco-taxes, then no eco-taxes are introduced because the interplanetarian equation is not produced! – With these arguments you will not get far in the debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] So I'd invite you...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14300	I'd invite you to the final sentence! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14316	Thank you, Mr President. Our hope has not yet been lost. In any case, we will continue to fight for this concept, and we invite you to go on this path! In this regard, Mr Minister, you are not in the front, but at best you are in the back. But maybe you'll pick up once.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14352	The next speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14373	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A principle discussion on the greening of the tax system is extremely useful, especially when considering all other Austrian taxes and taxes in international comparison. In view of this, it is a pity that the Minister of Finance is not here today, because he could then refer to how he intends to bring Austrian VAT and income taxes at European average level and thus obtain scope for an environmental and social tax reform. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] All these questions are useful, urgent and necessary, because if the Minister of State has spoken in a word about the principle of sustainability, then one has to find out what is really sustainable in this government. – After all, the record burden on the Austrian population caused by this federal government is, ladies and gentlemen, admirable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Posch.]] The tax and tax rate has reached the historical peak of 47.3 percent. Whenever a FPÖ board meeting is held and a tax reduction is decided there, it takes a maximum of about 48 hours for the next proposal to circulate on public tax increases! Mr Böhacker! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Böhacker.]] After your last board decision, it took 48 hours for the Minister of Finance to say that he wanted to raise the basic taxes! Now you have decided again that you want to reduce taxes, but after your fascism, the introduction of eco-taxes will probably lead to a tax increase! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This means warning, serious warning! Whenever the government takes the word "tax reform" or " tax reduction" into its mouth, then a tax increase for the Austrians comes out – and that is the wrong way, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is extremely interesting – as taxes cannot be seen separately from the economic situation – how the economic situation under this black and blue government has changed: Since last year, there have been 40 000 more unemployed people in Austria. Reaction of the Federal Government: none! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] Since last year, Austria has been at the forefront of economic growth in Europe. Reaction of the Federal Government: none again! And Austria is also in the final position with regard to the development of incomes and their increase in the European comparison. Action of the Federal Government: none again! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Apparently, then, this fiscal and economic policy of the government does not just mean that the population is more burdened than ever before! It also leads to the submission of extremely negative economic data, and this is a declaration of bankruptcy for this economic policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is necessary for Austria is a tax reform that leads to more investment and employment. Therefore, as a Socialist Group, we have already tabled a legislative proposal for a tax reform at the last plenary session, which follows the following principles: All those who have been most burdened by the blue-black government, namely the small and medium-sized incomes, are most relieved with our tax reform. This is essential for social justice and economic growth in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We propose that income should be tax-free up to a tax base of € 10 000 per year and that additional income of single earners be tax-free up to a tax base of € 1,000 per month. This helps people who need it most, and this also helps to achieve economic growth in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore urgently necessary to encourage employment and growth, as a prerequisite for a good economic policy, to relieve small and medium-sized incomes in Austria! Every day that goes by, in which this black and blue government goes into inconsistency, meaningless and ineffective disputes without joining our request, is a lost day for Austria and a lost day for the Austrian economy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] I understand the nervousness at the FPÖ well! They try, as Mr Kogler rightly said, to follow the motto: There is the Lord in sleep for the Lord! now, for weeks, notorically admit that you are the tax relief party! The truth, however, sticks to your shoe heels like chewing gum! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Fallent.]] The truth is that under a FPÖ Finance Minister, the highest taxes and charges were introduced in Austria, which ever existed. You won't get rid of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pumberger.]] However, it is also a clear discharge of those parts of the Austrian economy that are willing to invest in jobs and investment. And that is why, as social democrats, we have proposed a tailor-made package for the Austrian companies of €1 billion, which is intended to reintroduce the investment-free amount that you have deleted in a new form, and which also provides that those companies that invest in the training and further training of their employees are particularly encouraged and that those small companies which may be very difficult with Basel II will come to cheaper money within the framework of a Stability Fund. – Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a matter of casting, but a specific economic policy for our enterprises! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government promises that it will reduce the tax and tax rate to 40 percent by 2010. However, every day this government is in office, it is becoming increasingly distant from this goal, because there is hardly a week in which this government does not again burden the Austrian population and increase the tax and tax rate! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Achatz.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, it is also expected that an ecologisation of the tax system according to your view is nothing but a tax increase package and no real reorientation of the Austrian economy! Blue-black means raising taxes and not easing them, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol! Therefore, as a summary, a clear statement remains: The first day, which will not be a burden for Austria, but a discharge, is the election day on which the Austrian population has the opportunity to present the bill for your politics.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14560	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14581	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to say to Mr Gusenbauer: It was a typical election speech! It was a wrong start, because we have no choice yet, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now to the Green Group. – I really want to emphasize this, because it does not happen to me frequently: I am really grateful to the Green Group for several reasons for today's urgent request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why?]] The first reason is that he gives the two government parties the opportunity to support with their parliamentary majority what the government decided a few weeks ago, Mr Kogler! Thank you for this opportunity you give us! This government has the backing of the majority of parliament as far as this strategy paper is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Second point: I was as pleased as the Minister when I read the request. I thank you for the confidence you have in this Federal Government! They say: Even in the next period, this federal government will continue to make policy! – I thank you many times for this trust! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Where's the applause?]] Third point: I am also very happy because today's debate is also a good example of how politics is understood by the government and how politics is understood by the opposition. For the government, policy is future design. We take the future seriously. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Oils.]] – Mr Commissioner, we are acting out of responsibility for the future. The opposition, on the other hand, understands politics as a daily hack and change of political change, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] I'm really not the defense officer of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] But if Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has distanced herself from something, then not from this strategy paper that she has decided to do, but from the fact that this strategy paper is being drawn into the day-to-day hack. She has distanced herself from that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] I believe that we now have a government that is not just a turnover government, but, after many years, it is a government that does not think in terms of elections, but thinks far beyond the legislative period. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] We have not only developed this concept of sustainability with stage-by-step implementation by 2005. Secondly, we have the strategy "Austria 2010" with a reduction in the tax rate to a 40 percent order. This is a long-term strategy with a threefold objective. You know that, just deny it again and again! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The threefold objective is: First, modernize Austria, relieve the second citizen and businesses and invest third in the future. And investing in the future not only means investing in research, development, technology and infrastructure, but also means investing in the preservation of a viable environment. And this is also what this Federal Government and its ministers, ladies and gentlemen, stand for. Therefore, this strategy approach in the sense of sustainability. [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Mrs. Colleague! I've often told you: The weaker your arguments, the louder the calls! Your strategy is transparent! You just have little substance to offer today! Mr Kogler, as you know, I appreciate you on the basis of your constructive work in the Financial Committee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] But if you read this request carefully... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Larifari!]] Mr President. I don't know if I'd get an order call for this expression. I don't use the term "larifari." But I say: Our clubman is right if he calls for the call "Larifari!" I've done it. What do the Greens demand? – They call on the government to do what the government has decided to do! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] What kind of application is that? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] This is really what Mr Klubobmann Khol said. He's right! It's not serious to take! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Not enough! Sit down!]] It's not an urgent request, it's a day hack! They are trying to change political little money in a matter that is really about the future of our youth, the future of the country and the preservation of a viable environment! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected the Green Group to be more serious on these issues of sustainability. – Your laughter, your calls and all that shows that [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] You do not have to bear responsibility for the future, but today you have to try to change political change here in the day-to-day hack. – It is really sad how the Green Group has developed over the years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You don't like the truth sometimes. I know! Mrs Glawischnig! I have not written, but in the protocol you can read what you have said, what is so bad in Austria: air quality, wastewater, pollutant emissions! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Read the OECD report!]] If that were the case, then Austria would have to go somewhere at 147 in an international ranking on quality of life. Look, maybe between Bangladesh and Sierra Leone. But where does Austria really seem? – It’s no coincidence: For the first time under this federal government, we are taking place worldwide in terms of quality of life, Mrs Colleague! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[New call of the abg. Dr. Glavischnig.]] Your policy of fear, pessimism and negativeism has no chance of the future! Mrs. Colleague! We trust this federal government! We trust this concept of sustainability! We know that this is not easy, because this is about environmental, economic and social aspects. And finding a balanced balance here is certainly not easy. But don't tell us how it's not going! We will explain how it is, Mrs Colleague. This is the big difference between opposition policy and government policy: You're doing bad. They spread pessimism. They say the government's not bringing anything together. – This government will implement those reforms beyond the legislative period, as you have adopted: Beyond this legislative period, this government will co-form the future of this country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] Finally, as my speaking time is already over: I am very happy about it and I know – I have said this several times from this speaker’s desk; I am convinced that this is also true of the majority of the population – that the future of this country is in good hands with this federal government.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14830	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e14904	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I have really studied the urgent request of the Greens in depth, I have also listened carefully to the speakers of the Greens, the colleague Glawischnig and colleague Kogler, but I have not been able to determine at the best of my will what is urgent about this request. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Khol.]] There is a sustainability strategy that provides for the gradual implementation of a socially balanced environmental tax reform and tax benefits by 2005. - Good, a stage plan by 2005. That's three years. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You wanted to get rid of it!]] And today this is suddenly urgent from the front-end motives, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. – I say: That is by no means urgent! You should have listened to the Minister of State: Austria is on the right track in sustainability, on the 7th. ==References====External links== Place within the EU. This can make us proud, but not overly proud. It's not supposed to mean we're gonna put our hands in the lap. On the contrary: We by the government parties and this federal government will work together to ensure that we take the lead in this area! We will not be left alone by such a urgent request! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Furthermore, Mrs Glavischnig, this request is really too short. There are 20 key targets, but you just pick one out. I know you're always baffling it now – much better than in the past: 2.50 € for the liter of petrol you want! They are not alone, even the Salzburg Environment Council Othmar Raus from the Social Democrats recently demanded an increase in the oil tax on diesel fuel by 2 s. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: After bravo! Very good!]] This is the SPÖ tax reduction party! For years people have been told that they have to switch from gas fuel to diesel, because it is ecologically better. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Who said that?]] – The Social Democrats, Mrs. Lichtenberger. Of course! And today, because many have changed, the drivers are to be asked to cash back. Mr Kogler said in his introductory words that he wanted to discuss the matter seriously. He also started serious. But he moved to the polemic side relatively quickly. He used more than three quarters of his speech for a very wild polemic against the government parties and did not argue in a serious way. Mrs Glawischnig has meant rising unemployment... – I must repeat what has been said about falsehoods! [[Abg. May. Kogler: What do you even think?]] – It has brought the comparison with Germany: The Germans have introduced environmental taxes on fuel and so on. – The comparison makes you sure, Mrs Colleague: 4.3 million unemployed in Germany, 1.7 million unemployed hidden in retrainings and other measures, final light in Europe, explosion of the budget deficit, blue letter from Brussels. This is the result of a red-green policy in Germany. God guard Austria from a red-green government! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The comparison also makes you sure in Austria: rising unemployment – regrettably enough – but Austria is not isolated from looking at it alone. In March, the average unemployment rate across Austria rose by 16 percent, and in the red Vienna, governed by an absolute majority, it rose by 30 percent! And in Carinthia with a freeman? – 7 percent! The comparison makes you sure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Where freedom of government is responsible, it is good for citizens. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Gusenbauer has again presented his tax reduction programme. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The not present!]] That's interesting: Not a single word about how he wants to finance these €3 billion in the Constitution or outside the Constitution, except for the investment rate? – This is the so-called reverse opposition. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Gusenbauer still has to consider whether he is for the zero deficit or against]] Ingrid Wendl would have a pleasure with the Pirouettes, which Collaborator Gusenbauer spins every day. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] No word about cover! I looked at how the Social Democrats want to cover the whole thing. First: 1 billion € from the non-purchasing of interception hunters. However, you know very well that the first payments, if at all, only take place in 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:... recording debts?]] So for 2003 and 2004, Mr. Gusenbauer has already already deficitd one billion € in his financing of the tax reform. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The biggest debt project at all: the interceptors!]] Secondly, Mr Gusenbauer wants to finance his tax reform from the additional employment impulse by means of additional revenue and less costs. – Absolutely, only you have to note that such refinancing steps only take place one to two years later; and again one to two billion are missing! [[Abg. May. Kogler: 1 billion schilling with every interception hunter!]] And the third thing: Mr Gusenbauer wants to make several hundred million euros out of the administrative reform. – This is a "class" compliment to Mrs. Vice Chancellor for her administrative reform! Only one thing you have to note, Mr Gusenbauer: At country level, any administrative reform is blocked by the Social Democrats. This is the double density of your policy, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Overall, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, it is true that your alleged tax reduction programme would have the budget deficit exploded. In a legislative period, €16 billion would be missing, so experts have calculated. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you want to tell us now?]] Let me tell you, Mr Cap: Think of the President of the Court of Auditors, who said a few days ago: €2.5 to €3 billion for a tax reform is not available. – President Fiedler’s statement is on the one hand a clear rejection of the SPÖ’s tax reform policy, which you should take note of! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Super saved! Super administrative reform!]] On the other hand, it is a confirmation of government policy, as President Fiedler has clearly welcomed this step-by-step approach to reducing the tax and tax rate to 40 percent of GDP by 2010 and in some steps from 1 to 1.5 billion... – Oh so! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Have you read what your partyobmann, the head of the Kärntner state, Haider, says about this? Did you read that?]] Do you want to cut off the shark? There you are on a good path. But the copy is always worse than the original, Mr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer) I had a few more books! I'd like to give them to you for reading! I can get you an autograph too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to remind colleagues from the Greens – some of them not yet in the House – that there has been a very intense discussion about environmental tax reform a few years ago. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you want to tell us?]] There was broad consensus at the time. You may remember that the "standard" has brought a long series about environmental tax reform. But the government back then was unable to implement a sensible, sustainable, socially balanced environmental tax reform. I would like to say one thing to you This successful reform government will be [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig]] Indeed, they assume that this will be possible until 2005 and later, an environmental tax reform that makes sense, which really relieves the labour factor and more tax resources. But these are not individual measures, as you would like to do here, namely to pick out the raisins for frontal, small-cared and party-political reasons. In conclusion, I would like to say the following: This Federal Government will not allow a gas price of 2.50 € under a free financial minister. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: The environmental destruction benefits! "Super"!]] It will not allow any increase in the oil tax on diesel fuel, as the socialists call it. [[Abg. May. Kogler: And continue to block the truck toll!]] – The truck toll is – under quotations – "not on the motorway, but on rails", and You can be sure that this federal government will implement it in the appropriate form and in good time. We don't need to say every day: We're a tax reduction party. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: This is self-hypnosis!]] It is very surprising only: Mrs Glawischnig! Its introductory phrase on the urgent request reads as follows: "It is undisputed that Austria should not increase the tax and tax rate in the next few years." – What does that mean in the clear text? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Exactly! After this load package!]] – They can open the back door for a tax increase: "no increase is to come." That is, you are not willing to say that there must be no tax increase. With this rate of introduction you have also adopted a tax reduction. That is why we will certainly not agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15244	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please. (Interruption of the Abg. You son of a bitch. - Abg. Dr. Khol: The little brother has no idea!)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15272	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, you too make it extremely easy for me to replicate you, Mr Minister, on you, Mr Böhacker, as well as on Mr Dr. Stumbling, who has not been present. [[Abg. That's positive!]] First to you, Minister! You have clearly pointed out here that with a nonchalance bad, with a smile that is just too sovereign, with a gesture that is very convincing, child-moving. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Too much praise!]] [[Abg. Achatz: "Souveran" is not bad!]] You have shown that you are simply putting away your own concept, your own implementation plan, your own package of measures towards the change of taxes and that you are avoiding sustainability concepts, on guidelines, on strategies. [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer weighs the study entitled "The Austrian Strategy for Sustainable Development. An initiative of the Federal Government." like a baby in the arm.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Be careful! Sudden child death!]] They're gonna get out of here! You have sustainability as a child in your arms, but you put the implementation away. That's the problem. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: (in the direction of Federal Minister Mag. Molterer) Don't strangle it, Minister!]] What can be done in concrete terms, what you have already decided at ministerial level, you deny. And why? - Because the FPÖ wants it that way! [[Abg. May. Kukacka: You don't believe that yourself!]] This is again a clear sign that the ÖVP is simply in the catch – I could almost say: in the claws, I could almost say: in the chains – the FPÖ is lying.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15416	The "trailers" are acceptable, the "claws" are not allowed as an expression, Mrs Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15435	I have used the conjunctiv II, Mr President, the "coniunctivus irregularis" – that is the expression you find when looking at grammar. [[Call the liberals:... look up in grammar!]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] In any case, it is clear that the ÖVP has been moving more and more towards FPÖ in the last four weeks. This has been shown in the answer to the various rallys and in the so-called tax reform debate – in fact, it is a "cooling leaf" – and this is also evident in the question of ecologizing the tax system. The ÖVP puts its children away, the ÖVP has no more identity, the ÖVP responds to calls from Carinthia. [[Abg. Böhacker: You say that three times every day!]] That's the point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call to the liberals: This is irregular!]] Minister! You have understood this today really shiny to convey. You have repeatedly said that you have a sustainability concept. - They keep it in their hands. You said you have a clue: Quality of life, safety. You said you have a pension reform, a family hospice model, a jewel, called settlement, but what you didn't say is that you – the ÖVP – have a concept in itself and that the FPÖ now does not allow you to implement it. You should have explained that to us! This urgent request also serves this purpose. In particular, it serves to ensure that you have the opportunity of voting as a member of a government party for your Minister and for the Council of Ministers here and today. [[Abg. Achatz: That's decided!]] I'm curious if you're finally standing up to what your government is doing or whether you're playing opposition as usual – opposition to your own ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Oh, that's it, now it's decided at once?]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Do the Greens always have to confirm what they are doing?]] This is the pitfall, Mrs Achatz. [[Abg. Achatz: That's decided!]] I am curious about how you, as the stand representative of a group that could very well live on the fact that ecologists are now voting out your own ministerial concept. - That's the jumping point. [[Abg. Böhacker: The Council of Ministers decided to implement it in Parliament!]] There is a long list, a legend of concepts and guidelines. Mr. Minister, I remind you of the NUP. The NUP has been decided for a long time, but it is not implemented. That is exactly what we fear in the approach already adopted in the Council of Ministers, for which there is already a practical test. How to control the future differently, taking into account the economy, the social aspects, the technology aspects, the future aspects, is "checked"; the worst is done. You only need to implement it more, and for this implementation I am going to give you the following: not only the many studies that exist in this regard, not only the many expertises of Professor Schneider and so on, not only the many examples in other countries where the same is implemented, but also a quote from a book for managers. Minister! They are managers in the Federal Government. Arnulf Grübler writes in his book "Technology and Global Change", published in the publishing house "Cambridge University Press", a manager of economics and technology, and concludes with the following words: The only promising strategy is to keep learning from successes as well as from failure. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You have to translate that! You have to translate this for the liberals!]] – Minister! Learn! - No, out of mistakes! [[Abg. Böhacker: "Suit in grammar!"]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15607	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. The voluntary time limit is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15628	Mr President. Federal Minister! [[Call the Freeman: Watch out!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Why are you there – and not the Lothar Matthew?]] On the one hand, I regret that such an important matter, namely the ecologisation of the tax system, so easily introduced into Parliament, is not self-confidently presented and does not offer at all the opportunity to actually express his attitude on these issues completely emotion-free, but that it thus shames the light of the public. I believe that the "profile" feels a lot of what I have felt, namely that taxes in the eco-trudel are sinking and that the government coalition is now suddenly in suspicion of planning further tax increases instead of the promised tax reduction. It is no wonder that these days the debate on tax reform is starting again. The tax reform is being discussed at regular intervals, and it is no wonder that everyone in Austria feels the sustainability of the policy of this federal government. After all, we have to deal with the most massive tax increase in the history of our country; we have the highest tax rate in the history of our country in a sustainable way, and the government is taking the money out of the pocket to the beneficiaries of small incomes in Austria. – This is the principle of the sustainability of your policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Auer: In Vienna the Häupl!]] With 47 percent, the tax rate is the highest in the history of our country. Sustainablely, Mr. Federal Minister – you are only partly responsible for this – your policy is accompanied by a massive social reduction: Accident pension taxes, ambulance charges, unemployment benefit reduction, lack of pension adjustments, tuition fees and so on, and sustainable growth in Austria – we are therefore the most recent in the statistics of the countries of the European Union – and EU finance ministers are persistently suffocating the policy of this federal government by stating that your alleged budget consolidation is not sustainable, because you have financed it almost exclusively through tax increases. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Who took care of the sustainable debt?]] – This is the policy you have prescribed for the Austrians. The next point of sustainability: After all, you have become one of the richest industrial nations in the world from a leading country in Europe – for 30 years we have been on the trail of overcrowding, and have become one of the richest industrial nations in Europe. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Debt!]] [[Abg. Böhacker: Sustainable debt!]] The lowest income development in Europe is your "sustainable" policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore interesting to have such a discussion. There are other quotes every week. I would like to make a few comments. I take July 2001 as an example. – I could also show you this in many other examples. – In July 2001 you can read in the "Kurier": Khol, Westenthaler: The 2003 tax reform is part of the Federal Government's duty book. – Riess-Passer says a few days later: Our objective is a tax reform for small and medium-sized incomes. – Westenthaler says: Tax reform is a key issue in autumn 2001. – Gaugg’s sentence reads: Tax reform for small people is a priority. – Haider says in July 2001: In 2003, a volume of 30 billion schilling must be possible for small income recipients. And what does the Minister of Finance say? – Grasser says the same month: These promises are unscrupulous. No one can seriously promise a tax reduction for 2003. [[Abg. Neudeck: But that was not the nobler who said that!]] – In the same month he calls Khol, Westenthaler, Riess-Passer, Gaugg and Haider unserious. – A correct knowledge, but unfortunately without any effect. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: The Edlinger said in 1999 that the tax reform cannot be financed!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! You have to bring this together first. I took over the budget with a deficit of over 5 percent and handed it over with 2 percent. 3 percent deficit reduction without social dumping – that was the policy of the former Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: What about Rapid, Mr Edlinger?]] Now a new discussion begins: ==References== In January 2002, Federal Chancellor Schüssel spoke of the aim of reducing the tax and tax rate to less than 40 percent. It is true that the honourable Member says: Muted a few days later: If we want to relieve citizens of €11 billion by 2010 – around 170 billion schilling – we have to save €1.5 billion annually – some 20 billion schilling – from 2003 onwards. Where are your concepts, if you really want to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent by 2010 – according to the principle of sustainability – if you are not actually starting with ecologisation until 2005? [[Abg. Böhacker: Make sustainable debts!]] If you want to pay exactly from 2005 on the largest debt project currently under way, namely the purchase of the interception hunters, how do you want to get a 40 percent tax rate? – You have to explain this to the public once too, and not just give air bubbles, as is the case now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is as wrong as yours...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! One last comment: In all the public statements of members of the Federal Government, the term "ecology" has never occurred at all. A few days ago, I read in the press, Mr. Finanzminister, that tax benefits should fall: Overtime, special expenses, diets. What does that mean? [[Abg. Böhacker: Just quote!]] Who will receive these benefits? – The counterparts, the Sunday and holiday workers, the workers who are subject to special burdens, in the form of overtime remuneration, dirt and difficulties allowances. What do you want? You're doing it? [[Abg. Böhacker: Who said that?]] – They want to reduce the additional wage costs. They want to use the poorest and most privileged ones in the labour market to provide companies with the reliefs contained in your work programme. That's the redistribution you're doing, and that's what you have to say in public! Not a word from ecology, but you're running a classic redistribution policy, just from bottom to top! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that people feel this to an increasing extent. For example, once Mr Westenthaler in January said that the FPÖ wanted a turn in the money bag, I immediately put my hand on the wallet in fear, but the hand of Grasser was already inside. You can't react so quickly at all. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: This is the cheapest shame there is! They don't even believe that at the party assembly! That's under your dignity!]] If Mr Westenthaler says tax reduction for the little ones, what does he mean? I'll tell you: 30 billion in 2002, otherwise the government failed. - Follow your Mr. Westenthaler! I also believe that this government has already failed and that you will soon be presented with the invoice. (Applause from the SPÖ. – Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15906	The next speaker is Mr Schwarzenberger. Estimated speaking time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e15927	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Edlinger is particularly talking about sustainability, I must answer him: Debt policy was sustainable when he was Minister of Finance, for the subsequent generations who are still charged with interest and repayment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Edlinger is a Vienna by chance. What does the absolute majority of SPÖ in Vienna mean? What kind of "sustainable" burden do citizens have to bear? – The tram and subway ticket is to be priced by up to 25 percent, the waste disposal fee by up to 15 percent, and even the kindergartens are to become more expensive by up to 7 percent. – This is "sustainable" policy of a SPÖ government alone, as it is presented to us in Vienna. That's not how we want the Federal Government to keep it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the urgent request submitted today, the Greens asked the Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry, to take their own Council of Ministers decision of 30 June. By April 2002 implementing an Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy, in particular the objective of a gradual implementation of a socially balanced environmental tax reform and tax benefits by 2005. It is quite strange that an opposition party – and I do not doubt that the SPÖ will also give its approval to this urgent request – will call on the government to continue during the next legislative period, because 2005 is already in the next legislative period, ladies and gentlemen, very much appreciated! For this proof of confidence in this government, we must be grateful to the opposition to and for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This one point, however, is only a tax in the discussion. This sustainable strategy package sets out 20 objectives. It cannot be reduced to a single goal, but it is a long-term programme. The transition to sustainable development is a challenge that requires a fundamental, comprehensive reorientation of all areas of life in politics, society and the economy. It is important to promote a development that meets the needs of today's generation without endangering the potential of future generations, for in the past future generations have been burdened. One has, as it were, built up one's own standard of living at the expense of the future generations. The EU has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 8 per cent by 2012 and Austria by even 13 per cent, below the 1990 level. The main measures to achieve this objective are to increase energy efficiency and increase the use of renewable energy sources. The share of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption is expected to be doubled from 6 percent to 12% in the EU by 2010. We have already completed the practical test in Austria. In Austria, the share of renewable energy is already 12 percent and could still be doubled to 24 percent by 2012. We have huge reserves, especially in biomass. There are, of course, also measures. I only mention as an example: We have a housing promotion in Salzburg, according to which there is more housing support for the square meter with renewable energy – without hydropower, but through biomass or solar panels – for every square meter by 1000 S. The result is that 74 percent of all newly funded Salzburg buildings are already equipped with biomass heating plants in 2002. Here you can already see that policies can achieve very essential objectives. On and on, we also have sustainability as an agricultural policy goal. Minister of Agriculture and later Deputy Chancellor Joschi Riegler designed the eco-social agricultural policy in 1987. Minister Molterer was in his office at the time and has been responsible for this eco-social agricultural policy. If Austria already spends 40 percent of the total EU funding for environmental measures and another 20 percent for mining promotion, this shows that we are already spending 60 percent on this sustainability, while on the European average, only 20 percent are invested for this sustainability. In Agenda 2000, Austria again took a top place with the second pillar, rural development. 10 percent of all funds spent in the European Union for the second pillar benefit Austrian farmers alone. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At national level, Austria has so far set considerable emphasis on sustainable development. An international study, the sustainability index, is giving a good witness to Austria. Austria – which Mr Böhacker has already mentioned – has reached the seventh place among the 142 countries under investigation. As regards quality of life, Austria has already taken first place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! ==References== A strategy on sustainable development adopted in the Council of Ministers on April was drawn up, with a broad participation, by all departments, the countries, the municipalities, the social partners, in the context of the principle of long-term security of an ecological, economic and socially successful future formulated at the World Summit on Environment and Development in Rio de Janeiro in 1992. Our Federal Government has worked successfully for two years. In the interests of the Austrians, we wish her to continue to implement the reforms so successfully and not only for the next legislative period, but also for the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16031	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Fallent. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16052	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are already used to it, ladies and gentlemen, Edlinger is subject to a sustainable error. We can live with it. Whether you can live with it, you have to ask yourself. You probably have to live with it. [[Abg. Edlinger: I didn't understand you sustainablely!]] - Well, that speaks for you. [[Abg. Edlinger: I think so!]] - I think so. [[Abg. Edlinger: Because you talk so strangely!]] Your speech, Mr Gusenbauer, has been concerned about what you have failed on the part of SPÖ for 30 years. Thank you for that! Now you know why we have a little harder to do everything we want. To the address of the Greens: I would like to deal with the urgent request. They demand that we implement our decisions in the first sentence of the request. They write in the second sentence of the application that the determined objective of a gradual implementation of a socially balanced environmental tax reform should continue to be implemented by 2005. This is a contradiction in itself! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why?]] Learn to read and learn to understand! Read the guiding goal. [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Listen! Learn to read and read the target number eight. What's there? The key objective of the strategy is therefore to address implementation. – There is a great difference between the use of implementation by 2005 and its implementation by 2005. So your request is a contradiction. I would ask that in future applications which have a contradiction in themselves no longer be approved. They do it like the SPÖ. The SPÖ has made urgent requests for a tax increase and ultimately has provided discussion contributions that should result in a tax reduction. I would now like to say what we are confessing to: First of all, we are committed to not deciding once again what is already in force and what is decided not to do. That's what we're confessing. Secondly, we are committed not to increasing taxes and taxes. Thirdly, we do not believe that you, Mrs Glavischnig, should not be a tax reduction. Instead, we believe, and we pledge to reduce taxes permanently. Therefore, the goal of the sustainability strategy is to reduce the tax and tax rate to less than 40 percent by 2010. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are committed by the Federal Government and the Freedom Party, but also to the sustainable and sustainable development of Austria. As the Federal Minister has said, it must be designed economically viable, ecologically meaningful and socially sound. [[Abg. Silhavy: You don't notice anything about that!]] I'll tell you where to find something: The Federal Government has already proved through many reforms that it is in line with these principles of sustainability, and now you are taking care to call for Mrs Colleague – the restructuring of the state budget – sustainability. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mr Gusenbauer and the SPÖ have called for the zero deficit to be incorporated into the Constitution. Do you know what that meant? – That you had committed a breach of constitution for 30 years. You can easily demand it now because we've done it now. You never did it. But now he doesn't know exactly, is he still supposed to be of this opinion, or is he supposed to think something different?- Oh, my God! We do not need a constitutional rank, we are committed to this policy of freedom of debt, of balanced budgets. We have put in place many family policies, including childcare. You probably forgot. [[Abg. Silhavy: Accident pension tax and ambulance charges!]] We have decided on an economic package, more money for research and development. In a first step, we have implemented an administrative reform that you have never achieved, because you are blocking it in the countries. We have taken a first step towards the sustainable design of the health care and pension system. We have decided on an integration agreement that makes sense. We have tried to master the fight against drugs and child abuse through tougher penalties, and we are committed to the fact that Temelín is not going into operation – proof that we are on the right track. For comparison, the red-green government in Germany shows us how not to do it. Ladies and gentlemen! Unemployment, debt and a stagnating economy are the result of a missing policy, Mrs Colleague! [[Abg. Silhavy: Do you know the latest unemployment rates in Austria?]] You don't want to do that, but that's it. It is also similar in Austria at SPÖ: A policy of debt, waste, proportion, privileges and constraints is the result. We have taken over this heritage, ladies and gentlemen, even if you do not believe it! This is just this sustainable error that you are subject to, and therefore it is important that you no longer be in government responsibility for a long time. This makes the ÖVP and the liberals better. With regard to environmental tax reform: The SPÖ's proposal to increase fuel prices by 2 s and the Green proposal to raise fuel prices to 30 s endanger the Austrian economic location. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That's not true!]] That's not our way, Mrs. Colleague! That's not our way. That's true, read the protocols! Don't forget, and don't be blind, as Mrs Glavischnig has said, said, and blames us. Ladies and gentlemen! Einstein said: I am primarily interested in the future, for that is the time in which I will live. . We, ladies and gentlemen, this Federal Government, FPÖ and ÖVP are committed to this future. When you read this strategy carefully, you will see that there are fields of action, namely to ensure the quality of life in Austria permanently, to design and maintain Austria as a dynamic economic location, to preserve habitats in Austria, to be aware of Austria's responsibility. These are the challenges and strategies of our policy, of a policy that has a future and which secures and improves the quality of life – we are very far ahead – for the Austrians, namely for all Austrians, not only for some Austrians who are privileged. The basis for such a policy, ladies and gentlemen, are solid finances. That is solid government budgets, that is, no new debt, and we confess to that. This means a tax relief for the population, with the aim of having a tax and tax rate below 40 percent in 2010. In this context, however, we want to achieve a stronger tax burden on the resource factor and a relief of the labour factor. We want to reward efficiency and economy. We want to reward the use of renewable resources. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a policy that can be seen. Help you achieve these goals! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Being green alone is too little. You saw it at Temelín. You were not even able to find an expert representing your position. That was sad enough in the committee. I would like to say to the SPÖ: You should not forget the past, but you should not hinder us in the design of the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16209	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. The remaining speaking time of the Greens is 10 minutes. The voluntary time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16230	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Fallent was just a "classical" example of hollow phrases. No proposal, Mr Fallent, no specific detailed proposal for an environmental tax reform from your mouth in this House today! That is significant: no ideas, no concepts and a policy of refusal that threatens the future of Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Fallent: Read the strategies!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Mr Pirklhuber! Here is an extensive concept!]] On the other hand, I would like to bring you a quote that has been a few years old: An intelligent environmental tax reform is at the heart of the eco-social market economy. It mobilises future-looking technologies and products, gives people more opportunities for work and secures future generations an intact environment. Therefore, act quickly, because other EU countries are already further away than we are. - Quote. This quote comes from a 1999 brochure "Ecological tax reform – more jobs, better environment, serious climate protection". Ladies and gentlemen! The quote comes from Dipl.-Ing. Josef Riegler, an unknown figure, a very important figure for the ecologicalisation of agriculture in Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Our party observer!]] This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen, and this is also the test stand on which you, Federal Minister Molterer, must insist. These demands have not been taken out of the air. That is why, Mr Böhacker, it is also urgent. It is urgent because these failures have been costing a lot of money to Austrian taxpayers for the next decade and also destroying many potential jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister Molterer! I agree with you that you are not long environmental ministers, but you have been a considerable time in agriculture ministers. They put forward a concept in which – I quote again – on page 40 under "Promoting sustainable products and services": "The focus of the agricultural policy is on the conservation and expansion of the positive environmental effects (maintenance and re-establishment of landscape elements, maintenance of ecologically valuable areas, etc.) and a further reduction in the negative environmental impacts of agricultural activities (pesticide use, mineral fertilisers, nutrient eradication, soil erosion), promotion of organic farming and other environmentally friendly ways of... stand." – Ladies and gentlemen! That's in this concept. Mr Umweltminister! You're on the test stand now. What is the reality in Austria? – In concrete terms in the field of landscape elements, in the environmental programme 2000, which you have always greatly praised, you have removed this requirement as a prerequisite for the award of environmental services, the new plant of landscape elements. This is one of your implementations of this strategy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] What is happening in the area of reducing pesticides? – You voted against the ÖVP, you asked us to the Pranger because we demand a pesticides action programme to reduce the use of pesticides. The Federal Minister has so far failed to do so – to read in the Green Report 2000, which he no longer wants to discuss in this House. That's how you deal with it, Minister of State! He has been in the committee, not finished in the House. You know. We could have discussed in detail that you have not achieved anything so far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is what the Committee decided, not the Minister!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: I am not entitled to vote, Mr Pirklhuber!]] In promoting organic farming, you have, as it were, given us a shot in front of the bug. They have reduced the funding for organic farming associations, already in 2001, sustainable in 2002. These are the signals of an Environment Minister, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: The administration reduces, but more is given to the farmers!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: The organic farmers got more!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: The AMA!]] [[Federal Minister Mag. Molterer: The organic farmers!]] Now, on the core area of environmental tax reform, on the basic issue you have raised today. Mr. Federal Minister! You have claimed here in your speech that you should not take any individual measures, select no individual measures. That's exactly what you're doing. They call for the reduction of the price of diesel in the agricultural sector from the ÖVP and you, Mr Federal Minister. This is an insanity from the point of view of ecological recontrol! I cannot offer, on the one hand, a concept for eco-tax reform, to discuss and, on the other hand, to cut down on agricultural diesel, even though this may still be the case in other European countries. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! This is not consistent, it is not stringent, and there you are all on the whole failing, Mr Environment Minister. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, it would be good for you to come in front of your own door instead of giving good advice to the opposition. Finally, put forward a detailed concept, Mr. Federal Minister! We're waiting! Then we are also ready to contribute to good concepts.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16406	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kubitschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16427	Ladies and gentlemen! One has almost the impression that the word "sustainability" has become a new favorite word of the government parties. But in the government's division, sustainability seems to mean about as much as "never comes about". [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In my vocabulary, however, the word "sustainability" has a different meaning. For example, I would use it in connection with the sustainable chaos left by the government in the context of the tax debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, the surprising thing is that at the end of each so chaotic discussion there is always a very concrete proposal – unfortunately a very concrete proposal on new tax increases and on new taxes. This begins with the proposal by Minister Grasser, for example, to increase the basic tax, and is going to end again until the recent announcements, also by Minister Grasser, a whole sluggish of tax advantages for workers. Tax reductions are announced, tax increases and taxes are ultimately carried out: since the start of this government to a level of 111.5 billion schilling or in euro – as it doesn't sound so bad – 8,1 billion €. This makes 20 percent increase in the tax burden in just two years. However, in view of these data, the government no longer considers tax reform to be an ever-increasing burden. Ladies and gentlemen! A debate on a tax reform, as suggested by the Greens today, is certainly necessary, but such a debate, I believe, presupposes a debate on the distribution of the tax burden in Austria. If such a debate is to be held seriously, the following results will be achieved very quickly: The labour factor in Austria is much higher than the capital factor. This can be clearly demonstrated by many international comparisons. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that the existing tax system gives capital a competitive edge over work, and this competitive advantage is particularly dramatic in Austria. All considerations on a tax reform must therefore be considered, in our opinion, to be a priority to relieve labour. In essence, the Greens' request is also based on this. If this principle is accepted, ladies and gentlemen, then there is still a very crucial question. The question arises whether to reduce service providers' taxes, i.e. additional wage costs, or on the other hand, employees' taxes, i.e. wage taxes. At the latest, ladies and gentlemen, the spirits seem to separate – apparently also the red and the green. The only thing on which the government has so far been able to clearly determine itself is a reduction in additional labour costs, and the greens also seem to be primarily based on a reduction in additional labour costs. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For the competitiveness of the economy, additional wage costs are not relevant, but total wage costs – that is, exactly the unit labour costs in relation to the trading partners that define the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. In the last five years, this cost position has developed in favour of Austria by almost 10 percentage points. I therefore see no reason for starting with a reduction in pay-related taxes on the share of the service providers – especially if the wage tax has increased significantly higher than those share of the service provider. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition to the cost reduction, the proportion of entrepreneurs in social security systems is reduced; in the other hand, it means that the proportion of employees is increasing or that benefits may be reduced – this bill is quite simple. We therefore believe that a reduction in additional labour costs is not the right way. We believe that the Austrian workers have now paid enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It may not be that the cost reduction is so to speak, and, on the other hand, the workers have to put the rolls off the cake, so to speak. The SPÖ has therefore also chosen another way: We are concerned with strengthening mass purchasing power. To this end, we want to reduce wage and income tax, especially for small and medium-sized incomes, because this is exactly the group that has been most heavily taxed by the government. We are also concerned with creating jobs by, for example, proposing that the investment activities of companies be supported by an investment-free amount that is used to increase investment. Ladies and gentlemen! We see our proposal for a wage tax reduction as an emergency measure, so to speak, to counter the economic crisis and, on the other hand, to compensate for the decline that Austria had to take in the development of real income under this government. Of course, medium and long-term imbalances in the Austrian tax system must be effectively offset. That means, of course, such a long-term reform would also have to contain control elements as they have discussed the Greens today. In this sense, I am also quite on this line.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16518	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. The watch is gladly set to 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16540	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! On today's request of the Greens: It's basically not that bad, and it's not that much to put into it except – that's, I think, the essential – the total narrowing of the term "sustainability". Unfortunately, you have not understood the term "sustainability" at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We understand sustainable development as a guide, a long-term environmental, social, economic and employment policy across government periods and across national borders. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Guide far away!]] It is much more than the green request. You shorten the discussion, you really want to – that's easy to see – to have nothing but a tax discussion. That is too simple, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The best example today was Mrs Glavischnig, who presented himself here today as a "toughe" opposition politician. Only: Unfortunately, it has gone well, because you have confused apples with pears and some misunderstandings, especially the term "sustainability". Let me briefly explain this in the German tax reform you have praised: The German tax reform looks like the large capital companies have been relieved and the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are known to create most jobs, have been more taxed than before. – This is your sustainability policy? In Germany, this development has led to a dramatic collapse of corporate tax, and, particularly interesting, in Germany, the tax and tax rate is 56.6 percent, which is 1.5 percentage points more than before the red-green government coalition. – This is your sustainability? In Germany, it was also very interesting to argue for the red-green sustainability: The introduction of eco-taxes means lower pension contributions. If you put it into practice, that means: If you drive more cars, secure the pension system. – This is red-green sustainability? – I say to you: The voters save us from red-green sustainability! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] They have brought the example of Germany. I'm just trying to show you where this is going, but you know that very well anyway. You want to go there too, ladies and gentlemen. What I blame you for today is the following: Unfortunately, they misuse this broad-based approach of the Austrian Sustainable Strategy to force a debate on a tax increase. - We're not going to do that! Rather, the aim of this federal government was – and it was set at the very beginning – and it is still not to make new debts and to reduce the tax and tax rate to 40 percent in the long term by 2010. This is our sustainability strategy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16611	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. The remaining speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16633	Ladies and gentlemen! A lucid moment in the government: the Greens want to praise them, the Greens want to say: This eco-tax model, the relief of work and the burden of resource consumption will finally be implemented! Now I listen to this debate, compare the speeches of the liberals with those of the People's Party and ask myself: Was this a withdrawal movement from the words of Vice-Chairman Riess-Passer, because the Member called Fallent quite objectives, or was again the motto that always seems to exist when the People's Party and the Freedom Arm are in arms and it is about ecology, namely: Not now, not here and not with us!Unknown term type: "%s".? You, ladies and gentlemen, have a tax concept which actually reduces the benefits for the disadvantaged in society and distributes them up, namely where foundations are sitting and where those who have already fallen on the butter side are at home. There you want to carry out your tax relief! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Lowering taxes is good, but in whom taxes are reduced and who then gets no more benefits, that is the central question for justice within society. You're having a hard time dealing with the question of ecology, I'm clear. Mr Commissioner stupidly thanked us for the long and broadness of confidence in the Minister and still defended Riess-Passer with the words that she did not mean it when she said it would not be. Let's just ask them again, and let's just quote what's in APA broadcasts, namely: Ecologisation of the tax concept not now. - Then when? Ladies and gentlemen! If it were a matter of concern to you, you'd have to do it. Mr President, I would like to speak to you very stupidly. – They have talked a lot about the quality of life in Austria and that all of us are so good ecologically. Let me take a look at Mr Klubobmann. If you drive through the Inn Valley, you will see that the measurement values there are already far above the EU standards, which are extremely generous, that the pollution situation in this valley is dramatic – and that measures are not taken against it. On the contrary! It was your government that once again supported international truck diesel subsidies abroad to send even more trucks through our country, to pollute our air and to paralyze the Alpine valleys. When it comes to maintaining ecological quality, exactly the opposite measures are required. And finally, Her old game with the 30 p. – I still offer the bet: If you can prove to me that I once demanded these 30 s, then you won a bet. But I'll tell you, you won't succeed. This claim simply does not become more true, even if you repeat it so often. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] If you want to continue to favor the diesel, ask Please tell the doctors what does diesel soot to damage and how it contributes to cancer development! Then you can talk about sustainability for the first time!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16705	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 673/A (E) by Dr Glawischnig, colleagues on the implementation of the Federal Government's eco-tax concept, to create work – to relieve the environment. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. [[The Green Members rise from their seats.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fischer is mistakenly raised from his place and remains standing.]] [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] – This is still the minority. The request is therefore rejected. Short debate on the reply to the question 3579/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16753	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for the Interior with the order number 3579/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I would ask Mr Cap to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16790	Mr President. High house! We have made a request to the Causa Civil Defense and have been fed with answers that are actually inconceivable and from which we have to conclude that the Minister is not aware of the political significance of this initiative at all. That is why, I believe, it is necessary for us to go a little deeper here in the context of the discussion of this question response. This is also the opportunity for Mr Strasser to express himself a little more comprehensively. On question 1, when we asked how he was informed, he said that he had been informed of the subject mainly through media reports. – This is very "remarkable" because I can imagine that there must have been some sort of downfall in the Graz police department, that there should be a civil defence, and obviously there seems to be no information channel from Graz to Vienna, no evaluation, nothing, but the Minister is simply bored the daily newspaper and has to register: There is a civil defence which does not appear as a term due to its answers in the Austrian legal system. So he saw no reason to give real reasonable answers to the questions we have asked. We will request these answers today so that you can finally say more than you did in this reply to the question, Mr Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What must have happened after two years of black and blue government in this country, that a government party must initiate a civil defence? – That is, I believe, an important question to be answered. According to the FPÖ, Austria seems to have become more insecure in these two years. According to the FPÖ, in these two years Austrian executives seem to have been broken. According to the FPÖ, human resources policy within the executive seems to be more important than security policy. And according to FPÖ, Austria, in particular Graz, seems to have become the global center of international drug trafficking. There is therefore fear and terror in the population, and because there is fear and terror and the crime rate is rising exorbitantly, the FPÖ, as it is close to the citizen, takes to the last straw that offers it: This is the establishment of a civil defence. - That's what it's like for us. Mr. Minister, what do you think of this – also politically, not only as a minister and as the head of the executive? There must be a political concept behind that, but there must be some criticism behind it. Or, otherwise formulated: The coalition partner believes that this minister is incapable and should resign. He cannot ensure security and order, so there must be a civil defence. This is the truth behind it, and you have to show it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is why my question to the speakers of the FPÖ is: Are you of this opinion? If so, why don't you say you demand this resignation? Do you think that these two years in which you are in the government are such an accident for Austria? – We believe that this is an accident, we have always said that. Only we believe that we do not need a civil defence to communicate and communicate this. We believe that the executive should continue to have the monopoly of violence. We believe that it is enough if the State fulfils these tasks. We don't need parallel structures that you think about and that ultimately – and that's the main point! – can become a slippery brigade. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! Is it not in the background that the Austrians are going to be sniffing with the blue slipper brigade, where it goes, in picture and sound? Isn't that the background? – We think that’s behind it, and we condemn it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, there are private security services, private detectives, departmental detectives, for example. No one's talking about that. The 11th. September is a sign that the intentional expansion in the private security sector has brought less security, because the badly paid private security bodies at airports were responsible for making it so easy to come to these terrorist attacks in New York and Washington. You always seem to forget that! But your real goal is to set up initiatives with these actions. What does this mean for the Graz school where your blue sniffers have to do their work because a) the police are unable and b) are sold drugs there? [[Abg. Young: Better blue beaker than red hare!]] This school is called into question: the students, the teachers, the parents. – A disastrous step, which we believe can only be condemned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I know, of course, that the FPÖ suffers from a trauma, but this is an internal problem, because if you had internally sound sniff structures, you might have saved yourself something like Mr Rosenstingl. Perhaps you would have had the opportunity to sniff in time, what it has on you with Rosenstingl and his friends and his structures. Perhaps the FPÖ Lower Austria would have saved a lot if you had sniffed it internally in time. If you are working on an experimental project under the title "Blue Sniffing Blue", I'll tell you: This is an interesting project. Do it! We want to study it, put it on the Internet! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Böhacker: How was that in the "consumer" fight?]] We want to read it, we want to see the results of this initiative "Blue sniff blue". Interesting would be, for example: What does Patrick Ortliefschon do in the garages again? [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] You could sniff that, and please put it on the Internet so that we know what Patrick Ortliefschon is doing in the garages again. That would be a project! Or another project, perhaps banal, but at least so important for domestic policy: Did Peter Westenthaler swallow his sedative pills in the morning? You could eat blue, and you could put that on the Internet. I just want to show you the dimensions. For example, if you go for a walk in the city park on a lukewarm May evening, Khol and Westenthaler, you could end the relationship crisis and discuss whether they want to stay in the housing community or not. – These would be interesting sniff projects, but please make this accessible to the public! Or: Schneffel 1 to Schneffel 2: Haider is approaching Klagenfurt Airport. Alert level 1! He's fleeing with an unknown goal. Here you could be helpful to various ministries or the Austrian public. So it's enough to do. Leave the Austrian public alone with your pruning, but sniff You'd rather be in your own ranks! There you have enough to do, and that would be more sensible!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16906	Mr Strasser, Minister for the Interior, was reported by the Government Bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e16926	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Cap, may I ask you a question: Why do you use the instrument of questioning to the Federal Minister if you have one or two dozen questions to a parliamentary group? May I allow this question to arise? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I ask this question, Mr Klubobmann Cap, also because I have been on the road all day in Vorarlberg and wanted to be because, in order to speak and answer this House, I had to cancel dates – such as visiting an integration centre, such as the meeting with the Vorarlberg Chamber of Workers, such as visiting a general army post or participating in a large exercise at Lake Constance, which includes three countries. I regret the fact that I had to cancel these dates, because of course I am speaking and replying to Parliament. [[Abg. Arbitrators: You don't want to do this for parliamentary sittings either!]] I can assure you and all Vorarlberg Members that I will make these appointments in the first half of June. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should like to make it clear on the matter in question: First: The establishment of the association "United Nations for Protection and Security" was announced by the Steiermark Security Directorate. April 2002 is not prohibited since there are no reasons for a ban in accordance with § 6(1) of the Association Law 1951 – and this is essential here. Secondly, I believe – and I have a very clear opinion here – that we can talk about a lot of what we should discuss and develop in our entire concept of security and security policy. Only one thing is out of question, and I have the feeling that this is carried by all the political groups here in the House: The State's monopoly of violence is not discussed. I should also like to say one thing very clearly, and this should have been avoided from you in this so-called question debate. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does "so-called" mean? This is a parliamentary instrument!]] The security factor in Austria is in the absolute top line in international comparison, and this is a merit of the responsible officials, led by the Director-General, through all the army commanders of the country, to all the police directors, and of course also the competent minister. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Tell the Freeman! Say that to the civil defence of the liberals!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The security factor and the subjective safety awareness and also the confidence of people in the police and in the Gendarmerie have increased in the last two and a half years. That's the work of the officials, that's the work of reorganizing our house! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Our police and our Gendarmerie perform their tasks perfectly. Security is a core task of the executive and should remain in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Tell the FPÖ!]] I expressly point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the executive fulfils its tasks in an Austrian way and always responds accordingly to new challenges. I would like to remind you that it is this Federal Government under Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, who has also made it a task, together with our coalition partner from the Freedom Party, to free the Austrian security executive from tasks of second, third, fourth priority so that it can fulfil its core tasks as best as possible. That is what our government programme says, and that is what we are putting to the point! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have started a major reform work, and we have made this very clear and very precise. In 2000, we made a detailed analysis. In 2001, we developed our concepts, and now, in 2002, we put this point in place for point, paragraph for paragraph, chapter for chapter and indent for indent to the Austrian security executive to the Austrian safety equipment for the requirements of 21. ==References== That's our job! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Therefore, together with the Austrian Parliament, with the representatives of the House, we have created the Federal Criminal Office. That's why we distributed the rescue. That is why we have undertaken a reorganisation of Cobra's national commissions. That is why we have introduced a joint training of gendarmerie and police officers. That's why we've brought together the workshops, the budget and mass collection points. That is why we have created a central personnel administration. That is why we have carried out a reorganisation of the guard room structures and departmental command. That is why we have taken the initiative to carry out the monitoring of dormant traffic. That is why we started the reform of the Federal Police Directorate in Vienna, and and so on. All these organizational innovations, all of these organizational developments, all of these fundamental reforms in the Austrian security system serve to equip our gendarmen and our police officers for the 21st century. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I do not want to hide the fact that this is often a double track, even a lack of information that has been possible to eliminate and deal with some of them for decades. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Black personnel policy, and this is the result!]] Internationally, this is also a false information, Mr. Klubobmann, which you have given, the crime figures in Austria are exorbitantly low, and even in the ranks of the Austrian capitals after their criminal burden Graz does not take a top place. That is also said here. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is the address of the Freeman!]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Why do you always deviate?]] I would like to thank everyone outside the executive, especially the Blue Light organizations, the fire brigades, the rescue, the rescue of water, the rescue of the mountains and all the others who, in a good, close partnership with the Austrian security executive, ensure that Austria is safe and safe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to thank the citizen for accepting the partnership offered by the Austrian security executive, the Austrian security device. There are many to mention here, both the student representations and teachers, the directors, the district and national school councils, many initiative citizens who, together with the security executive, are looking to ensure that Austria is managed safely and carefully. This way, ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17126	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. The speaking time is now 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17147	Mr President. Federal Minister! Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to the Federal Minister: If a parliamentary appointment is not entered in your calendar, then it is your problem or the problem of your secretary, but it is the duty of a minister to ensure that there is a parliamentary appointment in his appointment, because it may be that you are required, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then you don't need to complain that you have to cancel dates in Vorarlberg. This is your problem, not that of Parliament. Parliament is the Sovereign and can quote any Minister here if it believes that this is necessary. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Why did Mr Cap address the questions to the FPÖ? – This is very easy: Because They did not address these questions to FPÖ. It would have been your job to question why the FPÖ has come upon such harsh, perplexed ideas. You have the responsibility to do so, and if you had questioned it, it would not have been necessary for Mr Cap to ask the questions. We Socialists are, of course, against private civil defences, especially because we have undergone a long development in this Republic: away from self-justice and self-executive to a liberal rule of law, in which the monopoly of violence was transferred to a controllable and responsible executive. It is the duty of the Minister of the Interior to provide public security; and this is clearly the case under the law of the Gendarmerie and the police, i.e. the executive. It is your duty, Mr Federal Minister, to ensure this high standard, which was reached in 30 years of social-democratic security policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria is still one of the safest countries in this world, and the executive has a high reputation. This is not a question at all, but you, Mr Federal Minister, are doing everything you can to change for the sake of party tactics, for personnel reasons. Haider has not rightly said that you are actually a staffing agency. For party-tactical reasons, you destroy proven structures, weaken the executive, give her less money. There are thousands of executive officers less on the street. Your shame, Mr. Federal Minister, that you are saving in the administration, but more executive officials are on the street is really a story of Munich. The facts are as follows: The staff plan reads: Central management 1999 782, in 2002 795. – A plus of 13 people. At the Federal Police Department, in the Executive Service of the Security Guard in 1999 10 522, in 2002 10 017; that's about 505 policemen less! In the executive service, in the criminal service: in 1999 2 514, in 2002 2 433, which is about 81 less. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Did you say there's been so much money out there, Mr Wattaul? – In 1999, you yourself have made a further request for 1,000 officials, which you do not want to discuss in the Committee to date. That's the truth! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the Federal Army, during the executive service, it looks as follows: In 1999 13 847 officials, in 2002 13 351; around 496 gendarmen less on the street. This is your policy, Mr Federal Minister, and you have to take a position on it! That's the facts! When we look at how this continues to develop: 40 prints by the Vienna police in 2000, 28 prints in 2001, and in 2002 it will be null. The executive is aged. The executive is facing the problem that the criminal service has not evicted and trained any one for three years. It is scandalous, Mr. Federal Minister, how you drive the executive into the graves! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then the overdoing adds that not only are fewer executive officials on the street, but you still transfer 149 police and Gendarmerie officials to the so-called Federal Criminal Office and order them to a large central office. In Graz alone, 116 security guards are missing. These posts are not occupied, and it is no wonder that people there are worried. This is the result of your missing policy, which you are doing with this madness of the shattering of the public security device in this country! They provide the ground for such a policy and for such a consideration, for such a harsh idea of a civil defence that no one wants. I can only tell you, Minister of State: Leave away from your policy of human party policy consideration in your device! Do not hunger the executive, because the people in Austria are entitled to an excellent Austrian security executive.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17270	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Frieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17292	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to say that a request meeting is probably not appropriate to solve a problem such as security – in 25 minutes! But I fear, Mr Klubobmann Cap, that security is not really a personal political concern to you. I believe that the issue of security at best provides you with a content for this, as I believe, rather bad cabaretist presentation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But now on the question of the so-called Graz Civil Defense. On the one hand, it must be noted that the election campaign has already begun in Graz. We all know from long experiences that in election struggles often in the heat of the fight, unhappy ideas are often born. The idea of establishing a Graz civil defence isn't really opportunistic, as I mean. I join the closed rejection of this civil defence. I remember that the majority of the Graz municipal council, our wife, Mr Klasnic, and many others are opposed to this initiative. I agree with Mr Strasser, the Minister for the Interior, that it does not require amateurs but professionals to fight drug crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Steibl: We too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Nevertheless, it must be noted that there is a special situation in Graz. [[Abg. Oellinger: Election campaign, we've heard that already! Are civil defenses always born in the election campaign?]] It's already campaign, as I mentioned. In Graz, due to misinterpreted tolerance, little to nothing was done against small crime and against drug dealers. [[Abg. Parnigoni: It's quite clear anyway!]] I do not mean that the social-democratic Graz city government would have to carry out police duties, but it has, out of its competence, contributed too little to the integration of foreigners. Of course, it is also not to be denied that a lack of integration leads foreigners to illegality or to crime. [[Abg. Parnigoni: There is hardly a city that makes as much for integration as Graz! That's a political slander, a political murder, what you're doing!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: I guess that's a terrible thing, Mrs Frieser, what you're saying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has already pointed out that all citizens have a legitimate and natural right to security in their daily lives. This very natural need, however, has been ignored by the political left – that has been passed by you, Mr Cap – in the past, and has also been abated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One considers small crime to be a cavalier crime and believes that one can simply ignore it. Today we see the result not only in Graz, but in all major cities. [[Abg. Silhavy: A contradiction in yourself, what you say!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, however, Mr Strasser, Minister of the Interior, has made a restructuring, and it is expected that the executive will increasingly accept these problems. In the future, for example, those officials who are free from the new restructuring planned by the Minister will increasingly devote themselves to the protection of young people and the fight against youth crime. In the fight against drug crime, these officials are supposed to work together with the Kripo. Ladies and gentlemen! This form of policy, which takes on the concerns of citizens, is supported by the electorate. We and this government accept these concerns and do not regard misunderstood liberalism and tolerance as a problem solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17414	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17435	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the polemics of the clubman Cap and the polemics of parliamentarian Parnigoni back to the reconstitution of the debate. At the same time, I would like to correct some errors and reject some of them. There is of course no "bürgerwehr" in Graz, but the association is called "Verein der Bürger für Schutz und Sicherheit" (United of Citizens for Protection and Security) – the Federal Minister has already pointed this out – and there is also a non-obligatory notice for this association. This is the The association does not understand itself as an auxiliary police force, but consists in its majority of voluntaryly active young people, men and women who work in the field of safety. [[Abg. Oillinger: The Obmann?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The theme of this group is: Citizens are committed to citizens. Ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy! With your fears about a home defence, this club you call a civil defense has absolutely nothing to do. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In contrast to some social democrats, the young people in Graz are not arrested the categories of thinking of the last millennium. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] You just want to do something against the unculture of looking away, Mrs Colleague, and they will do so if you shout so loud. Ladies and gentlemen! There are also tried and tested examples from abroad. In English, for example, there are the so-called Guardian Angels, which provide protection for young and older people in the subways and subway stations. In Bavaria and Saxony, for example, there is the security guard, but also in the social democratic Brandenburg there have been the so-called security partners since 1995. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the problem?]] I do not understand, therefore, these ideological reflections of the political left, but these reflections cannot surprise me either, because when the security guard was introduced in Bavaria in the mid-1990s, the Bavarian Prime Minister was therefore severely attacked. At the time, the SPD underwent wild-west practices or sturgeon after Stasi manners and the like. Ladies and gentlemen! Today this storm in the water glass has collapsed and forgotten. In many Bavarian cities more than 400 security guards patrol in parks and unsafe districts. Its task is above all to fight against and monitor street crime and also to counteract increasing vandalism. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In Graz, public trafficking in drugs will also be observed and displayed, as the background is that there are more than 1,000 drug dealers in Graz, according to the Graz police. Ladies and gentlemen! Our youth is worth something to us! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The strips of this association will be on foot and will lead to prevention through their presence and will also improve the sense of security among the population. If you saw the "Report" broadcast last night, you know that many business people in Vienna, for example in the Kärntner Straße, are engaged in private security services. The Austrian President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, also considered the Graz model to be superior for Linz. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is still a safe country in international comparison. Our executive does excellent work. It is motivated, well-trained and modern. Nevertheless, crime is increasing, unfortunately also in our country. [[Abg. Oils: But where! The Minister says something else!]] More and more people are worried about becoming victims of a crime. However, preserving internal security requires not only strengthening executives, ladies and gentlemen, it requires co-responsibility, commitment and help from citizens. [[Abg. Oellinger: The Minister said something else!]] Action against violence and crime is an overall social task to which everyone can contribute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17542	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17564	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr. Dr. Kurzmann spoke of the fact that, in the context of today's question, on the content and the reason why it is necessary, I am going to speak in the second part of my speech – I am going to be ideological. It will be – how did he always say? – Left ideology operated. Dr. Kurzmann! Appreciate Members of the Freedom Party! We don't need any reserve police, no spare rambos, and no spare sheriffs at all. Security is the core task of the Executive and the State Security Service. Ladies and gentlemen! These are truly "link-sideological statements", I must say. Mr. Bundesminister Strasser, I would like to congratulate you on changing the pages so quickly when you look at the Freedom Party. Mr. Federal Minister, according to APA, that was your reaction on 14 April. May after these parallel structures began their work in Graz. Mr Federal Minister, I was with you when reading these lines. – Only I have assessed them quickly, because your opinion today has made similar clear statements on the action of the Graz Freemans completely missing. That an interior minister here says the police are working well in this state: Now only! Logically, Minister of the Interior! You won't say: As a security executive, we are unable to do our job! [[Abg. Young: She can't do anything!]] As a member of the opposition, I say: The Austrian security executive, the Austrian police and the Gendarmerie do a good job, daily, 24 hours around the clock – and the Austrian citizens appreciate this. Nevertheless, there are sometimes things you have to criticize. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have received a feedback from the ladies and gentlemen of the Security Executive in the many years when I am dealing with this issue, that they are sometimes not entirely satisfied when they are put on the Pranger in the event of seizures and similar, but are also grateful for this critical feedback, because this also tightens self-criticism and strengthens the will to make improvements. But, Mr Federal Minister, if you in Parliament are so kneeling in front of the FPÖ and, above all, in an unbearable winery, regret that You do not have to stand in front of the people in Vorarlberg, but on Wednesday at 5 p.m. before the representatives of the people... – Don't be allowed, Minister of State, it is your duty to speak and answer Parliament. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Darf!]] You should take note of this! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Now I've been thinking about this the other way round: What does the Federal Chancellor or Minister Molterer think if they are here in Parliament all day at the People's Office? Mr Strasser regrets that he cannot shake hands in Vorarlberg. And we poor people have to sit there? – That would be the reverse. Minister! On Parliament's day, your place here is to speak and answer, especially in the case of so wretched responses like those you gave to the SPÖ colleagues. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Minister! Whoever wrote these lines and thus this answer – I don't know who it was; In any event, Mr Minister, your signature is, to that end, I must say: I ask you in all courtesy, read what you are signing in the future, because I assume that you have not done so in this case! But now on the second matter, Mr Federal Minister and honourable Members. What interests me in the "Causa Bürgerwehr" in Graz is the question who pays the whole " fun" – under quotation marks – there. I am interested in the question of what is behind this FPÖ action, which is a purely party action of the Freedom Party, is anything else, whether taxpayers, i.e. party funding, are abused or misguided. That's what I'm interested in. You have now received the complete general rejection of all social groups in Graz. That is why, without wanting to go far into history now, I am quite sure that this country and these people in this case have learned from history and that the order monopoly, the executive monopoly, the violence monopoly of this state will be with the executive and not with the FPÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17652	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17673	I take the negotiations on the 7th. Agenda item again. Mr Spindelegger is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17697	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to return to that item on the agenda which we discussed before the urgent one and which can be based on great clarity in this House. I would like to make three points. For the first time, we have had many years of criticism of the fact that there are ten different rights to award in Austria – a federal procurement right and nine country procurement rights – and that a lengthy administrative process is slowing down and this is not necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the new draft has really been a success. But I would like to make a differentiation with the Greens: It does not automatically mean that all issues transferred to the countries for legislation must be resolved in this way. I am a supporter of the principle of subsidiarity, where, on a case-by-case basis, an examination must be carried out in the direction of whether a regulation would perhaps be more favourable at the country level or if a new system would be required at the federal level. In this case, I would be sure. Our accession to the European Union has also shown that we need to implement a European regulation and can now create a new federal procurement law for citizens and for legal users. In this case, yes – not generally. I would like to highlight a second point, because we should also make new regulations in the light of cost savings. I think it is very remarkable that this regulation is possible through the creation of the new Bundesbekauf GmbH savings, in the first phase of a percentage and in the second phase 2 percent of the purchase value in a longer-term perspective. Having already been pointed out today, what sizes this includes, I should like to remind you once again: In 1999, there were public procurements of 480 billion schillings. If one percent were calculated, this would mean a savings of 480 million schilling per year only by streamlining and reorganizing and the benefits of new media. These savings directly benefit the citizen because 480 million schilling can be invested more in the business and relieves the public. I think that this is an incredibly great saving that could be associated with such a new regulation. Third thought: Unlike Mrs Petrovic, I would like to point out that the Constitutional Court of First Instance then abolished part of this federal law because the control of awarding was unconstitutional, not the law itself. We have now provided for a provision that clearly regulates the establishment of a Federal Procurement Commission and a Federal Procurement Office for the control of the awarding bodies. That's constitutional. In this way, we also come to a temporary arrangement that, by the end of spring, this new provision can be put into effect and thus taken into account the recognition of the Constitutional Court. In conclusion, I note that this will allow for a modern legislation which saves enormous costs and which can rightly hope for a unanimous adoption in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17752	As the next speaker, Mr Krüger is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17773	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! High house! I can still recall, in the historical consideration of the development of the Austrian National Council in the last decades, an idea by Josef Taus, then opposition leader, who spoke to a concentration government. If this structure of a concentration government has been implemented, at least in this area, in the area of federal procurement rights. This is really very welcome. It is not only to be welcomed that the parties represented in the National Council have found a consensus on this matter, yes, because the Constitutional Court has set this path twice by abolishing procurement rules, but it is also gratifying because the countries have been involved and ultimately given their Sanctus. Ladies and gentlemen! The conditions of competition are of particular interest for the choice of a company – whether it be an international company or a national company. The conditions of competition of undertakings are also based on the control rules, the procurement rules and also on the functioning of the legal protection bodies. In the past, the complexity of the procurement rules was that there were ten procurement rules, one at federal level and nine at country level. A summary of the rules of competence in the newly created Article 14b of the Federal Constitutional Act has made the German federal award a new form of competence in that legislation and enforcement are federal matters, while in the field of federal awarding legislation is the state case and the execution of state matters. Control in the field of the execution of national agendas is also carried out exclusively in the field of the country. Ladies and gentlemen! I firmly believe that this law is also positively adopted by the economy. The economy can adapt to a uniform procurement system in Austria. I am convinced that constitutional concerns have been taken into account and, finally, I also believe that this federal procurement law regulates not only the upper thresholds, but also the sub-suspension area. We know that the Constitutional Court has given this opportunity to abolish the law on grounds of equality, because there is a need for an efficient legal protection system in the so-called sub-suspension area – that is, in the tending rather lower calls for tenders. This was also introduced by the present Federal Procurement Act. I am also confident – I believe all the statements of the opposition leaders and the government parties as well – that there will be a uniform adoption of this law here. I am glad not only in the interest of the National Council, but especially in the interest of the countries and especially in the interest of those who have to apply this Federal Procurement Act in practice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17818	Mr Morak, State Secretary, spoke from the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17840	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is one reason to be satisfied with all of us today, because there has been a work done here that is the work of a consensus and, above all, the end of a 30-year path in search of a modern and uniform award law in Austria. It is – it has been suggested several times by my previous speakers – to thank both the parties represented in the National Council, on the one hand, the Federal Government, the Länder and the Federal Government, on the other, for the fact that this law has come into force. I can only repeat what my previous speakers have often said and, as I mean, correctly. What are the cornerstones? On the one hand, on the basis of the resolution of the National Council, the concerns were taken into account. This means taking into account environmental aspects in the performance description, mandatory compliance with ILO agreements, social implementation conditions, compliance with the provisions on barrier-free construction. A statement on the comments made by the Greens in the Committee, but also here today in plenary session: I would like to ask you, § 21 para. 6 and 7 to read with the mandatory provisions of the ILO Convention on the one hand and § 71 and § 80 Z. 14 on the other side. This takes into account what you have noted. Similarly, the requirements of the basic paper prepared by the countries have been taken into account, i.e. a systematic re-design of the material award schemes in the upper and lower thresholds, the creation of the necessary framework conditions for electronic procurement and e-business – i.e. a step into the future – and the creation of a new system of separate and non-disputable decisions in combination with pre-payment periods. Instead of ten award laws, there will now only be more of an award law as a basis for awarding public contracts. Legal protection remains with the countries and municipalities when awarding them. On the other hand, a Federal Award Office has been set up for the protection of the law at the time of the award of the Federal Republic of Germany with a slim administrative system as possible. This has been pointed out several times and has also been valued. The Federal Procurement Control Commission has been restructured into a mediation body. In this sense, as I believe, we can be satisfied with the work that lies behind us, and we can also face each other, which means that when different interests are dealt with in such a conflict-free field by this House and the offices of the communities and countries. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17882	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17903	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! In your speech, you have pointed out that the greens' demands for procurement procedures were actually covered by the mention of the ILO and so on, and have praised the climate in which this proposal has been made. Nevertheless, from our point of view, some wishes remain open. In this respect, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The public hand should assume its responsibility. I would like to add that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17961	The amendment by Mr Petrovic, colleagues and others, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kubitschek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e17985	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said that this federal procurement law has actually achieved a quality leap. The greatest success is certainly – and this has already been mentioned several times today – that it has succeeded in establishing a uniform procurement right with the countries and municipalities, so that in the future a uniform, simplified procedure can apply, according to which contracts are awarded throughout the federal territory. This means more transparency, less effort and ultimately lower costs for businesses. It is therefore to be welcomed for many reasons. In addition to that, the Federal Act also contains a whole series of other essential points, which most of my previous speakers have already mentioned. That is to say, I would just like to address one more issue, because in this context I would like to address a question to Mr Morak, the Secretary of State, who, however, has just spoken about it. You may still be able to go into it shortly afterwards. It has succeeded in bringing social aspects into the law in public procurement. This is a long-standing demand of the trade unions and also of the Chamber of Workers. I am therefore all the more pleased that, as has been said, it has now succeeded in including this aspect in this law. I believe that the public hand has an important role to play, so it must also be possible to deliberately promote such social policy objectives and to encourage them. What I cannot understand at the best of my will, however, is that, despite the draft law in this House, the government obviously does not need to implement the same regulation at European level. A Council of Ministers for the Single Market met yesterday in Brussels, and there was an amendment to the existing EC procurement directives on the agenda. The implementation of this draft directive would mean that the bill we are adopting here today is practically obsolete on this point. But what's worse is: In particular, it would mean that the decision would be toothless. That is to say, the proposed EC regulation should not allow the inclusion of social and environmental criteria in the award of public contracts, and this would actually be a fall in the system I have just highlighted so positively. Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear, I believe, that small countries cannot always prevail with their concerns in the European Union. The problem, however, which I see more effectively in this case is that Austria seems to be in the process of perceiving itself. In this case, Austria is one of the majority groups, i.e. the majority of those countries that have decided to oppose the inclusion of social and environmental criteria in procurement. In all the negotiations and in all the votes in the European Union, Austria has so far decided against such a measure, which we anchor today in an Austrian law, which is sufficiently documented. A European regulation that excludes the consideration of social and environmental criteria clearly defines the scope for Austrian design. That is to say, the regulation we are deciding today is no longer valid tomorrow. Perhaps this very strange behaviour of the government is behind a strategy that I cannot understand right now, and therefore, Mr President-in-Office Morak, I would ask you to clarify it. In any case, I do not think that this is a useful explanation. I would like to make a very brief point: The rapid implementation of the new scheme also depends, of course, on the rapid start of appropriate training in the individual departments. Otherwise, there is a risk that, for example, contracts in the field of labour market services can no longer be handled in good time. Finally, it remains to be noted that this federal award law has actually succeeded in making progress, and I very much hope that this progress will not be reversed at European level on this one point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18036	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18058	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Award Act, which is now in place, is a solution we have long waited for, because, no matter how you have seen it or how they have been discussed, award laws have always provided a lot of emotions. For years now, negotiations have been under way. The last such law, which we passed in 1997 or 1998, obviously required reform because, in the meantime, there has been a great change in the economy. We now have new rules for the award of public contracts, and that is very crucial. I think it is not a law, as has been said several times today, in which the smallest common denominator has been found or a compromise has been concluded, no, I think this law is a future solution, is a tangible solution and is exemplary not only in our country, but beyond our country also for other countries, for the European Union as a whole. My previous speaker also referred to this area. We have now relocated legislative competence to the Federation and have uniform procurement guidelines throughout Austria. I believe that this is important not only because we can now be clearly oriented, but also because it also saves unnecessary administrative burden. This is an important step to be taken in the debate on this draft law. It is also crucial that the new regime is now also in line with EU procurement rights requirements. I am of the opinion, Mr State Secretary, that it is appropriate in this context to express recognition to both the main negotiator, Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, as well as the Ministry's officials, the country representatives and in particular you as representatives of the Federal Chancellor's Office, because a great deal of effort and commitment was needed to be able to present a joint work of special quality at the end of the day. I believe that this will make Austria's economic location even more attractive, because it will also bring about a liberalisation of public procurement as a whole. The applicability of the provisions on legal protection also to public contracts below the threshold of the EU rules is an improvement, especially for the conditions of the lower-level contributors. That too is crucial. I heard today in the debate that the Greens will now also vote in the third reading. This is something that I agree with positively, and it was not recognizable in the Committee's deliberations. I should have asked you what you wanted to do in the end. On the one hand, want to You have shifted more and more competences to the Federation – today, on the other hand, you again criticise that the countries are responsible for the legal protection provisions. This procedure, as I believe, is not quite correct. It has been mentioned several times today that this federal award law also has a very essential social component, because it involves the employment of women, apprentices, long-term unemployed, disabled and older workers and the implementation of other social policy concerns. That's my colleague Mag. Kubitschek said that this was a requirement of the Chamber of Workers and the Trade Union, I would not want to abdicate it at all, I would just like to add it: not just the union and not just the Chamber of Workers. This was probably also a concern of this government, which was very probably also a concern of the main negotiators and all those who worked and participated here. That, I believe, is also to be said very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This law sets out an important step towards greater efficiency in the public budget and the creation of a corresponding margin for significant investment in the future. An important measure in this context was also the creation of the Federal Procurement Office. Due to the possibility of processing procurement procedures for countries and municipalities, substantial synergies can also be used here. Finally, this is a milestone for the Austrian economy, a milestone for securing work in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18134	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Weinmeier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18155	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been discussed several times today about the dimension of this law. Since almost all Members are in the room, I would like to repeat it again: It is about a sum of €35 billion or 480 billion schilling, which is awarded annually by the public hand. With this dimension, it is therefore also important that the rules of the game fit. The rules of play are important in the interests of efficient use of public funds. It is important that there is also a functioning competition in the award of deliveries and services, of course also in the interests of the economy, that access to competition is guaranteed for all and that fair competition is also achieved in the sense and in the interests of the economy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, both will be fulfilled by this law. Many discussions have also succeeded in taking both interests into account and, of course, as has already been said, in complying with the EU directive on this matter. The quantum leap of this law is undoubtedly the fact that it will be uniform, as all previous speakers have already said. This was of course also the reason for the fact that the birth of this law lasted a little longer, because the countries have not so easily renounced their previous competence. The people suffering from this situation were, of course, the economy and the commercials. As one who is very often involved in the award of a job, I know what I am talking about here. No one in the past could understand why, from a national border, a provider has suddenly to take into account other legal provisions in the award of services, and that in a unified European Economic Area. It is therefore a historic merit of this federal government that it has succeeded in reaching the agreement of the countries for this shift of competence that there are no longer ten different laws, but only one more. This, of course, brings – and that must be said – administrative simplification and economic kindness. The legislation will be federal. The execution will be a federal matter where the award of the federal government is concerned, and where the issue of awarding in the field of the countries and communities is concerned, the execution will be national. The control will be the same, and legal protection will also be divided into federal and country, depending on whether it is federal or municipal award. One thing is also essential: In the future, the legal control of federal contracts is a completely newly structured Federal Procurement Office. In the future, a tripartite will decide. This too is an improvement that can be seen. It is also encouraging and important that there will be improvements in some areas for small and medium-sized enterprises. As an example of this, I mention the principle of subcontracting, which was explained in the law, according to which contracts should be awarded in principle by subject areas, with the decision – which is clear – to be taken by the client. For example, the Lower Austrian Government has already decided that the mandate of general companies should only take place if there are important reasons for this. Otherwise, it should be allocated by subject area. This is particularly important and in the interest of smaller companies, because you know that it has become more and more unsitting to have been awarded in too large tranches or by general contractors and the smaller businesses had no chance at all to come to orders. The second improvement in the interest of small and medium-sized enterprises concerns the clarification in the law that speculative and underpriced offers are to be excluded in the future. This is valued in § 98 Z 3 of the Law. I also consider this to be positive: that speculators and black sheep in the industry will not have a chance to come to an order in the future. Finally, positive is the agreement reached after the Committee meeting that the threshold for mental-creative services is increased to € 130 000 in the lower threshold in the non-open procedure. This is positive in that it is generally difficult to describe as a spiritual-creative achievement and because there is usually only a small number of interested parties, or at all only one interested person, and therefore an open procedure costs unnecessary money and time. Finally, I would like to mention the electronic auction. The electronic auction up to a threshold of €40 000 is something new in the law, is something that corresponds to the trend and is already being practiced in some countries. On the other hand, there were concerns about smaller businesses, because there is, of course, a risk that this electronic auction will be a price dumping, but it cannot be concluded that this electronic auction has been incorporated into the law. One will have to see if it does not really come at a price dumping. Finally, the anchoring of the contractor disaster is also positive in the law, because this will also lead to simplification and red tape savings. So all in all: a positive law that we like to agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18232	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 1118 of the Supplements. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Papházy, Mr Hiezu have tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall have to vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendments and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Since the present draft law and the amendment tabled by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Papházy, ladies and gentlemen, contain constitutional provisions, I shall first put it in accordance with § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. MEPs Dr. Petrovic, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment to Rule 2(21 paragraph) of the Rules of Procedure. 7,............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I would ask those Members of the House who speak for this to be a sign in this regard. – This is the minority, and the request is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is largely accepted. Deputies Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Papházy, colleagues have tabled an amendment to Article 2 § 26, § 100 para.1, § 132 para. 1, § 135 para. 3 and Article 3 Z 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – It is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Wittmann, Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dr. Papházy, colleagues on the extension of legal protection to the area below the thresholds. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – The request was adopted unanimously. (E 133.) 8. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Court of Auditors' report (III-128 of the Supplements) on the outcome of its collection of average income and the additional benefits for pensions for undertakings and institutions in the field of the public economy of the Federal Republic of Germany in 1999 and 2000 (1135 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18330	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Deputy has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18359	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The key statement of this report on average income and additional benefits for pensions is very quick: Managers' salaries are rising, employment rates are falling, and apprentices' numbers are falling. [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong!]] – Mr colleague, I will prove that in my speech. But let's stay with the board salaries! They rise, for example, from 2.1 million to 3 million in the CPC – and the average content of the workers, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, falls by 5.9 percent. - That can't be! Or: The Boards in the Dorotheum GesmbH increase their assets from 2.1 million to 4.5 million. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, will say: Well, 1999/2000 has not yet been this super reform government!, I ask you: How can it be that, for example, in the Federal Forests, a single person receives 15 million schilling as a discount payment? – As far as I know, not a round of dark comrades sit with the Federal Forests, but these are your people, and you have to answer for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The signals and the atmosphere in this Federal Government can also be described in the future: It's up to what's holding this stuff! – I remember, for example, the wrong "Magistra" fable. At 270,000 s a month, there is also a rich, increased management gap of 4 million schillings a year. There has been no excuse by the Minister of Social Affairs for this – and there has been no change in terms of such employment contracts. I should also like to mention Mrs Forstinger's ex-minister and her most adventurous waste management in the Second Republic at all. Millions and millions have been wasted – and no parliamentary control, for such a one has prevented you from doing so by the ÖVP! The FPÖ is obviously quite simple to say: Once the reputation is ruined, it lives completely unfavorable! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hartinger.]] The FPÖ, Mrs Hartinger, is also an honorary partyman Alexander Götz. I am curious about what you will have to say to your honorary partyman Götz, who, after suing 7.7 million schillings, then again accessed and once again removed 2.6 million schilling from the taxpayer. "Insatiable" is Götz, you can read about it in a newspaper comment. The biggest chuzpe, however, is that Mrs. Riess-Passer, Vice-Chuzpe. In May, in Leoben, he said: The reds are the downfallers! At the same time, however, Ms. Hartinger, Mrs. Steirischer Partyobmann: I commend the millions to the Schöggl, I also commend this to our old mayor Götz! – You, ladies and gentlemen of the liberals, have an honorary partyman who really fits you! Once they were removed "against the Abkassiers", "against the Privilege Knights" – and then landed at an honorary partyman Alexander Götz. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] To the future ex-Federal Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, who said: With the savings we start with ourselves, that is to say with the Federal Government, and not with the "little people"! But how does reality look? – Over 320 million Schillings are spent on external consultants, 300 million Schillings for a political cleaning program in Austrian companies, 300 million Schillings for advertising activities, for advertisements! I have a particularly threefold example here, so to speak, in the luggage, namely this deputy from Mr. Finanzminister Grasser in the "Financial Times" – and that by "well-being" 820 000 S! Promotional measures and advertisements that you finance from the coalition government with the money "little people"! [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the addressd newspaper page up to date]] Now on the subject of apprenticeships, because you have suggested this, Mr Grossruck. Under the heading "Teachers" there is a lot to be read in negative terms, but ÖVP social spokesperson Feurstein has the forehead to wake up in committee with a note and say: [[Abg. Großruck: 5 percent more apprentices in Austria!]] In industry there are 630 more apprentices! – That is true, however, is white social cynicism, because in total there are 5 184 apprentices less compared to 1999 and 2001. I quote Herbert Tumpel, the president of the Chamber of Labour. The apprenticeship training is too expensive, the companies have complained, says President Tumpel, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. Companies have received €436 million or €6 billion of schilling since 1997 to train them more. Nevertheless, in the previous year, they trained around 22,000 apprentices less than in 1991. – There is really little to add to that. I ask you to: Finally start an offensive in apprenticeship training! Thousands of young people are looking for an apprenticeship. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] What are the consequences of this report? – You, Mrs Hartinger, are not likely to do so, but I am still telling you. – Measures under the Youth Training Act are urgently needed, as are incentives for businesses to train apprentices – but not those where takeover effects are as easy as possible! And: Finally, end your fatal hunger policy in the field of education! That would be the consequences to be drawn from this report. However, they will certainly not do so by the coalition parties, but will continue to distribute from bottom to top and will continue to praise themselves in advertisements. – The voters will then present the invoice anyway.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18453	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18475	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Herb, I mean we should leave the church in the village. They have spoken of apprentices, but not of those mentioned in this report. I will then carry out what the apprentices actually look like according to this Court of Auditors report. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This Court of Auditors report lists in particular those undertakings and bodies which are subject, on the one hand, to the control of the Court of Auditors and which, on the other hand, are subject to reporting obligations to the National Council. This report also shows that the number of undertakings examined by the Court of Auditors is declining. If, for example, there were still around 520 companies audited by the Court of Auditors in 1996, it was only 294 in 2000. The audit carried out by the Court of Auditors is based on the data reported by the companies to the Court of Auditors. Those incomes which are above the reference of the Federal Chancellor in accordance with the Pay Restriction Act are particularly marked. That is why I would like to point out how clearly this report is structured and structured by sectors of activity. From this point of view, I would also like to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors on behalf of my group. Dear ladies and gentlemen! From the overall review of this report in 1999, the number of employees with around 195,000 is apparent; in 2000, there are 189 000 employees, which is a slight decrease of around 3 percent. Interesting is the following: This report also indicates the average income, including the employment of employees. In 1999 it was about 12.2 billion schilling, in 2000 12.7 billion schilling. This represents an increase in income by around 516 million schilling and 4.23 percent respectively. With regard to the development of the references collected, no uniform trend can be established. Mr Herzegovina, it has also been pointed out in the Committee of the President of the Court of Auditors that there is no single trend. There are changes up, but also down. In order to have a serious debate, it is necessary that each individual undertaking be considered separately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In those companies where massive increases in management or managerial remuneration are observed, this is always related to settlement payments. [[Abg. Edler: 'Cause you're gonna throw them out.']] On behalf of the Federal Forests, Mr. Herb. This is a management director of the Austrian Federal Forest. As a result of the departure of this member of the board, this stated sum of 10.2 million schillings, in which salaries, settlements and legal claims are included. Already at the Committee meeting on 16 May. In May, the SPÖ took the accusation that the State would withdraw from apprenticeship training. – However, ladies and gentlemen, this is a superficial, even bold claim, which simply does not match and therefore has to be rejected. The sum of the apprentices mentioned in this report in 1999 is 7 212, in 2000 5 834, which is a minus of 1 378. – Yes, with superficial consideration a minus of 1 378, but in the overview 17 of this report it is clearly pointed out that the Bundestheaterverband was distributed and therefore no longer appears in the 2000 report, and precisely because of this constellation, a minute is calculated; in detail, my colleague Lexer will address it. It's fixed, ladies and gentlemen: This report does not derive – as is claimed by SPÖ members – from the fact that the State withdraws from apprenticeship training. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to say: It is a positive report, and this report also gives a good witness to the federal public economy. Of course, we will be happy to give this report our assent.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18534	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Your speaking time will be set at 7 minutes, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18556	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, I would also like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors who are working on this report. However, I think that I remember – perhaps we should always reflect briefly here – that this is not one of the main areas of activity of the Court of Auditors, nor is it the way perhaps the National Council should imagine. Perhaps we could go sometime to carry out evaluations and see where these work could be better removed. This kind of work could also be assigned to a good statistical body, so the report would not be considered absurd by the National Council. This does not, of course, lessen the thanks for the work. The President of the Court of Auditors refers only to the number of times here in the House, and he should not always have to do so alone. The same is true – and there it becomes more sensitive – for another type of report. The Reference Restriction Act has already been addressed, nationally linked to the term "Political Income Pyramid", and the same applies. However, we still have a very different problem, which I do not get tired of on such occasions, and this is less comfortable. However, the National Council – many of you should remember – has decided on several points in the package: on the one hand, the restrictions on remuneration, and on the other, clear disclosure rules for people who receive income from the public sector, in order to reduce it now. It may stand for this rule, as one would say, it has a clear majority here in the house, if not even unanimity – I can't remember, I wasn't here at the time – only that then institutions, which are also under the influence of party headquarters, are at least in close association with them – I now explicitly call the Chamber of Commerce, which is actually subject to such a disclosure obligation – and simply refuse to do so – contrary to constitutional provisions! . to let the Court of Auditors look into the necessary documents, that is not a small matter, as I mean. I would have invited colleagues at this point, if he were present, to speed up his sheep in the Chamber of Commerce again under the "Constitutional Arch". [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not a question of seeking excuses with announcement and with my opinion relatively sensible excuses. It is thanks to you, Mr President Fierce, to the fact that essential cases – as I know – have been pending at the Constitutional Court of Justice. In the meantime, the European Court of Justice has been given the same procedure. So the thing is going to drag itself down for a while. I just mean that institutions like the Chamber of Commerce – there are others, I know – would have been able to take a different course here. The last point – so to speak, in connection with the privilege debate, which Mrs Herbs has not quite wrongfully raised – is: This Federal Government has begun with the slogan: The government saves itself! [[Abg. Großruck: Kogler, you know that the contracts were made in 1999?- Oh, my God!]] – Which contracts? [[Abg. Großruck: agreed under climate!]] Wait a minute, colleague Großruck! I don't know what you're talking about, but if you want to get closer to the ministerial offices, I'm allowed to say the following: Of course, there has always been employment loans, and that has never been the problem either. There has also been a Court of Auditors report – there was even a special examination on the basis of a request from the liberals – and in this the advantages and disadvantages of this regulation have been very excellently listed in theory and practice. The point, Mr Großruck, is quite different: that this government, which itself claims to be saving itself, is taking part in the privilege box. Perhaps you would rather hear this from me than from my colleague Herbs, since I can rather take a neutral position: Never before has the privilege box been seized like this! You should register this once. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Their whole activity in the relevant "small investigation committee" has been to keep the ministers who should actually speak and answer away from their statement in that committee. This is an incredible process in a parliament! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In the case of Mrs. Forstinger, it is clear that you can do this for so long until she disappears by herself. What happened? – Successor Reichhold has rightly established – he had only one chance –: For God's sake! Completely open up for the exam! The internal revision was already in progress. That is, free stage for control – in retrospect at least! All that we have experienced so far is far beyond our fears in the past. So I don't know at all – I also turn to the address of the ÖVP – what there is to defend or even to rejoice. The fact is that you have a government partner who has acted as a lawyer for the "little man", as an anti-privileged party and what else, but it followed a single – how did Mr. Herbs say, "privileged annoyance"?, I may not say that – sequence of failures exactly in these areas; precisely in these areas that you have previously criticized. We are already looking forward to the special report which we suggested, which had a similar or similar task in some areas. Then we'll see, then let's look at that again. Mrs Forstinger has so far not shed a good light on this affair; I tell you that. Others will follow! Even in the house of Bartenstein, even in the main house, things are not right about these issues of privileges in the ministerial offices. We'll take the evidence, and then you'll be able to intercede again.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18626	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hartinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18648	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too should like to thank you, on behalf of my group, in advance, for this report. As we have already mentioned in the Committee, it might be useful not only to obtain a statistical report but also an analysis, not a political analysis, but a content analysis, and, of course, to use a longer reporting period to analyse comparisons. However, I would also like to add the same horn as Mr Kogler's, and I will take the initiative in the next plenary session that these statistical reports, which are not the direct task of the Court of Auditors, should perhaps be drawn up by Statistics Austria or other institutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The dear colleague Herbs has meant that there are incredible Gagen scandals. He said that while on the one hand, 20 percent of the apprenticeships had been reduced and the average income of workers had been partially reduced, managers would have received dreaming. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! The report before us today is the 1999 and 2000 reports. The government is only with 4. So I'm already wondering: Who's responsible? Who is responsible for the contracts? Who pays the managers on average, for which an average Austrian has to work for 200 years? – There is something like that! Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Do you know who makes such contracts? Do you know who makes such contracts, Mr. Herbs? Have we concluded these contracts? - No! The SPÖ has concluded these contracts, and the ÖGB, Mr Nürnberger, has watched them. In view of this, is it said that the ÖGB and the Social Democrats are lawyers of the "little man" and supposed savior of the social state? How can it be, ladies and gentlemen, that the ÖGB, which holds a 56-percent majority in the trade union bank BAWAG, pays a manager with two supergagens another €3.6 million pension loss? [[Abg. Dr. Povysil: Euro? Incredible!]] – Euro, yes, really! Mr Vergestnitsch! Mr Nürnberger! You want to say all the serious that you are representative of the "little man"? – But that really will not take you away soon! From my point of view, it would be really more efficient for the ÖGB to prevent such gage scandals, because then you don't need to finance expensive image campaigns to calm angry members. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I and my group can only be right, because you are driving the voters into our hands. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Where is the morale of the ÖGB when one of you, besides €600 000 Gage, still receives a state pension? Mr. Herb, where did you cry out: Scandal!Unknown term Scream other than You always: Scandal, where there is no scandal. If a scandal is really with you, don't yell at it. In your own rows, look away. This is for me the social-democratic arrogance under the motto: "I sane!", and nothing else! €3.63 million Pension loss for Mr. Elsner, head of the union bank BAWAG, plus an additional €290 000 per year as Deputy Head of the lottery company, which is a subsidiary of BAWAG. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That means he's double-cashing. Where's the spark of a thought of the "little man"? The reason for this pension reduction was – like the ex-Bundeskanzler Klima, who had his OMV-pension claims found – the tax advantage. As a steward, Mr. Herzge, I am reminded of the Styrian workers' chamber president Rechberger, who, in addition to his President's content, also received Spesenpauschale as a central works councilman and paid a deputies' pension – together with 20 000 € per month! The average employee in Austria, ladies and gentlemen – I suppose you know – deserves €1 400 per month. Where is justice here, where is the thought of the "little worker"? That's not the policy for the "little man", that's functional policy! I can only say one thing, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats: Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18703	The next speaker was Mr Edler. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18725	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Hartinger, you have tried to present a steirerderdelle. However, you have forgotten a famous politician of your group who you are supposed to have excluded from your party, Mr Exbundesminister Schmid. You also need to show how much he's collected and now cashed. That would have been a good thing to do, but you did not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have not referred to the report at all, you have just presented a few cases. We could continue a lot of what my colleague, Mr Herb, has started here, for example with regard to the former Minister for Foresting. It will show what Federal Minister Reichhold is doing with the report of the revision or what, if it comes to the notice, the Minister of Justice is doing with this report. Is this thing going to be in the sand as it was at the top of the ladder? - We'll look at this very well. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I do not want to say that this is a good work paper that your employees have tried to bring this very difficult matter into book form. We already had the opportunity in committee to discuss it in detail. As a social democrat and trade unionist, I would now like to take one out: The structural change in the economy and especially in industry has been clearly demonstrated. What hurts me personally – and I also pointed out this in committee – is that in five years around 50,000 jobs have been lost to workers. I'm glad that the employees don't. If we look at those who are now carrying out this work, we can see – and the President of the Committee has also confirmed this – that it is mostly a matter of outsourcing, out-sourcing. One would have to consider whether it is actually so much cheaper if the large semi-state company, the so-called public economy, which often does so, sent thousands of qualified colleagues to the so-called early retirement, which is paid by the company, or if it would not have been better to keep them in operation. That would be calculated once. Now again on the subject of apprentices, loss of thousands of training places. We must admit this, ladies and gentlemen, if we are honest with ourselves. In recent months we have all been addressed by many mothers and fathers who have been asked to provide assistance, have been asked to receive training places. The Chamber of Labour has published a few weeks ago that 8 200 young people have applied for training places, but currently only around 2 700 are free. Although the situation will improve by summer, according to the investigations, there is also a report in the "Kurier" today, it will be thank God, I must say that only 2,000 young people stay on the track, but that's exactly about 2,000 too many. Therefore, everything is to be done that they also have the opportunity to work, in training places! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I personally cannot befriend what Mr Leitl meant today: Those who are not so qualified should, with state support, stop handing over jobs. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the wrong way from our point of view, from the point of view of social democracy. We need to think together about how we have done this in recent years, it is also to think about what the public economy can bring in. We still have many training facilities, teaching workshops in the public sector, which can be reactive in order to give young people jobs and training places. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. There are x cases of political overcoloration. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] We've had this calculated, colleague Großruck. Overall, what this blue-black government has recolored costs from strings to ditz, so there are also your people involved, the taxpayer, the "little man", 30 million € or 420 million schilling. And this is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Big truck: Not recolored, colored!]] Admit yourself to that! It is also legitimate in a democracy to want to have other political occupations in a different state of government in addition to partyless, green, social democrats. You should say that and confess to it. But the way you do that, it's inhuman. And that's a great scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18787	Mr Lexer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18809	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, from my point of view, the obligation to disclose salaries in the public sector is not regulated by God internationally. It should be tried at European level to fix this obligation to disclose and thereby enable us to conduct comparative studies. It is of course true that our public salaries are also in international competition. It is clear that in Austria we should ensure that reasonable salaries are paid in the public service, for our officials and in our semi-governmental establishments, so that employees can stay in Austria and that the expertise remains in Austria. I also believe that it is important that the public service has a good salary schedule so that our officials are motivated and can form a civil and very modern administration. But if salaries in the public sector or in the semi-public sector are paid out in as high a sum as for example at the Tyrolian Airways, then it is simply no longer anyone to explain, then it is simply a sum that the "little man" really doesn't understand anymore, and I don't understand it either. [[It was a surprise to the ÖVP, to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] The same applies to salaries in the ORF. I want to say that it is partly really provocative, which sums are being dealt with there. I believe that this not only gives a bad look in relation to the average income of the Austrians, but it is also in the crass misunderstanding, for example, to the income of our estimated Chancellor. However, I do not want to criticize those who also make or perhaps do not earn this money, but at least take it and plug it in, but it is about how it was possible that such contracts could be concluded in Austria at all. That's where I'm really shaking my head! I think it is not fair, Mr Herb, if you look into the past and take a 1999 payout as an example to criticize the government, a payout, a discount that has already been made in previous years. The reason for the decrease in the number of apprentices is as simple as that; Statistics are easy to bend. It is clear that the apprentices fall out of these statistics, but of course they come somewhere else, namely the societies of the Volksoper, the Burgtheater and the Staatsoper. Therefore, it cannot be said that the apprenticeships are gone. They have been removed from these statistics, but they have been added elsewhere. If you read the morning report on the action of Leitl and Bartenstein on the apprenticeship offensive, you can see that it is also not right to put the anti-apprenticeship against us, the government. I would also like to have an intense discussion with the trade union. What am I hearing from the entrepreneurs, why do they no longer employ apprentices? – Because in certain sectors the apprentices are no longer applicable because our laws are so narrow that the apprentices can only watch more or less to learn how to do so and can no longer create their own hands. We should therefore discuss cross-sectoral issues. If the young people are really at our heart, we will develop opportunities and concepts so that the remaining 2,000 young people will also be accommodated. However, from my point of view, ladies and gentlemen, dynamic concepts are also to be considered in the public field. In other words, credit ratings should also be paid to the workforce in the event of measurable successes. This could help to implement dynamic concepts and motivate people. I am aware that this must not be done at the expense of the employees, but it should already be evaluated. In the rule of law, it is also of little use to lament and question legal service contracts. Unfortunately, you can't change anything. It remains only the possibility for the future that we take the figures as they are and at least no longer conclude such contracts. I would like this to be the consequence of this report for the future. There will always be large differences in income in the private market economy. – In the social market economy in Austria, however, there should be no slight differences, so that we can continue to have a balanced society in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18872	Mr Grünewald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18893	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I am referring to a subject on which the Court of Auditors has given me and many of my colleagues years of assistance, but: You can't help it, it didn't use anything! The topic is salary situation at universities, especially in the field of clinical institutes and university clinics. Many know that there are differences in income between specialist doctors of different special subjects, even between habilitated persons at clinics – almost equal to – which partially exceed tenfold. What's the reason? – This is the law-enforced winding-up of boards in special class patients. There's been a lot of abuses here for years. All appeals, all interventions, even a letter sent by me on the journey, signed by three ministers to a national captain, could not do anything. Hostasch, Einm and Edlinger signed this letter and made the country of Tyrol aware that there is no implementing law or constitutional regulation here. It took two years for the country of Tyrol to make it convenient to adopt an implementing law. And see: An interesting letter is received from the Federal Chancellery to the head of state, in which it reads: We would like to draw your attention to the fact that this law in its present version is clearly unconstitutional, but – you hear and marvel! – the final sentence states that the Constitutional Service does not object. I didn't understand the world anymore until it was explained to me that for a variety of reasons such a thing was not uncommon. I would You are asking to observe and to point out again that, in the context of the so-called partial jurisdiction, there are examples to be mentioned here. There has been a boss who has said in the negotiations with the subordinate doctors all serious and already in strict and rough tone: I also imagine at least 300 000 S from the private fees every month – and now the thickness of what does not have much to do with public service – then I am motivated to conduct the clinic. – When you hear this, it hurts and you wonder how beneficial it is for a climate when doctors who work on the same floor only because of different special subjects or different bosses – I say now – are facing the situation, for example, in the children’s clinic with 500 s per month, while an anaesthesiologist or radiologist with an additional 50,000 s per month – I’m not talking about bosses, but only about subordinate doctors – goes home. There were also people who said: I agree with the university on a contract of partial right, as Minister Gehrer has long called for him, only if I get so much money from the university every month guaranteed so and so much money; I do not call the sum, because that is, honestly, almost too risky. There have also been bosses who, when the university has tried to conclude contracts with them, have simply packed their laboratory, not in the green meadow, but in the beautiful city, and with two, three senior doctors, who have, in principle, made up only 15 percent of these charges, have disappeared. [[President Dr. Fassleven will again take over the presidency.]] If you criticize this, the free market will be tightened. – You certainly do not believe that the rules of the free market exist in the public service. Also the argument: If they were to become a radiologist and not a skin doctor, they would have become a surgeon and not a pediatrician!, probably none could be in the public service. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have been promised a scheme for years. What is fact? – In Tyrol, the scheme is unconstitutional. If you're suing this, you'll get a reply from the councillor: I make you responsible when this law is tilted, you get an even worse one, and then you explain it to your colleagues! – I don't think that's an uninteresting statement. I would like to draw your attention to a debate on this morning's university reform: All of this has happened in partial justice. I wonder, What will this be like only if those full rights and absolute majority are guaranteed – but this is more a word play – which now use and take advantage of these abuses in a restless way? What will it be like if, as stated in the Government's proposal now, there will be at least provisional medical universities? The motivation of some – I say some! – this operator is not to find fame and honor in one's own university, but rather is more uncontrollable to pursue their business in a non-medical public. I think this is honestly risky and would ask you to continue to pursue this issue so boldly and continuously. Perhaps we can also consider how reports from the Court of Auditors in this sector can do more than trouble with the criticisms and foreheads in some of the parties, who, in the corresponding committees, funnyly invite primary doctors and clinic leaders to provide information, which I find particularly amusing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18970	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Shame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e18991	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am not really addressing something new when I say that this report is an inexhaustible source for curious people, and I think that many curious Members are sitting here today. That's what my previous speakers have said. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (pointing at the mouth of the speaker) Closer!]] However, with this report: If you read it, you become more curious, but this curiosity is not satisfied, so to speak, because it is a statistical report rather than a test report. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (pointing to the microphones at the speaker's desk) Lower!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: The micro deeper!]] But now it is true that it is already very surprising and profound to read today in this report what contracts have been concluded in the electricity industry, for example, by the SPÖ representatives, Mr Cap. - Deep or high? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lower!]] The amounts agreed in these contracts are very high. Do you know how high they are? Four executive directors earn an average of 6 million schillings per year. 6 million schilling, Mr. Cap! Do you know what a worker deserves in this farm? Do you know that, Mr. Cap? Have you been concerned about this? You probably didn't deal with it, Mr. Cap, because you generally don't deal with workers when you float around on cloud seven! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] A worker in this company earns 200 000 s a year, and that is morally objectionable! Don't I talk to you about the soul? Why didn't you act there, Dr. Herbs? Is that not true? Please agree! [[Abg. Brosz: What does Princehorn deserve?]] It is really immoral when in the public, protected area some incomes are achieved beyond, I say, of good and evil. I think it is very important that the Court of Auditors evaluates and compares these things in future reports and that the Court of Auditors in these areas also look at the operating results obtained there, which public services are provided there. That must be a minimum requirement. I could also think a step further, and I will probably also find your agreement, Mr Cap – but now he has gone out after I have probably spoken to him "too deep". When he goes out, he doesn't notice me, but that's no wonder: The guy isn't that striking when you see him from behind. [[Abg. Edler: Hello! Where are we?]] - That's where we are. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Take care! Humble behavior!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] In any case, the fact is that it should be considered that income should be subject to a maximum limit. I am thinking, for example, of a number in the order of fifteen times a worker's income. Why don't you discuss that? I would be pleased to have this discussion, and perhaps it will also be stimulated by our side. That would certainly be very positive. Such contracts, as you have concluded with your own comrades, we have not made thanks to God. What you've done with it is a morally reprehensible situation. This is a parasitic arts industry, which is shown here and which we absolutely owe to the SPÖ and the previous government.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19169	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19191	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My predecessor's contribution is no longer to comment, except perhaps by adding a few things, for example, a quote from the "Economic Sheet", Mr. Colleague, in which he says: "Political turnaround makes some things much richer. ... now are... especially good times for highly-doped outputs. The government can cost a little bit of the overcoloring of the Republic." And because you are always looking at the Social Democrats, there is still a quote – and I ask you: who has concluded these contracts? –: "The change in the Chamber of Commerce has also produced a highly paid walker. The 52-year-old Manfred Gründler was too much of a reformist in the new leadership and was therefore placed on full service – 176 400 S per month." Or: "The Director General Günther Stummvoll, who was replaced at the same time, did not fall to the shadow side either. The State Secretary rests for the ÖVP in the National Council" - as everyone knows - "and at the end of his working life has the right to equal four pensions of a total of 225 000 S." [[Oh-and-oh-rufe at the SPÖ.]] Who has concluded these contracts? Do you know, Mr. Collegue, what a worker deserves when comparing this, when putting it in relation? – You have obviously forgotten that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: Remuneration Restriction Act!]] I forgot something. Do you know what an employee deserves, in relation to the fact that your short-term minister Michael Schmid is paying 175 000 S to pension? What workers deserve is well-known! But did you work for it? – You have forgotten that, my colleague. They always show only with the left finger, but not with the right one! But that these dizzying gags are paid, this happens in the face of the Minister of Finance, the Blue Minister of Finance and the Blue-Black Government. All this is possible since you've been in government. This is your new turn style, ladies and gentlemen. That's the turn style, that's Pirouettes! I've opened page 24. I notice the Tyrolean airport operating company. There's something very interesting here. In this report by the Court of Auditors on the Tyrolean Airways, Tiroler Aeronautics AG, it can be found that the only member of the board has received 5 500 000 S salary in 1999 and 56 456 000 S in 2000! Of these, 50 879 000 are pension payments, and in addition the "smallness" of 5 657 000 s is paid. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It was basically like this: Director Fritz Factl, who was here, didn't want to take his board mandate at all. He wanted to continue to work, but you didn't want him anymore, like so many ÖIAG board members or other managers, for whom you paid "cleaning costs" of a total of 440 million schilling, just so you can bring your color in there and unloving managers out. That is really the scandal! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of particular interest are other 36 management groups, whose references have been included in the Court of Auditors' report, i.e. the reference of the Federal Chancellor. Some examples have already been mentioned here, but I would like to take out Print Media Austria AG. In 1999, two members of the board received a further 3 710 000 S, but a year later 5 732 000 S. And in 2000, there were still 29 884,000 S paid for discharge. And do you know what these board members did for it? – At the same time as the increase in the number of members of the board of directors, the number of employees dropped from 171 in 1999 to 31 in 2000. – So a great performance of this board of directors! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a shame, ladies and gentlemen, that You can see just how these boards, which have reduced such a large number of employees or are responsible for an blatant decrease in the number of apprentices – a total of 1 378 apprenticeships or 20 percent – are responsible for providing even gage increases at this level! The Federal Forests have already been mentioned. There the two-person board of directors increased the "moderate" annual income from 2 692 000 S in 1999 to 10 171 000 S in 2000. But for this they also reduced 113 employees. This is the "performance" that happens under your eyes – under the eyes of Minister of Finance Grasser and the blue-black government! The rich can judge it, and the few workers become unemployed, earn less and become poorer. Sad, but true – the Court of Auditors proves it. This government is responsible for all of this, and there you have to take your nose!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19274	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19295	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr Reheis is likely to have had some other report, because the conclusions he draws from it are complete nonsense. I have to say it: You're complete nonsense! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Nürnberger: Say it again!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, as the body of the National Council, controls and reports on a number of undertakings and bodies. And it is our task, namely the task of Members, to take this control seriously. Mrs Hartinger rightly pointed out: There is one who takes an absolute top position among top-rankers, and this is Mr. Elsner, Mr. Elsner, who, with the support of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation – and this is of course particularly remarkable, ladies and gentlemen – gets €3.6 million in discharge! However, I would now like to refer to the report. There are some remarkable institutions, which obviously also believe that they have too much money. Overview 12 of this report leads us to ORF. The ORF has just recently stopped us financially. I mention a few words like for example: a forecast loss in this year of about €50 million, i.e. around 600 million schilling; or another keyword: a desired increase in fees for current fees of 4.5 billion schilling a year. Another keyword: more advertising times. I wonder, What more advertising times, if not even the current advertising times can be filled out? – And another key word, the original plan concerning top salaries: annual Director-General salary of 7.5 million Schilling, national directors' salaries beyond 3.6 million schilling. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these were a few keywords. But I am still telling you something from Salzburg, which is quite remarkable, Mr Schwamlein. In the Landesstudio Salzburg, three intendents are currently paid: First of all, the shot at country-intendent; he has signed a contract with Director-General Weiss and is feeding doves in full terms by September 2003; second, the former intendant from Tyrol, who had to go and is now in Salzburg in the case of intensive commercial directors; and third, the new intendant. So it looks like the ORF in the Landesstudio Salzburg. [[Abg. Swimmling: I didn't do this! That wasn't me! That's your coalition partner!]] However, it is also recommended to look at the heading of average income. – Mr Schwemlein, don’t be excited, but listen to me. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] The average income section is remarkable in so far as the ORF refuses to disclose the salaries to the Court of Auditors, in accordance with the Pays Restriction Act. This is also a very interesting fact. What's the ORF got to hide? I have no understanding at all that the Constitutional Court must make every effort to ensure that the ORF fulfils the disclosure obligation. But the Court of Auditors has probably been able to calculate an average income. . I don't know if you, Mr. Schwemlein, have read this. If not, then listen very well now! – The result is: The annual average income in the ORF – from the cable carrier to the intentional agent, from the cloister to the information manager – amounted to 1 million schilling in 2000. I repeat: From cable carrier to general intern, the average income was 1 million schilling! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, the ORF is lonesome, not only in the category of film and news, where there is an average annual income of 424,000 S – compared to the ORF: 1 million schilling – but the ORF is Austria's top among all the institutions tested – alongside the holding companies that are another thing. Ladies and gentlemen! That gives me enough reason to say that it is high time for the ORF not to talk about increases in fees or to ask for more advertising times, but to save it in its own home!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19363	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19385	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Mainoni, have you not confused a little about what you should talk about? If you are not satisfied with the ORF and its current contract design, you should talk to your coalition partner, and not with us. That would be your contact! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For being pulled over the table in terms of ORF, we can't do anything. I would like to make a comment on Mrs Hartinger's statement, which meant that the Court of Auditors' report shows that the Social Democrats are driving you from the coalition to the voters. – Mrs Hartinger, you are now in the government for two years. Have you forgotten the workers' chamber election? Have you forgotten the results of your election in Burgenland? Have you forgotten the elections in Vienna? – So I would look for another driver! I'd be looking for another driver. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On the Court's report: Already in the introduction, in general part, this report notes under the point "value of statement" that the figures can only be examined for their plausibility – whatever that may mean. On the other hand, the material accuracy of these figures cannot be examined. That's what gives me to think. I have remembered that the President of the Court of Auditors in the Committee's debate has meant that the Court of Auditors is completely overwhelmed by the use of personnel. There's too little staff. He has once again called for much more staff for the Court of Auditors. I always think of this when I hear the words of thanks from all the political groups when I thank you for the excellent achievements. I would also like to thank you, Mr President, for taking into account your comments and, above all, your wishes. In summary, the report has already been published on several occasions: The number of apprentices decreased between 1999 and 2001. – That is not true, the representatives of the ÖVP say, which are now out of place. However, I should like to quote again the statistics of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. The number of apprentices dropped from 1999 to 2001 by 5 184. So if you already think that the Court of Auditors' report is wrong, you will at least assume that the statistics of the Austrian Chamber of Commerce are true! [[Abg. You son of a bitch! He's got his fingers in there!]] – I don’t know, but in this case I would accept it. Ladies and gentlemen! That was the first point, the number of apprentices. Secondly, it should be noted that: Wherever there is a great deal of increase in the salaries of board members, staff are being reduced everywhere, employees are reduced and the average wage of employees is reduced. That is clearly to be proved. Of course, the beautiful gifts of the board members must be financed. A third point – as an example, I take the Federal Forest again, because this area is not necessarily related to us, because that is an area where, so to speak, the Social Democrats are not guilty. If you look at that, you notice: The figures are not quite understandable. The President of the Court of Auditors has also had to admit that. We have heard that at the Federal Forests 15 million Schillings were paid for discharge for a board of directors. Do you know how this is justified? – "gross content sum contains one-off payments from a member of the board..." – and now it's going to be exciting! – "Following migration into the new collective agreement." On the question to the President, which means: "Migration into the new collective agreement" – that has nothing to do with foreigners or so, no, that was a member of the board of the Federal Forest! – he meant that we can't say anything more precisely. But if you look closely at the figures, you notice that a member of the board of directors was processed with 15 million schilling because he is "migrated" from the Federal Forests. I wonder, What did the 130 employees receive in "immigration" pay, which were mined in the Federal Forests? [[Abg. Marizzi: You must ask Mr Schwarzenberger!]] What have all the employees who have been mined in those establishments quoted here in this report? - Nothing! On the contrary, they have to fight for their rights today at the Labour Court! [[Abg. Marizzi: They can thank Mr Schwarzenberger!]] What is stated here in this income report is really very interesting! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19464	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19485	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! A few days ago, there was something unusual in Vienna's commercial court. Helmut Elsner came to a public hearing and was received by a "FORMAT" photographer with a flashlight. - So far, so daily. What is not everyday is the reaction of Helmut Elsner: He takes his briefcase and thries on the photographer's head and camera. - So far, so unusual. I quote from the "Press" of the 11th. May 2002: "In "Format", Elsner was originally meant to be taken on grain because of the incident. But ‘from above’ came the instruction not to publish anything and to forward all relevant requests to editor Herbert Langsner. ‘The thing is done’, said Langsner to the ‘Press’. Whether intervention has taken place (Elsner is known for his legal action against journalists and other critics – 'Whoever attacks me is accused',...)?" My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's just the i-tumble to Elsner's affair! We have already heard of different dimensions of this affair: from the waste scandal, from the double gage scandal. And all of this has hardly found rainfall in the media. It's a scandal: The media would have been asked to ask the ORF to have television, radio, newspapers to bring such real scandals to light and not only to point them out in marginal notes. Scandals are being built up, but what is really a scandal, that is, everything around Mr Elsner, will be very discreet in small notes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's right!]] I wonder, What are the media afraid of? Maybe before they don't get any more ads? - That would be a variant. Perhaps they are also afraid of handgears, for they do not know what has not been written and brought. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And it has almost ended up in the media that Elsner – as a man with apparently 48 hours a day – wanted to secure his mandate as General Council in the course of a Rochade in the General Council of the Austrian National Bank. But this is not the case with the Federal Government of course! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I'm not alone with my indignation. At the ÖGB, too, we've been talking about what's going on. I quote from a reader's letter: "After 36 years of membership in the GÖD (the Public Service Union), after more than 25 years of work as chairman of the Trade Union Works Committee and after more than ten years of membership in the State Executive Board (of course free of charge), I need to justify my retirement from the ÖGB publicly. ... Millions of Austrians are desperately trying to make a profit in Lotto," – listen carefully! –, "Mr. Director-General Elsner, on the other hand, retired with a quadruple jackpot! Forget the lottery game," you too, colleague Schwemlein! – " apply at BAWAG! [[Abg. You son of a bitch!]] Or leave the union!" - Quote. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is the letter of the reader with the date and signature. You'll understand I don't have to add anything to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19573	Next, the President of the Court of Auditors speaks Dr. Fierce. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19595	Mr President. High house! The Court of Auditors is under constitutional obligation to submit every two years a report containing the data on the average income and pensions of the public economy. He presented this report on the years 1999 and 2000. The report has been discussed in great detail in the Committee and, as I see it now in plenary, has found great support. There were a number of words about it. But I would like to stress: Not for nothing does this report mean: Report on the data on average income and public-sector pensions. It is therefore necessary to record the income and pension data of the Court of Auditors, to check for plausibility and then to report to the House. I emphasize: Income and pension data. Although it has rightly been said here – and the Court of Auditors itself has noted this in its report – that we can only check this data for its plausibility, I think that the finding is justified that whenever individual data has been subject to a closer review, even to the suggestion and question of Members – that is for the interest of Members of this House – these data have still proved to be true. But these are data on income and pensions. It is not employment-related data. I would like to maintain this with all clarity, because, regardless of the length of this report and the ability to express it, we must not want to read too much from the report, nor should we want to put too much into this report. That is, if one wants a report on employment policy relevant data, then this report would have to look different and then the data collection would have to be different. I am very aware of this with regard to the discussion already held in the Committee and now in plenary, whether the number of apprentices in the public sector has fallen or increased. I would just like to say very carefully: We know that in order to reorganise the Bundestheaterverband, to this extent, changes have been made, which we also noted in the report; but these restructurings in the Bundestheaterverband in principle resulted in a different situation in 2000 compared to that in 1999. I do not wish to be the highest representative of the Court of Auditors. I would like to express this clearly in order not to give a false impression, namely that this report gives even more than it already does. I would also like to warn against creating longer periods of time and drawing certain conclusions from them. It was in the Committee's opinion that time series should be drawn up over ten years, and then the relevant analyses should be carried out. I would also like to warn against that. I would like to remind you: We do not have the same companies as we did ten years ago, we have much less! Five years ago, the Court of Auditors had to include around 500 and more enterprises in this income survey. Now it's not even 300 anymore. Therefore: I think it is extremely dangerous to draw up time series under these conditions and to carry out final analyses of employment policy. I am therefore going to distance myself from this because, in my opinion, this can only result in a distorted picture in toto, that is, in total for all public undertakings. If there is an interest in it, then you should use the data relating to the individual company. In this respect, it is quite possible to make reliable statements about a longer period of time, but also this with certain reservations, because there were restructurings there, because there were some missing competences, partly because mergers took place and more so. I should therefore like to warn against putting more into this report, but also more to read out than is in it. High house! Some Members have referred to the fact that this report does not contain an actual audit report from the Court of Auditors. I can fully confirm this and have already expressed it several times in the past. This report is a statistical survey. What has been suggested by some Members of Parliament, namely that it might be more favourable to put these statistical surveys into other hands, in hands that work every day with statistics that have to operate with statistics that collect statistical data, I can only fully emphasize. I would also like to say that I do not regard statistical work as less than that of the Court of Auditors, but it is a different activity. Everyone should actually do the best they can, and these are the auditors in the Court of Auditors and, for example, the statistics in the "Statistics Austria". If, in this House, a process of thinking has been initiated as to whether or not to relocate the competences for drawing up this report, I can assure you: You have the Court of Auditors on your side in this regard. I am pleased that this report has been adopted and that thanks have been given to the Court of Auditors, but I should like to ask that this consideration continue in this House, perhaps in order to achieve a result that will satisfy both the Court of Auditors and this House and perhaps also the "Statistics Austria". - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19662	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Doppelmüller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19683	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The President of the Court of Auditors has made it very clear in his speech that this report, which we are here today, is not an audit report but a statistical one. As good as the Court of Auditors' work in this report is, so unsatisfying is actually the result for our Members. Of course, it is interesting to look at this report and, of course, you find inconsistencies in detail. I found among other things the very funny thing: There is a Brenner Eisenbahn GmbH, and with this the salary of the managing director increased by 45 percent in a year, while the salary of the only apprentice fell by about 11 percent. I'm sure that wouldn't have happened if Mr. Hakl were still a lawyer there, but she left in 1999. It's clear to me: If you look more closely, then you might notice that this is a new apprentice. But it is worrying if the managing director suddenly gets more by 45 percent of his salary. So in detail, you could find a lot of things that would be interesting. It should be noted, in principle, that there is a type of action here that is worrying when it is called for that the "Statistics Austria" or similar bodies should be switched on. This is one of the ways of this coalition, which seems somewhat worrying to me, not the way through the desert of Gobi, but the way through which the control mechanisms are changed and dismantled. This is also very boldly criticised by the President of the Court of Auditors again and again at the meetings, namely the demand for less control and, as I see it, the control which I have just mentioned, where it is still there, and which, in particular, the Court of Auditors and its President are not in favour of the control I have referred to here. Mr Scheuch is looking forward to deep-seated research. I would also be pleased if these took place, but it is simply a matter of fact that the number of companies to be examined has fallen from 582 in 1994 to 294 in 2000, and it is probably already less apparent. The number of companies examined is falling. That cannot really be in the sense of our Members. A problem which unfortunately does not arise from this report, since, as you say, Mr President, it is not an audit report, it concerns the Gagen. To sum up, the averages give a very interesting value, as can be seen in this report. We can also see what supervisory councils deserve in total. However, we cannot see from the report which managing directors or board members are also involved in the supervisory bodies. In this context, I must say that the criticism that has been presented here today at the BAWAG General Director for his income is quite legitimate. That's where only Lotto-Toto was addressed anyway. But this is not only about the BAWAG director alone, but I believe that we all have bodies in the basement, which I believe are the least. I am thinking of Mr Götz. It is strange which egg dances are repeatedly listed by all of us here when an income discussion is conducted. It's starting with politicians. According to "Kronen Zeitung", our image is once again on the ground. I ask you: Why do we not decide to have a complete transparency of our incomes? We have nothing to hide! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I mean not only those incomes of the Freeman in connection with the 66 000 S, but the real income and wealth of every Member or politician or minister. You don't need to be ashamed of that! Mr Prinzhorn is our President and also a successful entrepreneur. It would be very interesting to know what the Foundations are bringing or what a Member of Parliament as a doctor or a home pharmacy owner has in income – just as interesting as what Mr Elsner has. That would be the transparency I mean. Let us open politicians all our incomes, including private ones! As I said, those who go beyond the 66 000 S net. That would make sense, that would be understood by the population. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Also worth testing would be the "recoloration action", which has already been addressed here a few times today. You're talking about 420 million. For example, this does not take into account the place of Minister Strasser. It will also cost something if officials are sent to retirement early. I think it would be worth an audit by the Court of Auditors, and that could be exciting. I hope that the Court of Auditors will carry out no less control at the beginning – also following Mr Scheuch's considerations – but that, in the sense of transparency, it will act even more efficiently in order to bring light into a lot of darkness.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19755	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19776	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! More and more often I have to give my friend Peter Doppelmüller a right, even in this debate, when he says: Let's make everything transparent! Let's talk about it: Is something okay when it comes to work and the Gage paid for it, or is it not all right, is it in a relationship, or is it not in any relation?- Oh, my God! Mr President of the Council! I'm glad I discovered you in the last row. Let's talk about it! Is this in relation or not in relation, which has been discussed publicly about your BAWAG general lately?- Oh, my God! By the way, he doesn't want to talk about it. He has given me this clearly and clearly with a suit in which it is a total dispute value of €359 240. Mr President of the Council! Your BAWAG general Elsner doesn't want us to talk about it publicly. You are obviously not, either, because you seem to be deepening into the reading of a note, Mr President Vergestnitsch! The BAWAG is 53.57 percent owned by the ÖGB. The ÖGB is therefore majority-owned. You are the President of the ÖGB, Mr Fritz Verzetznitsch, who sits in the last row and pretends you are not listening. With your ÖGB, you have strongly supported the social state popular desire, which you claim has been concerned about the fact that the social network in Austria is not close enough, although the network we have in Austria is the densest network we find in all European countries, and although it has been made even more just. You have supported this social state popular desire with your ÖGB. Now, Mr President, I ask you: How do you deal with your general Elsner, who has received an early retirement pension of 50 million schillings, tax-free before the 31st century. December 2000? [[Abg. Silhavy: How do you deal with Mr Götz?]] Despite this retirement, he is still a BAWAG general, and for this he has a rich annual budget, which is beyond 5 million schillings. [[Abg. Silhavy: What about the Götz?]] It may be that he is so good – he should earn it! But I think that if you earn 5 million schillings, you have a lot to do so that you really earn this money. In such a responsible position you have to work for quite a long time, and that is why I wonder: How is it possible that this BAWAG-General is also a Executive Director at Austrian Lotteries GmbH and takes over around 4 million Schilling there again? Mr President, I ask you: Can this man, as a fully spent BAWAG general, still have enough time left to fulfil the job of a Chairman of the Executive Board? Can he do that? Is this at all compatible with an activity in a trade union bank, especially since the trade union is committed to equal opportunities for all workers? Mr President, I asked you questions. They owe me the answers! Mr President of the Council! Did you know about it: yes or no? I think so. What do you say, Mr President? The answer is open! Why have you not taken a position on this causa to this day? Can one do the job of a BAWAG general director as a half-day job? Is that really possible? Is the job of a BAWAG general director a half-day job? Will you take consequences from the proceedings concerning the BAWAG director Elsner or not, Mr Vergestnitsch? If you want to be a credible representative of the trade union members, come out here and explain to the trade union members why Mr. Elsner gets a retirement pension, for which a normal worker, a normal member of your trade union must work more than 200 years! In addition, he still earns 9 million schillings a year, although he has already collected 50 million schillings. Mr President. Come on. Please get out of here and explain this to us, otherwise you will be unbelievable as President of the Workers! That is not what we want, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19833	The next speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19862	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! From the BAWAG back to the Federal Government! Mr Schweitzer and Mr Westenthaler, we make a small milkmaid bill more than 300 million schilling for political cleansing actions in close-to-state enterprises plus 320 million schilling for external consultants for your incompetent ministers – that starts with Krüger, continues via Sickl and via Schmid and goes up to Forstinger – and more than 300 million schilling for advertising measures, for advertisements and TV spots! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: BAWAG!]] [[Deputies Mag. Schweitzer and Ing. Westenthaler: Elsner! BAWAG!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that Mr. Finanzminister is here, because he has done it very much in the Financial Times: an advertisement on personal advertising for his future career as an international financial manager by 820 000 S! Mr Finanzminister, it would be good if you could speak on this matter. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the listed listing up to date.]] Ladies and gentlemen! These ads at these costs, for rising unemployment rates and for thousands of apprentices who do not find a place of training, that is the true scandal!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e19931	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-128 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – I notice: This is the majority, and this report has been taken note of. 9. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 666/A by Mr Hermann Böhacker, Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends a federal law on the independent financial Senate and the BAO, the customs law implementing law, the 1989 procurement law, the Introductory Act on the Administrative Procedures Law 1991, the Financial Criminal Law and the Tax Management Organisation Act (AbgRmRefG) (1128 of the Supplements) 10. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (781 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Federal Budget Act (1129 of Supplements) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report and request of the Budget Committee on the draft federal law amending the 2002 Federal Finance Act (1130 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20009	We now come to points 9 to 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Heindl has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20036	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: At the plenary session, held on 18 February. The tax-law reform law was dealt with in April 2002. It is a somewhat complicated title, but it at least gives at least the contents of the law. This matter of law was discussed in detail at the time, but in the end no legislative decision was taken. At the heart of this law is the creation of an independent financial senate, as we all know, and I have criticised, in the context of this then debate on behalf of my group, that a matter relating to the administrative reform law and consequently to tax money, namely the extension of the flexibilisation clause, is not on the agenda and thus the decision-making process. Today, she is doing well, and this also shows that we have been on the right track with the procedure we have proposed. In the context of the discussions in the Financial Committee, representatives of our group have already explained why we see an objective link between these two materials and are only willing to ensure the required two-thirds majority in the two legislative documents if our ideas on this matter, which were clearly objective, are taken into account to a large extent. During the debate, representatives of the two government parties tried to bring me up with a flexibilization clause. We said at the time: We are prepared to agree under certain conditions, we are once again talking about it. In principle, I have put forward our agreement on both of the materials. We were just not to have done five before twelve two so important materials, for which a two-thirds majority is required. Their reaction was rather unusual, ladies and gentlemen. You have made it possible to negotiate again through your behaviour. In these parliamentary talks – which were certainly very hard discussions – we were able to achieve an extension of the flexibilization clause, and thus the conditions for our consent to the tax-law reform law were created. I say once again what I have emphasized several times, ladies and gentlemen: We are ready to guarantee and go with the two-thirds majority in the case of essential materials, but we want to have detailed discussions, we are not for Husch-Fusch procedures, where there is no time to explain their ideas, and we only insist that it be done. I would like to stress once again: As with previous important legislative instruments, we are willing to give our consent within the framework of the representative. I would just like to point out one thing – and I ask you not to be misunderstood: We are the strongest group in this House and we have a commitment to our voters. If we assume responsibility, we do not agree easily, but only under certain conditions. Even in the debate on financial market supervision, a hugely important matter, we have tried to carry out our ideas in the first run-up. They negated it at the time; in the second run it worked thank God. Today, as I have put it on behalf of my group, we are going to vote in favour of both this tax-applicable-reform law and the extension of the flexibilisation clause. Allow me, in three sentences, to say what this law is all about and why it is so important in our view. With the independent financial Senate, we are convinced that the legal protection standard will be increased. There is no doubt that the independent financial Senate will bring a harmonization in the case law, because, although dislodged, there is a single authority. Finally, we hope that – Mr Böhacker has already said this in the last debate – it will lead to a reduction in the number of cases before the Administrative Court. However, it is not, ladies and gentlemen, to say yes automatically to everything. In the discussion on this issue, the organization in financial management was discussed – I say it carefully – and it says the closing of financial offices in the area. You will not get any consent from us, ladies and gentlemen, if you really want to. I would like to understand that our fellow Members, especially those from the regions, attach great importance to the fact that a separate vote on this point, on Article VII(1), is taking place. My colleague, Mr Hagenhofer, will justify this and put forward a motion for a resolution, and my colleagues will continue to deal with this issue as a whole. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20098	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20119	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The legislative papers that we now have for decision-making are an example of good cooperation in the Committee – something that unfortunately is very rarely mentioned in the media reports. Since Mr Edlinger is signaling me through his mimik what he has told me today, I would like to start my speech with it. As has been said, this package of laws is a good example of the culture of discussion and negotiation that we have in the Financial Committee. This is certainly the merit of all the committee members, especially those of my predecessor, Mr Kurt Heindl, who is the chairman of the Financial Committee. I would also like to say, however, that Mr Edlinger, who often plays his opposition role on the speaker's desk here, and who is verbally active in verbal attacks, is prepared to cooperate in the committee in an objective and constructive manner. I would like to expressly acknowledge this culture of dialogue and negotiation, which exists in the Financial Committee. During the last plenary session, we have already discussed the major reform project "independent financial senates" in terms of content. I myself, with a colleague from the FPÖ, with Hermann Böhacker, then made the request to postpone the third reading, because we were unable to reach agreement on the points of the Constitution. We said at the time that we were not willing to allow a junkimization of this important matter with other materials, but of course we agreed to find a solution for another subject, namely the famous flexibilization clause in federal budgetary law. We then tried – and the attempt was fortunately successful – to solve both problems. I am really happy today that we did not vote at third reading last time, have postponed this vote, and have thus received the opportunity to adopt both legislative instruments today. I do not want to say anything on the content of the independent financial statements, since we have already held this discussion here in plenary for the last time. I just want to say so much: After the supervision of the financial market, we have achieved another major reform project, which we are glad to have received the constitutional majority with the help of the opposition parties because of the good negotiating and discussion climate in the financial committee. The other point, namely the extension of the flexibilisation clause, has really moved all the political groups. The starting point of the SPÖ was that it should be extended as it now stands in the law. On the other hand, we have said: The flexibilization clause is a good instrument, it is praised by everyone, but actually it is strange that it is applied by so few. There's something wrong with that! Our consideration was: It appears that the motivation for the budgetary bodies, for the specialist departments, to introduce this flexibilisation clause into their departments is not sufficient. I believe that the solution we have now found is a good condition for the future use of more specialist departments and more organisational units than has been the case so far. Our consideration was as follows: If a facility is good, then it cannot be that only in three resorts, seven organizational units make use of it. I very much hope that the construction we have now found, namely the creation of an agreement between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance on the use of surpluses - from positive balances of conduct, that is, I believe, in the law - can improve the situation so far. It is therefore to be agreed between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Finance, which proportion of the respective organisational unit is given and how the remainder is to be divided. In addition, we have also taken up the suggestion of Mr Edlinger to make a new deadline, namely until 2006. This very nice example confirms once again my two-world theory: I experience the working world on the one hand, and there we have very constructive discussions, and on the other hand I also experience the media world, where the mutual attacks naturally form the headlines. This is an appearance which unfortunately does not reflect the constructive cooperation we have in the Financial Committee. Finally, I should like to say to all the political groups that I am very happy that we have such a good negotiating climate in the financial committee. What I can contribute to this will continue to exist in the future, I will be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20173	The next speaker is Mr Böhacker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20195	Mr President. Federal Minister! I was on the 18th. April already has sufficient opportunity to explain the tax-law reform law in all its scope here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You already did that in the committee!]] In committee, then in plenary, and now again. That's why I'm short now. Mr Kogler! I know you were quite surprised that I spoke for so long, and you listened attentively because you might also be able to learn some new things. As the charred caps are now settled in connection with the flexibilization clause between the former coalition parties, nothing stands in the way of setting this milestone on the way to an independent bi-institutional judicial procedure. A truly great reform work! Together with the reform of financial management, with the reform of the financial offices, but also with the merger of the audits of all wage-dependent charges, this reform work proves that this federal government is not only a reform government but also a successful reform government. How was that in the past? – In the past, decisions on appeal have been taken by Senate or by individual officials. There was the problem that very often individual officials were in their own case when deciding: They have decided in the field and at the same time in the appeal body. This mixed use will be eliminated in the future, from now on there are clear structures. I assume that this will also lead to the discharge of the highest courts, because, through independence, the freedom of guidance of decision-making bodies, the acceptance of the decision of these independent financial Senates will be much greater among citizens, in the appeals. Compliance with the requirement of economy, economy and economy is also ensured by the aggregation of all legal proceedings. There are also no restrictions on access to the court, there is no legal force, there is no cost compensation in the case of non-observatories and so on, and there is no duty to pay. To sum up, I can say: This federal law on the independent financial Senate is a major strengthening of citizens' rights, and I thank all the political groups that have contributed to the implementation of this reform work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20235	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20280	Mr President. Federal Minister! There are three types of law. There will be our agreement to all three, at least at the third reading. All these materials have already been discussed. It is interesting, however, why, Mr President, you, the process you described, have gone so far away from the idea that this was a junkim. In a way, it was very good, and I believe that a party or opposition as a whole would be granted this means if it could be crediblely represented to enforce certain things. In this case, it happened that not only did you not bring the third reading on stage in this way, but it was probably also the persistent will of the SPÖ, which ultimately also contributed to the condition of this solution. All in all, then, there are the characteristics of a junkim again, and that doesn't always have to be the worst – let's say it that way. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Stummvoll and Edlinger.]] No, but there are junk times to which you can also stand positive, because you want to impose any interests that you stand to, and that's all right. I am now again referring to the flexibilization clause: I believe that this is an important thing, because it cannot always be kept in the process of talking about New Public Management, about more self-responsibilities on and in the services, but the matter then remains, as it were, at the level of Sunday's speeches. However, the question will be – Mr President, it has pointed out — to what extent the Animo is now sufficient to ensure that this instrument is really adopted by several sides. I hope that at least this compromise does not stand in the way of the matter, and in the more favourable case, it even promotes something. I can already get a certain degree of optimism from this point of view. In this matter, I think, the thing is on the right track. At the end, however, also a critical remark: The President of the Court of Auditors, in his reports on disseminating – in the last activity report, dedicated to the whole chapter – notes that these things, namely global budgeting and the like, could lead to the failure of some sort of dissemination to show this speed, because some of them – especially through this speed and also because otherwise not all the optimal conditions are given – do not at all lead to the desired efficiency. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – This was the break for the Green Group. [[Abg. Böhacker: Frenetic applause with the greens!]] Yeah, I made an extra break. You haven't been involved in this way with your team for a long time, even though you're in the government! [[Abg. Achatz: With such a small team you can say that quietly!]] I'm allowed to come back to the seriousness of the subject. – At least that would be a moment to hold back and say: In the case of these many exclusions, we could also handle this in such a way that, where the conditions are met, we are going to deal with it and, where there are at least a few critical moments, leave us quite some time, look at the matter differently and ask whether other measures to this end, which is set out, might lead us. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. Böhacker: He didn't take a break now!]] It would be interesting to take this into account. I can say goodbye because the three minutes are over.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20362	The next speaker is Mr Edlinger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20384	Mr President. Mr. Minister! The SPÖ will agree to all business and, of course, also those who need a constitutional majority. These relate to independent financial Senates and the flexibilisation clause. ==References== On April, both materials were indirectly on the agenda: the financial senates were actually and the other matter on the basis of the so-called junkimization that the SPÖ carried out – whereby the word "junktim" would have to be interpreted authentically here, because a junkim usually means that a partner will receive something from the other partner. We have yanktimized so that the Minister of Finance gets the financial senate and the flexibilization clause. As an opposition party, we voted against the government to strengthen the Minister of Finance in its position – and I think that is a remarkable junkim! I am also very glad that we have found this solution, although it is not exactly the solution I have considered to be the optimal one. In this too, I actually have an opinion with my successor to the office. I am also very pleased, Mr Federal Minister, that you are sitting here today, because of course your State Secretary has not been able to answer my questions in committee or elsewhere. One thing I would have been interested in: You have, Mr. Finanzminister, in a report you gave me on 28 November. In a very interesting convolution, the flexibilisation clause explained in September 2001, also the fact of the potential budget savings, which are at least significant, between 3.7 and 10.9 percent, and then stated that the pilot phase has shown that the continuation of the flexibilisation clause should be in the common interest of all parties involved. I also have the Council of Ministers' presentation of 10. I am in front of you on October 22, 2001, where you yourself, Mr. Finanzminister, report on the advantages of the flexibilisation clause again and then, in the lecture to the Council of Ministers, will literally say that the Council of Ministers has already taken note of the planned extension of the flexibilisation clause twice – and you refer in this context to your presentations to the Council of Ministers of 22 October 2001. ==References== October 2001. – With the presentation of the 10th edition. On 22 October 2001, the Council of Ministers decided on the exact presentation three times, Mr. Finanzminister, whom you had sent to the Committee. The Committee was also represented by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. To my greatest amazement – and it would only interest me to see how the dynamics of an opinion-forming process is going on, otherwise nothing – it was completely surprisingly abandoned from the agenda at that time – surprisingly only for those who do not know the background. It was quite clear to me. You might now be blue-eyed to ask: What actually happened? The Minister of Finance is convinced of the need for the Federal Government to decide on a proposal three times, and at a very early stage, Mr. Finanzminister – you remember, Mr. Minister – with the budget speaker of the opposition party – the one who can provide you with the two-thirds majority – whether we agree. That too has happened. And suddenly, Get out! – although the flexibilisation clause had given rise to considerable savings and was desired by the Minister of Finance. Whoever, however, knows the history of the origin and the background, will of course be clear, because your coalition partner, who was once our coalition partner, of course, had no joy at all with this flexibilization clause, because, as I think, in recognition of the situation, this coalition partner, which is one common at the time and today, is obviously not interested in a strong position of the Minister of Finance, either in the earlier or in the current government constellation. In principle, I find that – I mean it very seriously – really unfortunate, because in the budget implementation there can be no different bosses. There can only be in the budget implementation one that must ultimately have the reins in hand. It was quite clear to me that, of course, this was not right for my former and your current coalition partner, and I have already found it very surprising that during the parliamentary talks we have finally found on this compromise solution, in which we have enforced that you are at least included when deciding what to do with the money – that was not planned before, but that was the compromise variant – and finally, from the official side of your ministry as an advisory expert, a high official of the Ministry of Agriculture was available to the small Members, but an official of the Ministry of Agriculture – quite strangely. I could not explain to myself why this had to be a senior official of the Ministry of Agriculture, but I took note of that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Böhacker and Dr. Stummvoll.]] A little light in the dark of opinion formation comes when you read the answers to the question. You have received three requests from Mr Maier, one of you, one of Mrs. Vice-Chancellor and one of the last of Mr. Agriculture Ministers, and it is interesting that in their reply you and Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, say correctly – or better, quite equally right – because the other answer is not correct either – that the flexibilisation clause led to performance improvement and budget savings, that it was an appropriate instrument and that you hope – you, Mr. Finanzminister, and also the Vice-President, say that – that the talks lead to a solution, while the Minister of Agriculture, of interest, says that he hopes that the distribution of the funds to the so-called Budgetary Body – that is the new German expression for Minister of Finance – is not the Minister of Finance. Anyway: Opinion-making processes are difficult. I am very glad that we have found a solution beyond all interests. We have the slightest interest in this situation, but I am very pleased that I was able to help my successor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20461	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mühlbachler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20496	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Edlinger, as mysterious as you have described it, are the backgrounds, I think, but not, but of course the location largely determines the position. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Edellinger]] But one thing, I believe, can be held after all the discussions: that all the parties have made it clear that they are not satisfied with the fact that budgeting and budget implementation in general contain a large number of static elements, and that, therefore, the flexibilization clause can at least partly be found a way out. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that today's decision-making on the flexibilisation clause cannot and will not be the end of an improved budget implementation policy, but that it will be its beginning, because I believe that, through self-responsibilities, a very substantial saving potential can be generated even in those areas that have the budget implementation – my predecessor has already mentioned it: between 3.7 and 10 percent – and that should not be forgotten. The whole thing is, of course, based on the fact that the budgets of public bodies indicate that operations that lie in the future could be precisely predicted and anticipated, which of course does not entirely correspond to the realities. In order to enable better adaptation to future realities, I believe that the flexibilisation clause is also a first instrument, and I am convinced that in the future – where we have chosen the period by the end of 2006 – services will be used by this flexibilisation clause more than before. I wish you, Mr Federal Minister, and, of course, also the individual trade ministers and the subordinate departments, that you will all benefit from this flexibilization clause, so you will all be convinced that this is the right way. If today the foundation stone can be laid, then we can be satisfied for the future. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20538	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20559	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate has once again developed where it becomes quite clear how active this federal government is and where reform steps are being taken everywhere that have not occurred in recent years. With the tax-law reform law and, above all, with the flexibilization clause, we take steps that really make us quite free in the possibilities to work much better and more economical. I just think it's the right path we've taken here. Mr Cap said this afternoon there was a relationship crisis between our clubman and the ÖVP clubman. - Don't worry about him. This government is firmly established, and these two political groups are holding together firmly. Faith I don't know what you're talking about. We will certainly not let this harvest take us! The longer the grapes are on the floor, the more sweet the wine becomes. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Very good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Not all that hangs is a fitting comparison!]] I would also like to say the following: I like to be willing to put my income on the table in every form. Only, my colleague, Mr Doppelmüller: Then I would also expect the trade union to disclose its fund of strikes, which contains the funds of its members, and that it will not come to such things as it is currently in connection with President Elsner. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that what is particularly important is the fact that these steps have been taken, just as the government has worked in recent months. We have set out guidelines in the government programme, which lead particularly strongly to a rejuvenation and a narrowing of the state. We want to be much more close to the citizen, we want much less state, and this is also reflected in the last steps of reform we have taken. Just think about the administrative reform, which has already been implemented by 50 percent and with which a total savings volume in the order of 262 million € is linked. Or think of the recent step that this Federal Government has taken with the preparation of the discharge: For the first time, it will be possible for all 2 million workers who did not receive a job in the past to come to a finish. This government also shows a social quality that a former socialist-led government could not refer to! Or just think about how the guidelines were set in the preparation of the administrative reform: increased citizen orientation, acceleration of procedures, deregulations – we have introduced at least 60 laws to implement deregulation alone! This Federal Government is ready to work closely with all of us, and it is now – and I am pleased, Mr Edler – that your group too will vote in favour of it and that it may perhaps be accessible to the positive things that are being done here. I think it would be much better if we worked unitedly for our Republic. Together with this law, we have taken a big step forward. Austria is a powerful state – a success for the people of this country – and for the economic location this Federal Government guarantees!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20615	The next speaker is Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20637	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I will deal with a specific provision of this law on tax and appeal reform, and I will begin with a request made by Members Gradwelt, Hagenhofer, comrades and comrades for a separate vote in accordance with § 65 para. 5 GOG on agenda item 9, tax-law reform law, including: The signed Members request a separate vote on Rule VII(1) within the meaning of the cited provision of law. Why? – Article VII Paragraph 1 gives the Minister of Finance, as it were, free of charge, because the Minister of Finance may, by means of a regulation, if it is organisationally appropriate, abolish the assignment of individual tasks to general financial offices and delegate these tasks to financial offices with special responsibilities. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: You want a strong finance minister, Mr Edlinger said! Mr Edlinger: A strong finance minister?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Edlinger: I'm for it anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen! What this means for the rural regions is another indication to us that we need a separate vote so that it cannot be possible to do so – since you have been in the government of ÖVP and FPÖ. Starting from the closures of the Post Offices – there is a post office in a rural region to pick up a package to return a distance of 12 kilometers! – on the "transition", under quotation marks, the gendarmerie post – this was nothing but the closure of the Gendarmerie Posts – and the closure of district courts until the merger of postal and railway buses: [[Abg. Auer: How many have locked the post?]] What quality of life do you expect from such government decisions in the regions? If the Minister of Finance can assign the tasks of financial offices with special responsibilities, what remains with the financial offices with the so-called general tasks, ladies and gentlemen? The question will be referred to this Regulation, which may be adopted by the Minister for Finance: What is the financial office of the issuing body? – The rest of the financial offices will be sent to citizens' offices, to customer centers, to teams. And if you look at the staff standing lists of senior staff, it will not take long until you can find that one or other senior post has been suspended from another office – and again qualified jobs are gone from the regions! [[Abg. Böhacker: That's why the wind blows!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This cannot be the policy of a SPÖ, and therefore we are also opposed to this section 4 paragraph of Article VII(1). 3rd. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We expect our quality of life. We expect a Europe of the regions to be allowed to live as well, and we therefore expect you to leave the last public jobs still in place in the regions and not to centralize them, as it is simple and appropriate. It is always simple and useful for urban areas, but never for rural regions, and you, ladies and gentlemen, should know that too! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That is why I would like to ask all Members of the rural community to agree to this motion for a resolution. We all don't know what the Minister of Finance can and wills. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20761	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported, is sufficiently relevant to matter and therefore also to the negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Schottel-Delacher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20785	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! High house! I think it has already been discussed enough this evening about the mysterious links and dependencies between the tax-law reform law and the flexibilization clause. I would therefore like to devote myself to another issue from the agenda items that we are just discussing. As we all know, the terrible events of the 11. September last year several effects on the most diverse areas and unfortunately still have them. The present application for the Federal Financial Act 2002, 1130 of the Supplements, deals with the specific impact on insurance protection for air carriers and airports. Let's remember: Right after the attacks in New York, insurance companies could and did not want to assume liability for certain Austrian airlines and Austrian airports, as the risk of damage due to terror and war events was not insured under reasonable conditions. The Austrian state, like all European states, had to assume the responsibility for such risks at the earliest opportunity, otherwise the arduous aeronautics industry would have become insurmountable problems. Without adequate insurance coverage, the aircraft would not be allowed to take off or land, which would have left the entire air traffic to a certain extent. As a result, the National Council authorised the Minister of Finance for Liability, under certain conditions relating to amount and time-limitation and in accordance with relevant decisions at EU level, to be extended several times by one month each, last until 31. ==References== According to the then assessment, it was not assumed that a further extension over the 31st century would take place. It would also be necessary in May. The news of the last days and weeks, however, has taught us another person. Further threats of terror, apparently even against Austria, are overshadowing the reports of new ones. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Whenever the deadline expires, it is so!]] In view of these developments, it is expected that the existing regulation at EU level will be above the 31st level. In May, it was extended. In order to avoid competitive disadvantages for Austrian aviation and Austrian airports, Austria will, of course, have to join these measures. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, in order to avoid temporary bottlenecks in the future – the empowerment was considered only for one month each – and as a purely precautionary measure, the Minister of Finance is now to be authorised to assume the assumed liabilities up to a maximum of 31. If necessary, extend it for a period of one month. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: That was the prophecy when we discussed it! Everyone has sworn stone and leg, it won't be like that!]] This procedure should be welcomed in principle for reasons of time and administration. But it must be clear, ladies and gentlemen, that this must not be a permanent state. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes, exactly!]] Insurers and, above all, reinsurers whose basic business is to cover the risks of others, and who, of course, also pay corresponding premiums, cannot simply shift their responsibility to the state, if the risk actually threatens, and take over the responsibility again and register the premiums when the thunderstorm clouds are withdrawn. If this were to be a permanent state, the State could assume this liability and the corresponding premiums equally, i.e. also in quiet times, which would not be in the interest of the State or the insurance industry. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. Dr. Lichtenberger]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: The insurance industry already, Mrs. Colleague! They'd be very interested in it!]] We should therefore urgently act on the EU to ensure that this exceptional state does not become a permanent state.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20875	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e20896	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. In the context of the reform of the independent financial Senate, the fundamental reform of financial management has also been addressed several times. Let me therefore address the UFS also in this greater congregation. From our point of view, this independent financial senate is an important sub-project of a comprehensive, fundamental reform of the Austrian financial administration, a reform of this financial management towards an even greater service orientation than is already the case today, to even greater efficiency, to even greater flexibility, to even greater cost-effectiveness from the taxpayer's point of view, to an organisation whose principles are, from our point of view, citizens' orientation, tax justice and fiscal equality in an enhanced form, economy, personal responsibility and performance orientation. These are principles, ladies and gentlemen, which should apply to financial management in the same way as to the independent financial Senate in the narrower sense. The independent financial Senate will strengthen citizens' rights, which is particularly important in our view, because we will have independent and independent Senate members there because we will achieve a reduction in the duration of completion because, because we have only one authority, there will be a uniform legal opinion because there will be performance transparency and, through seven locations provided for in this law on decision-making, decentralized structures. From our point of view, therefore, this independent financial Senate is a very important reform. It is 290 people and 9 000 people who are affected by it, and of course it has a pillar of financial reform also having an impact on the other elements of our financial organisation. It is clear, for example, that the financial directorates need to experience a significant change in their own right, as well as the financial offices. That means, of course, the independent financial Senate affects the entire ongoing reform process. The financial management will no longer be the second instance. It will hand over a 20 per cent share of its staff to this independent financial Senate, which is now active in the field of legal means. We will try to achieve a re-definition of the financial country directives in the sense of an enhanced service and advisory function for the financial offices. Financial country directors will be more active in the areas of quality assurance, internal revision and the fight against fraud. We will also achieve that we can reduce bureaucracy and administration and thus achieve substantial cost savings for taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mrs Hagenhofer, you have just come to terms with such intense discussion. I therefore mention this and have put this financial reform part at the beginning of my remarks, because you have said you do not know what the Minister of Finance wants and what he can do. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: At the financial offices!]] That is why I would like to ask you for a certain minimum of attention now, because I am just presenting what I want and can and how we are rebuilding the financial management. However, I do not want to say it twice or then repeat the same thing I have already done in response to questions. That is why we can perhaps have a discussion with each other in this material part if I refer to the statements made before. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That means, in concrete terms, the following. Mrs Hagenhofer, you asked: What does the Minister of Finance want? Does he want a weakening of the regions? – I say to you: The exact opposite is the case – Kurt Heindl has also mentioned it – and we will not close a financial office. We won't close a single financial office! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hagenhofer: This is what it was called at the post offices!]] I am the responsible Minister of Finance, I am telling you today what fact is and what fact will be, and you can take me to the floor here. We are talking about strengthening the regions. We are not concerned with the deduction of skilled workers, but rather with: If you have a discussion with a financial board today, then you will insist that this one - I am exaggerating a bit - has nothing to talk about because he cannot make a personal decision or has a budget on which he can decide on his own. We will hand over competences to financial offices by the Federal Ministry of Finance. We will hand over competences to the financial offices by the financial authorities, which is because, for us, the financial office is the institution that has the public contact. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is the financial office, the ladies and gentlemen who work there, our employees are the ones who have the contact of citizens. They are the ones that are supposed to produce the core product of our services. That is the question: How service-oriented are we? How customer-oriented are we? How can we actually address the concerns and problems of the population there? That is why I can tell you: The main focus of our reform is to strengthen the financial offices! [[Abg. Hagenhofer: Then you could have written it in, Minister of State!]] This is about the independent financial Senate and not about the financial offices. But both Kurt Heindl and you have raised the question: What does the Minister of Finance want in the financial reform? – That is why I wanted to present here briefly and explain what we want to do in the broader sense of the financial reform. I'm telling you, too. Today we have 80 financial offices; these financial offices will allow each individual to exist organisationally, but in formal competence we will create 43 economic areas in Austria. We are currently running a pilot experiment in two economic areas: on the one hand in the Mühlviertel with original driving, Freistadt and Rohrbach and on the other hand in Burgenland with Eisenstadt, Oberwart and Bruck. There are three financial offices affected each with a total of 260 employees, and there we are practically carrying out a pilot project of the financial office of the future: What will it look like in the future? What perspectives and visions we have, we are now trying to present in this pilot experiment, with the following objectives: We make the hierarchies flatter, we take hierarchies out of the organization. We are restructuring from working part-time to working opportunities in greater team orientation of our employees. We build information centers for citizens' contacts so that the concept of service to the population is more prominent. We strengthen the risk analysis, we strengthen the diversity of audits and we give management skills – as I have already said – to the financial offices and to the economic areas. We are in a good discussion process with staff management and employees. This is not a reform – I can assure you – in which we, from the Ministry of Finance, would decree from the top to the bottom, but this is done within the framework of a transparent process. That is, we have tried to shape this reform process from below, to involve the staff representation, to involve the employees and to achieve that they identify with this process. Just as a company would be reformed, so we also try to reform our entire financial organisation and thus allow employees to participate in this development, convince them, achieve identification, and thus receive a support from employees in this reform project. If we see that these two pilot projects work from the point of view of the population and from the point of view of the region, we will carry out a comprehensive implementation of this project throughout Austria in 2003. On the one hand, we will achieve a significant impact on the reform with this independent financial Senate, and at the same time we will move forward several other reform projects: We will move forward with the electronic tax declaration, we will push forward the reform of the VAT and we will move forward with the merger of the examination of pay-related taxes. We will also, we have discussed this here, carry out greater control of illegal foreign employment, and we will also carry out the task of a customs reform in this whole of the Connex. Finally, I should like to focus briefly on reform in the narrower sense. What do these independent financial Senates bring us? We know that today the two-in-a-kind judicial procedure for the tax law to be implemented by the federal government and the financial criminal law is being adopted by the seven financial country directors and that the decision is taken in Senates and individual officials bound by instructions. With this reform, we want to create nothing but an independent financial Senate, an independent administrative authority for the whole of the two-seconds legal proceedings, i.e. an independent financial Senate with jurisdiction for appeals in matters of taxation, for complaints in customs matters and for appeals in financial proceedings. We want to strengthen citizens' rights, and we want to achieve an approximation of the standards of legal protection to those of the independent Bundesasylsenate and the independent management Senate of the countries. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Key key points and also progress in this reform compared to the status quo are that we will no longer have mixed use in specialist and legal media agendas, as is the case today. In this reform, we have provided for rules on service and remuneration which ensure the independence of employees. We achieve greater alignment of the legal protection standards with the principles of civil rights. 6 para. 1 of the Convention on Human Rights. We fulfil the criteria of a court within the meaning of the EC Treaty or the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, according to which each person has the right to have their case negotiated publicly and within a reasonable period of time by an independent, impartial court established by law. We relieve this reform – it has already been addressed – of the Administrative Court and the Constitutional Court. Of course, we take into account the principles of economy, economy and effectiveness. We do not build any restrictions on access to the public – for example, a fee obligation or a cost-refund scheme – as is the case with courts, because we have said: As open as possible, free access should be guaranteed to the public. We maintain typical legal instruments for the administrative procedure. In total, we create a flexible government organisation, flexible processes and an efficient, effective organisation of independent financial Senates. We achieve organisationally the integration of the entire two-in-a-kind legal system of financial and customs administration. I would now like to address one point, namely Article VII Z 1, which you mentioned, and the separate vote you have referred to. I say quite frankly to you that on your side there must obviously be some mistake in the interpretation of this Article VII Z 1, because it does not give the Minister of Finance the authority to do and to allow it to do organizationally in Austria, but it concerns exactly a financial office throughout Austria, namely the Financial Office for Fees in Vienna. For no other financial office, this Article VII Z 1 shall apply! We are here in agreement with the Vienna organization – with President Frey of the Finanzlandesdirektion Wien, Niederösterreich and Burgenland – to bring together the evaluation bodies, which are now divided into several financial offices in Vienna and cannot carry out the evaluation efficiently, because there is this fragmentation in a financial office. This financial office is the financial office for fees. Everything else is not affected. I just wanted to clarify this so that you don't have the impression that this is an authorisation for the Minister of Finance, on the basis of which he can do and leave whatever he wants. This is not the case, but it applies to a financial office, the financial office for fees, and it serves to bring together the assessment bodies efficiently, exclusively in Vienna. Nothing else is the intention of this section. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up, this is a truly successful reform from my point of view. We have taken up a long-standing need for action. I would like to thank all the political groups for the possibility of reaching consensus on a reform which is not a public issue, but which has direct and practical impact on the population, on every individual citizen in our country, as in the case of financial market supervision, even with this independent financial Senate. As far as the flexibilisation clause is concerned, Mr Edlinger has precisely celebrated this issue in his presentation. I can only say: I would like to thank the fact that the continuation of this "flex clause" will be possible, and I have always said – you have mentioned it – that I am in favour of this clause. It has brought substantial success; You mentioned this as a percentage. It could be saved in the four organisational units in which it has been implemented so far, the absolute amount of money of approximately € 1 million in 2001. We should honor every euro and every cent, so 1 million euros are also an important point. Mr Edlinger, you have spoken on this compromise, which we are reaching today, and on the process of making opinions. They themselves know best how such a process of opinion formation works, so I don't need to add it from my point of view. You have smiled at this, because, of course, you knew in the back of the head exactly what actually happened within the three or four political groups. Now, of course, your mimik is a little ardent to surprise, but I think we all know what we're talking about. [[Abg. Edlinger: Amazing!]] I'm glad there's this "flexi clause" going on. I hope that the compromise will also be designed to encourage more organisational units than before to benefit from the "flex clause", because it is clear that it will lead to improvements in performance and budget savings. Ladies and gentlemen! That's why I think we can be happy. Citizens' rights will be strengthened. This is an essential pillar in the reform of financial management. We come to more performance orientation and greater flexibility as well as savings for taxpayers. I hope that the proposed strengthening of the Minister of Finance will not only, as before, be perceived by the government groups, but also, after the premiere, now and in succession, by the opposition. I'm always looking forward to it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21035	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21056	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the backgrounds have been illuminated. We know how these decision-making processes have actually taken place or become comprehensible. The fact is that it is a good compromise. I have already said in my last speech that I am assuming that we will still find ourselves in this regard. I am very glad that this independent financial Senate will be created because it actually brings about an approximation of legal protection and because this will make independence an important part of the future legal system. That is why, I believe, we can all be glad that this procedure has been chosen. As far as the flexibilisation clause is concerned, I assume that there will be many sites in the future that will benefit them. I also assume that this will actually be used as an alternative to breakdowns, which I consider very important. It has really come to an advantage for the citizen. He sees himself in a new, better situation, since now the small influence, I would like to say that the person who has passed over the sovereignty of the staff has fallen away by independence. That seems to me to be particularly important. Since appeal proceedings are in principle public, it can also be assumed that appropriate case law will take place. There are now two authorities for the benefit of citizens, and I believe that the most important thing – the Federal Minister of Finance has already done so – is that there are no restrictions on access and therefore no charges apply, even if a negative decision is taken. I think that's actually a good step. I would like to address a statement by the Federal Minister for Finance, namely the fact that the financial offices are actually service stations and should remain in the future. When reforms are announced, it is always the fear that they can also go in the direction of closures. Of course, such fears are also present here, although the situation has now been presented differently by the Federal Minister for Finance or in such a way that the concerns can be resolved. However, I also believe that it is necessary to achieve appropriate efficiency gains through summary, through the use of skills available in an authority. However, it is important for us in the rural area to know that there will actually be no closures of financial offices – therefore also the behaviour in voting, so to speak, as a clear commitment to the regions. In this sense, I am glad that we have reached this agreement both on the flexibilisation clause and on the independent financial Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21104	The next speaker is Mr Müller. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21126	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister for Finance! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The current blue-black government presented a balanced government budget in 2001. This very important fact for the Austrian economy is due, not least, to the consistent and meaningful austerity policy of the government, especially our Minister of Finance. The kind of savings that I am dealing with today is the savings in the administrative burden due to efficient and modern budget management. ==References====External links== In December 2003, it was scheduled for the future, for the first time until 31 December 2003. December 2006, to be a control instrument in the interest of economical handling of taxpayers' money. The aim of this flexibilisation clause is to give services greater flexibility and responsibility in resource management, thereby contributing to better use of resources. In the Federal Ministries for Justice, agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management, there has been an experimental phase in recent years. There were pilot projects in the judicial institution of St. Pölten and in Vienna-Erdberg as well as in the Federal Office for Water Management and the Federal Institute for Mining Questions. In these services, both in 2000 and in 2001 the balance between revenue and expenditure laid down in the Regulation was improved and the annual positive difference was increased. If there is such an improvement in the balance, i.e. a savings in relation to the budget, a part of it may be added in favour of the unit of organization. This reserve shall be used in part for performance premiums or training measures. In particular, the flexibility clause has led to an intensification of commercial thinking and cost-benefit thinking among users on a broad scale, as well as an increase in the awareness of responsibility. With the expiry of the flexibilisation clause, the continuation of existing projects would no longer have been possible and the application would have been excluded by further organisational units. The Committee on Budgets has already held its meeting on 8 June. This issue was discussed in November 2001 and was discussed at the last meeting on 14 November 2001. On 1 May 2002, the Government's proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables was adopted by the Council on 27 May 2002 and the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 on the common organization of the market in fruit and vegetables. ==References== However, this flexibilisation clause also contains constitutional provisions and therefore the abolition of the time-limit here in Parliament requires a two-thirds majority. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to ask you to give this government template the required two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21172	The next speaker is Mr Edler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21202	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to mention once again that the SPÖ will agree to the legislative proposals at third reading. At the second reading, we will show a selective behavior. The critical remarks have already been made by my colleagues, particularly Mr Hagenhofer. Ladies and gentlemen! The term "junktim" has been used here in particular by representatives of the government parties – I would like to mention, in particular, colleagues boldly. To this end, I would like to say: We have not "disappeared" anything and we have not dealt with anything – Mr Edlinger has said it quite clearly and clearly – but we agree with Austria, ladies and gentlemen, because we have a certain challenge there! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to refer briefly to the flexibility of the budgetary law. The savings values between 3 percent and 10 percent have already been reported here. But I believe that this regulation was particularly important for those colleagues who have tried in various ministries to counter a certain current, namely that everything that does not work in the federal and public services is equally outsourced and too privatized. I believe that this means that colleagues in the public service have a great opportunity to counter exclusion. In the last few weeks and months, the President of the Court of Auditors has been particularly concerned about this issue and has pointed out that the Federal Government did not have a particularly good hand in all outsourcings or disbursements, which confirms the need to make new considerations here. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank all the officials who have tried in connection with the flexibilisation regime very much, and at the same time I would ask them to be active in the future, and wish them very much luck to do so! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21246	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we are voting on the draft law on tax and remedies reform law in 1128 of the Supplements. To this end, there is a request for a separate vote made by the honourable Member, Mr Gradwelt, and others. First of all, I will vote on the part of the vote concerned by the request for a separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule VII Z1 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him their approval to give a positive sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gradwelt, colleagues and colleagues on the security of the Austrian financial offices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Buh-Rufe at the SPÖ towards the Free and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Are you sure?]] We shall also vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 1129 of the Supplements. As the present draft concerning a federal law amending the Federal Budget Act contains constitutional provisions, I first of all adopt the presence of the constitutional number of Members. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. Finally, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the 2002 Federal Finance Act, including the title and receipt in 1130 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. 12. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (1002 of the Supplements): The Federal Act establishing a Federal Act on the Independent Financial Senate and amending the BAO, the Customs Act implementing the Enforcement Act, the 1989 Procurement Act, the Introductory Act on the Administrative Procedures Law 1991, the Financial Criminal Law, the Tax Administration Organisation Act and the Federal Financial Act 2002 (Abgabe-Legal-Reform Act, AbgRmRefG) (1074 of the Supplements) (third reading)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21309	We're coming to the 12th. Agenda item. As the third reading vote on this draft law in 101. We shall now come to the third reading on those parts which were adopted at second reading by the constitutional majority. This concerns all those provisions which do not require the majority of two-thirds of the Members. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, give their approval to this draft law, to a sign on this matter. – This is rejected. The agenda is exhausted. Request for the establishment of a Committee of Inquiry
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21344	We are now negotiating the request made by Dr Cap, colleagues and colleagues to set up an investigation committee on the clarification of the accusations relating to cash flows and manipulations of the award procedure in the course of the award of the delivery order on radar installations to the Austrian Federal Army in 1994 and 1995, informing of a possible influence by the then Minister of Economic Affairs and German Chancellor Dr Wolfgang Schüsslauf on the award of grants to Thomson, informing the accusation of the acceptance of commission payments by persons involved in the award, informing whether, in connection with this matter, in particular with possible commission payments or manipulations of the decision-makers in the award procedure, it has come to disadvantages for Austrian taxpayers, examination of the legal and political responsibilities relating to these facts. As this request has now been distributed to all Members, reading by the author does not need to be done. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21488	We are going into the debate. In the sense of § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is the speaking time in the debate for 5 minutes, for the first speaker for 10 minutes. The opinions of the members of the Federal Government should not last more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). – I correct, this has been changed: President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21518	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] We are today submitting a request for the setting up of an investigation committee because there has been suspicion of manipulation in the procurement process for years and, subsequently, commission payments in connection with the procurement of radar systems by Thomson. [[Abg. Young: What government was that then?]] This is a suspicion that exists, ladies and gentlemen. One thing is clear in this context: that the SPÖ was offered 20 million schilling to support the award to Thomson. It is self-evident that SPÖ rejected this immediately and sent a statement of the case to the public prosecutor. This was a plumper bribery attempt, and this bribery attempt resulted from the knowledge of Thomson that she is chanceless in awarding these radar systems. The company Thomson was right when she considered her offer to be an opportunityless one, because, according to the military tender criteria, she should have been eliminated. But you, Mr President Fassleven, then Minister of Defense, did not leave Thomson. The fact that Thomson failed to meet the military criteria is obvious: Two out of four must criteria for the system offered were not fulfilled. Thomson thus came to the assessment, but was only ranked third in four bidders. Thomson was able to offer compensation transactions, but even after this criterion Thomson was third only. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] This ride was not questioned for months. Suddenly – what a coincidence! – in the summer months, in August 1994, a strange movement came into this whole matter. The company Thomson intervened with then Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Schüssel and subsequently increased the compensation offer. [[Abg. Edlinger: Listen! Listen!]] After the intervention of the responsible Minister of Economic Affairs Dr. Schüssel, Thomson suddenly received the award. [[Abg. Edlinger: Scandal!]] [[Oho-Rufe at SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We know today, and this is a fact that there is a note in the calendar of the involved weapons lobbyist writer at that time, which reads: Cuisine, ÖVP – o.k. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What do you mean, "Schüssel, ÖVP – o.k." In the calendar of a gun lobbyist who came to the train here? [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I know it's an unpleasant topic for you, but it's in need of information. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Really not!]] Ladies and gentlemen! A democratically elected Parliament also has the task of asking for information and bringing light into this dark history. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr. Khol! Maybe you can answer that: What was actually agreed between the gun lobbyist writer and then Minister Dr. Schüssel? Mr. Khol! Mrs Fekter! Was there any commission payments to the ÖVP in this context? [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Only to Vranitzky!]] Was there any influence by the then Minister Dr. Schüssel on the award of contracts to the company Thomson? Or, Mr. Khol, how can it be assessed that Dr. Schüssel, a German chancellor, is invited as a witness in a court trial with which a gun lobbyist demands 10 million schilling for an appointment at Dr. Schüssel? These are questions about questions you don't come around. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Why did you actually agree to silence on the compensation transactions of Thomson, who were really dubiously improved? I already know that there is a silence strategy on the part of the ÖVP and the Federal Chancellor, which I believe is fatal. By silence, these burning questions, which ask many, including taxpayers, who are asked for the cash register, remain unanswered. But people have a right to this slender look – if there is nothing behind it, how They claim that too – will be removed. It is about a volume of 1.3 billion schilling a business that has come about in a very dubious way. In fact, it is completely incomprehensible to me that Chancellor Dr. Schüssel does not, of his own interest, provide information to eliminate the massive accusations that exist. You can do this, and we will also invite you to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Khol, otherwise you are the serenity in person, but now you are very shaky and nervous in the first row and are trying, so to speak, to support the silence of the Chancellor by smiling. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Khol, as well as representatives of the Freeman and the ÖVP.]] Mr. Khol! The SPÖ offers you a fair forum where we can discuss all these questions – and if there is nothing behind them – and a committee of inquiry, in which it is clear that nothing can happen without the consent of ÖVP and FPÖ, a committee of inquiry, in which ÖVP and FPÖ have the majority. So a fair forum! As a parliamentarian, fulfil your task of agreeing to it and providing for information. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not a question of pre-conception, it is a question of reconnaissance, it is also about regulations for the future. For the future, we are concerned that there are transparent rules. [[Calls.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] There are, of course, many and good arguments against the purchase of interception hunters, but also in this context you should be interested in the clear, transparent rules in the procurement regulations. I'll invite you to take this along again. For this committee of inquiry, there are not only opposition votes – they are always trying to put it down – but the need and sensibleness of such a committee of inquiry are seen by large parts of the population. For many, the questions I have formulated, but also some others. There are even votes from the government parties who say that an investigation committee is essential because dubious business has run and is supposed to come to light on this matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There seems to be a small plant of the FPÖ's cover ideas and ideas. To prove that it is not just the opposition that demands clarification, I read from a broadcast by the Carinthian Party chairman of the Freeman – I quote –: Wolfgang Schüssel is supposed to set up a committee of inquiry. It's a clear "smart money" writer. - Quote. According to Strutz, FPÖ – and therefore we will also give all FPÖlers the opportunity to confess in a natural vote – there has been a need for information. According to Strutz, there are written documents and statements sufficient to justify an investigation committee. These are voices from the FPÖ. Mr. Westenthaler, your colleague, Mr. Strutz, also writes that this request for an investigation committee in the Causa Schüssel was agreed with Parliament club head Peter Westenthaler. Be man enough and vote To this committee of inquiry! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think that the time of the musselling has passed and the time of confession has come when, if you have said something and you have agreed to do so, you have to do so. I miss this with you, but maybe you can get a back today. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! With our request and this truly fair offer, for clarification in this dubious matter, the controversial and dubious procedures to ensure the award to Thomson company, I invite you to take part. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If you have nothing to hide, you agree to this investigation committee!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21730	The speaking time of all the other Members involved in the debate is 5 minutes. Mr Magnificent came to speak. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21754	Mr President. High house! The painful affair about the acquisition of this radar system is well known. Until recently, this new reference was not known in the calendar of a well-known arms dealer, who is here, on 6 June. August: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Will this be new?]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] Cuisine, ÖVP – o.k. Ericsson 200 percent, Thomson 270 percent. [[Abg. Kiss: That's where I can remember 1996!]] – In fact, three weeks later the company Thomson introduces the new compensation offer. [[Abg. Young: Since when is this known?]] And then there is also an interesting answer to the question of our Dr. Cap to Minister Bartenstein, who says in his reply – I quote –: "The Minister of Economic Affairs" – Schüssel – "the responsible head of the department (BMwA), Josef Maria Merk – that was the Thomson-Switzerland chief – "and Raphael Eskinazi, Vice President of Thomson International, participated." - Quote. Do you know what they did? Bowl has made up with the later contractor when they will talk to the other providers. Is that usual? [[Abg. Amon: Who said that?]] Bartenstein, colleague, Bartenstein himself said that. Suddenly, the Minister of Economic Affairs and the Minister of Defense of the time, Fassleven Thomson, was assigned to do so. In the meantime, the SPÖ has been offered 20 million schilling and has shown it. [[Call the ÖVP: Who?]] – The Public Prosecutor's Office, Mr. Collegue. I assume that the ÖVP has not received an offer. I don't assume that the ÖVP has adopted something at all. However, it becomes exciting to look at the annual accounts of the ÖVP published in the Vienna newspaper, the years 1994 and 1995. In the 1994 election, 77 million Schilling were spent on public relations. In his policy-financing manual, Dr. Sickinger says that ÖVP has spent at least 100 million schilling. In 1995, another election year: According to the ÖVP report, 39 million Schilling were spent on public work. Sickinger thinks the ÖVP has spent at least 80 million schilling. This is a difference of 62 million schilling, which is in need of information, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, according to its own accounts reports, the ÖVP repays over 40 million schilling in credit in these years, it does not borrow loans, it repays loans. Ladies and gentlemen! Either the accounts published by the ÖVP do not vote, or there is money that has not been disclosed. This would justify the establishment of a committee of inquiry. I believe that everyone who is interested in the fact that our Federal Chancellor is not left with the spark of suspicion should actually vote in favour of this request for the establishment of an investigation committee. [[Abg. Großruck: "Our" Federal Chancellor he said!]] For this, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21878	The next speaker is Mr Zernatto. Also speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e21912	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! You will not be surprised that the EIA will not agree to this request, but since, as I have heard, it is also a nameable vote, I will tell you a secret: I too will vote against this request, and I will now explain it to you. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But does the bowl help?]] I say quite openly: One could react very emotionally to the two previous words and speak of lubrication comedy or similar. That is not what I want, ladies and gentlemen, because the issue is too serious for me. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] However, I would like to put some facts on the table in this context. They call for the establishment of a committee of inquiry to examine matters which have long been precipitously, precisely and precisely reviewed by the Court of Auditors. Mrs Bures! It is precisely those statements that you have made here that this Court of Auditors report clearly disproves. Even in the summary, which is relatively easy to read for everyone, it is clear that the verified procurement cases have not given evidence of illegal payments. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Such a nonsense!]] It also stands inside – and I must draw your attention to a small inaccuracy in your argumentation – that the counter-business offers presented by the bidders have been taken into account, but this has not changed the order of the offers made from a military point of view. You claimed the opposite here. This is simply an untruth which is poorly suited to justify the establishment of an investigation committee. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In your arguments, you have repeatedly mentioned Mr Schreiber, a person whose credibility has not even been taken seriously by the Bundestag Committee to deal with these issues. What really happened and what you have to thank Chancellor Dr. Schüssel – also in his then role as Minister of Economic Affairs – is the act that has succeeded in reaching 270 percent of compensations for this business, something that has never been done before in this Republic. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All of this is known to you. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Which counter-businesses are known to you?]] Nevertheless, with this request, you are ultimately also trying to question the personal integrity of the Federal Chancellor. If in the case of matters policy, it is obvious that the arguments are based on the fact that in this discussion one draws more and more often the shorter one, if one even has to be informed by one's own former party president, that this government is actually doing its work quite well, then one is taking on other possibilities of political warfare, and I consciously point it out so. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: It is Parliament's control rights, not war management!]] You take the weapon of personal evaporation. [[Call the SPÖ: Mr President!]] I know that this weapon can be quite successful, on condition that something is already going to hang. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Distraction maneuver!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I'm telling you: This weapon is not only directed against those against whom it is drawn. [[Abg. Olympians: Tell Mr. Khol!]] This weapon is very often directed against politics as a whole and therefore against those they have drawn. In this way, political starryness is produced, which we regret and complain again. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, we will not deliver this platform to you, which is why we will clearly reject this request today.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22050	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. Speaking time: 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday I followed Mr Cap's statement in the "ZiB" of lunch, and I thought very briefly that in the last few days and weeks I must have overlooked something that must have happened to me without a trace – I probably didn't take good care of it, I didn't read it well, I didn't see it well – because he wanted to set up a committee of inquiry and investigate things that are incredible. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Strutz!]] After a horrendous second, I then felt that he wanted to investigate things that he thought had happened, but in 1994 and 1995. And then I think: 1994, 1995 – I think of the SPÖ as a strong government party with the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who was Minister of Economic Affairs?]] I can remember, and I have now also asked myself and assured myself – the FPÖ in opposition, the Greens also –: Something there? Were we asking questions, did we ask the then ruling Social Democrats? Is there anything we should know? Is there something wrong with this procurement? – By the way: It's all about radar stories, airspace surveillance, interception hunters and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is Strutz right?]] Commitment, neutrality. – At that time all the Social Democrats, Vranitzky, have said Cap was already there, Gusenbauer also, but not so far ahead, colleague Schieder with a little more political weight, that there is nothing to investigate, everything is fine. Now I'm wondering, What was it like when it was current when there were some debates? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: At that time the writers' notes were not known!]] [[Further calls.]] There are some who may be able to give even better information, I hope you have questioned them all, even witnesses are here. Yes, please, ask the witnesses and answer us the questions of the time. Why, then, when what you are saying was still fresh, did you not have the eight-year-old smell of deposit, why did you not find anything to be examined at the time, Mr. Parnigoni. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why do you say what you say now?]] Mrs Bures, you weren't so far ahead at the time, you probably didn't get that, and now, late, you're getting on to it that you still have a question that hasn't been answered yet? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Strutz too!]] I mean, in total, there is nothing to investigate, no more than another completely unnecessary committee of inquiry running in a southern federal state. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Strutz has agreed with Westenthaler!]] And you should also think about it: Where there's nothing to investigate, you're supposed to let your fingers out of it! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer! If eight years later it comes out that what you said was wrong today, then I wonder why you said it was right at the time, and today says it's not true. Start looking in your ranks, asking and researching, and if you have facts, we will talk further. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Writers' testimony!]] At the moment, there are no facts and nothing to investigate.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22243	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Same speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please. [[Calls and appeals between representatives of SPÖ and the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I call Mr Kogler. Let me now put the clock back to zero and ask you, honourable Member, to begin.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22282	Thank you very much, Mr President. That is why Mr Schweitzer is still not calming down. With him I almost have the impression that the excitement is real. At the ÖVP I have a very strong impression, the excitement is artificial. Also a way of overplaying an unpleasant topic! But I give you a good advice: Overstepping You don't have this instrument! That was so striking. Often speaking of the dignity of the house, but today I think it was a trace too much. You could react differently, even if this thing is unpleasant to you. They could turn to the facts, as Mr Zernatto has tried to make clear. However, he has managed to quote the Court of Auditors' report, but it has already been wrong from the very beginning. So I'm allowed to go into it. Of course, the Court of Auditors' report has not concerned itself with lubricating payments. He can't do that either, and this was written in the same way on page 1, because not even we here or the Court of Auditors assume that the ÖVP party friends are so overnight that they take party donations illegally, create a booking work that registers, 30 million, a little more than the SPÖ, and then place it in the accounting. And if the Court of Auditors came on the basis of a special audit, perhaps it would also be said: Please, dear Court of Auditors, here is the document! That is why the Court of Auditors has found on the first hand that: We cannot examine this at all, but what we were able to examine – namely the Court of Auditors – was tragic enough. That was tragic enough! The facts were requested. [[Call for the call.]] - Then listen a little bit. We're not the investigation committee yet, that's certainly right, but we have to evaluate it here. On the grounds of the na tional vote, Mr Khol: Members already know that they have to vote with "no". [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls from representatives of the ÖVP.]] When we come back to the facts and to the Court of Auditors report, Mr Zernatto: It provides two main arguments: The tender criteria were not met, and Thomson was not even the best bidder. And this in the greatest order of this kind in the history of the Republic to this day, apart from the miserable interception hunters who threaten to be killed. And you're making fun of that as a joke in a lappalia corner? – I think this is a bad defence strategy that you are showing here. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It is not true that I personally mean – because I am looking at colleagues at Fassleven just by chance in the first row, which I really appreciate in many ways – that all all the accusations that are built on accusations of writers or otherwise must vote so. That's not supposed to be the case. However, there are some indications, starting from the Court of Auditors' statements to the end, what Mr Schreiber – you can think about him at first, what you want; let's look at his notebook and his calendar – has written in his calendar. This is very important, because the former Chancellor of the Republic of Germany and, ultimately, Mr. Schäuble have been stumbled over this calendar alone. And now it's very crucial: Only a few things need to be put on top of each other, very few. Also with a short mind you will now manage to follow me: According to all these criteria, Thomson did not have anything to do with it. And the entries in the calendar of the Lord Schreiber were just in those days – not months, years, colleague Schweitzer! – when the ranking was completely put on the head in those days! "Cush for Wisheu" – that's the fact. Two days before that! You can't do that without further discussion, and that should also be illuminated. It should be asked exactly that way. And if you're already addressing the counter-businesses, They were once again a lever to wrap the whole thing. military hasn't gone much more. Mr Fassleven! You can confirm that calmly. The counter-businesses had to hold back. Not 100, not 150 – already unfulfilled anyway – no, 270 percent of us will attribute Thomson. And everyone played along, even the Ministry of Economics. Mr Kramer of the Economic Research Institute was required to deliver some kind of opinion within two days. He then refused in the statement anyway essentially, but everything had to happen within two days. And there's nothing coming for you? Schweitzer has already come to mind at the time, only today he no longer remembers it. Today, he somehow escapes it – from memory gaps. This alone warrants us to highlight the issues raised here in an investigation committee. You can't discuss that away. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I'll give you some advice. Give the way for this investigation! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: reaction time eight years!]] Just because you see a name-named vote coming on yourself, you have the chance to confess color, colleague...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22344	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22360	This would once again be an opportunity to finally speak plain text and confess color. The FPÖ has already taken you away for a long time.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22390	I ask colleagues Schweitzer and Mrs Bauer to be prepared as a writer for the reading. No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall come to the vote on the request made by Mr Cap, colleagues, to set up an investigation committee. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of The desire is supported enough. That is why we are doing so. The ballots that you will use are in the shop, bear the name of the MP and the name "Yes" – these are grey polls – or "no" – these are the pink ones. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those Members who want to vote in favour of Dr. Cap's request for the setting up of a committee of inquiry to vote in favour of 'yes' and those who want to vote against using 'no' vote. I now ask colleagues Mag. Schweitzer to start with the name call; Mr. Sophie Bauer will replace him later. Please, Mr. Writer.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22460	Can I explain the vote as finished? – That is obviously the case. The vote will end. I now ask the House staff to carry out the polling of votes under the supervision of the Correspondents. The session will be suspended for the necessary time.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22496	I'll start the interrupted session again. I would ask you to take up the seats and let you announce the results of the vote as follows: 167 votes were cast. Of these, 72 were "Yes" votes and 95 were "No" votes. This means that the request for the establishment of an investigation committee was rejected by majority. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] The names of the Members shall be included in the Stoneographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. The Members voted with 'Yes': Antoni; Bauer Hannes, Bauer Sophie, Binder, Brosz, Bures; Cap, Csörgits; Dietachmayr, Dobnigg; Eder Kurt, Edler Joseph, Edlinger, One; Faul, fisherman; Gaal, Gartlehner, Gazner, Glavish, Gradual, Gusenbauer, Hagenhofer, Heindl, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Hlavac, Horn, Huber; Jäger, Jarolim; Chapels, dolls, kiermaier, kogler, herbs, cubits, pangs, kuntzl; Lacner, Lapp, Leikam, Lunacek; Maier, Marizzi, Moser, Muttonen; Niederwieser, Nürnberger; Oberhaidinger, oillinger; Perfuss, Parnigoni, Pendl, Petrovic, Pepper, Pirklhuber, Posch, Prehauser, Prammer; Rada, Reheis, Riepl; Shashing, barons, boars, silhavy, sima; For the purposes of this Regulation, Wicker, Wittmann, Worm. With 'No', the Members voted: Agatz, Amon, Auer, Bauer Gerhard, Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Blasisker, Böhacker, Bruckmann, Brugger, Burket; Dolinschek, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert; Egghart, Ellmauer; Valent, Fassleven, Fekter, Feurstein, Fink, Firlinger, Freigaßner, Friend, Frieser; Gahr, Gatterer, Gaugg, Count Herbert L., Grollitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Hartinger, Haubner, Hetzl, Hofmann, Horneger, Hornek, Kampichler, Khol, Kiss, Knerzl, Koßl, Krüger, Kukacka, Kurzmann; cross-country skiing, Lentsch, Lexer, Loos; Mainoni, Miedl, Mikl- Leitner, Mitterlehner, Mühlbachler, Müller, Murauer; Neudeck; Of which: Papházy, Partik-Pablé, Pecher, Povysil, Prince, Pumberger; Rasinger, Reindl; Scheucher, Scheuch, Schoettel-Delacher, Schultes, Schwarzenberger, Schweisgut, Schweitzer, Sevignani, Spindelegger, Stadler, Staffaneller, Steibl, Stummvoll; Tancsits, trettenbrain, drink; Wattaul, Weinmeier, Wenitsch, Westenthaler, Wittauer, Wochensländer, Wolfmayr; Zelot, Zernatto, Zierler, Zweytick. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-05-22-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00103_d7e22684	I can still say that in today's session, the self-employed applications 673/A (E) to 688/A (E) have been submitted and questions 3903/J to 3932/J have been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for tomorrow, Thursday, 23. May 2002, 9 a.m. – A meeting of the main committee will be held at 8.15 a.m. The agenda for tomorrow's meeting is set out in the written communication distributed in the room. The next meeting will begin at Question Time. This meeting is closed.
