ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e3795	Ladies and gentlemen! I will open the meeting of the National Council scheduled for today, 9 a.m. It's the 100. Meeting in this legislative period, and it would be nice if it could take a reasonable course of this anniversary. The Official Protocols of 97. Meeting of 20 and 21. ==References====External links== Meeting of 21 March 1991 On 1 March the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. Deputies Dr. Mitterlehner and Murauer are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e3832	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Minister for Finance Mag. Grasser is represented by Dr. Finz, State Secretary. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e3853	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: University reform First of all, Mr Van der Bellen has spoken. I'll give it to him. I do not need to point out that the founder's speech is 10 minutes because nothing has changed in this practice.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e3886	Mr President. We have put the current hour under the title "Reformed University". [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the run-up, I was reminded by the President of the National Council, but also by politicians of the government parties, that the expression "hunts" may violate the dignity of this House. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where's the oillinger?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Your dignity too!]] That's why you'll allow me to go in shortly after that. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Your appearance is already stashed!]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] If You make the effort – I regret that we do not have a debate on the Rules of Procedure on this subject, but please, even without this formal provocation, I will deal briefly with this point: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the present?]] In the Austrian dictionary is under "hunnzen": disintegrate, corrupt. And in fact... [[Abg. Dr. Khol: language of use!]] No, the Austrian dictionary reads: derb – an expression of deposition or corruption. And, in fact, The good ideas, the good motives we all support, including in this House, regarding the objectives of a university reform have been disfigured by these concrete proposals to a certain extent, so that the university reform must in fact be regarded as corrupt if it is adopted in the same way as in the draft law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where is the man that is displayed?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And in the Duden, Mr Khol, there is in fact something wrong with it: it is a matter of devastation and devastation. - That's exactly what it means. [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Sweitzer show you a photo.]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: (in the direction of Abg. May. Werner, where is he?]] And in case you still have doubts and it is not permissible to focus here on the Austrian dictionary and the Duden, I may tell you that a certain Bernhard Göerg, 25. August 2000, the plans of an architect were rejected because – now literally – they would "hunn" the city view. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: So, where's the oillinger now?]] – Is that the reason why you no longer want Mr Göerg in the People's Party? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another EIA politician, 21. October 2000, said: He would not allow "the great service of his 30,000 employees... to be huddled". – Minister of Interior Strasser. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Dr. Spindelegger, do you see the oillinger?]] And then there's another quote, Mr. Khol, I'll read it to you very briefly: "Pui! Pui over the sloppy castrate century, to no avail, when the acts of ancient times can be chewed back and the heroes of ancient times with comments to hide and hustle and bustle with mourning games." [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Does that quote tell you something? - Friedrich Schiller. And what he is allowed to do around 1800, you may also agree with the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I approve of the alleged basic motive of this university reform not only with full heart, but with a glowing heart.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4088	Mr Van der Bellen, please, not every quote by Goethe and Schiller is allowed in this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4109	One thing I know from Goethe, which I would have liked to use at times, but I did not, Mr President. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ]] I am back to university reform: increasing the quality of research and teaching, strengthening autonomy, accelerating decision-making processes, reducing decision-making, inter alia through the global budget, through a three-year budget, of course under responsibility to the State, that is, to the Republic, on the basis of a so-called service agreement. And what has become of these goals, ladies and gentlemen? - We have a detailed law here. Instead of restricting itself to directives, everything possible will be dealt with in detail instead of leaving it to the university's autonomy. As it is regulated, however, partly contradicts the intentions of the original objective. For example – I can only do this exemplaryly in the 10 minutes –: A research-oriented organization, ladies and gentlemen, needs to be managed decentrally, based on the initiative of the people at the bottom of the base. Decision-making skills must be relocated as far as possible. What does this bill do? - That's the opposite! Decision-making skills are concentrated entirely at the head of the so-called University Council and at the rectorate. And within the university, there must be no decision-making bodies, collegiate bodies, commissions and so on, in particular no so-called partial bodies. [[Deputies Ing. Westenthaler and Mag. Schweitzer: Where is the oillinger?]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Khol – you also like the title "Professor" – I can only say to you: Harvard is not guided by such principles, Stanford not, the MIT not, the University of Chicago. They are not guided by such a principle. In all these universities, which could indeed be our model, at least as far as research output is concerned, there are, of course, units at the lower level, usually called "schools". The Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University, for example, the Schools of Medicine at the most important American universities – units below the rectorate level, which in turn have decision-making skills. Mr. Prinzhorn looks at me so dubiously, but I do not think he would lead a company according to the principles planned, let alone a research-oriented institution like the university. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn.]] And what is the consequence? – We already see the consequence, namely, that each faculty has a strong incentive to break out, to become self-employed; as we have already observed and observed at the medical faculties. This will cause higher costs, higher personnel costs. The administrations must be multiplied, and then it will be called again: The universities cost too much money! But this cost pressure will be generated by the government parties themselves, but then you will say: There you can see again, universities don't know how to manage! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have liked to tell you "at length" how appeal procedures can no longer be carried out under this law, but I fear that my speaking time will not be enough. I would therefore just like to say the following: According to this bill, university autonomy is only an apparent one. The cost risk is transferred entirely to universities and not divided into a partnership agreement between the University and the Republic. – That’s right, Mr. Prinzhorn! They obviously didn't look at the law. The University Council is not influenced or deductible by the University as a whole; even individual members cannot be deposed by the University, no matter what they do, and no matter what the Senate and the rectorate say. The Ministry may, if the member concerned is calcined, unable or malicious, withdraw the member, but does not have to. The University Council, on the other hand, can, if you look closely at the law, determine that – the rectorate, the rector at any time and without giving any reason. – That’s what you call, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, then ‘autonomy’. My words are not a trivial objection, because, Mr. Principal, the University Council unites certain competences of a board of directors and a Supervisory Board, but without having the duties of a Supervisory Board. For example, it is not subject to the same liability arrangements as the Supervisory Board of a company. To create a body whose members cannot be held responsible by the university itself for any misconceptions, I really call it a brilliant idea of university autonomy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn: That's not true!]] All this is true, Mr. Prinzhorn, you just haven't read the law. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You haven't read it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, the following conclusions shall be taken into account: I belong to a generation that has already experienced everything: the old Ordinary Lordship and all university reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4218	Please, let's get to the end of the sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4239	What you are doing here with the partial re-establishment of the old Ordinary Lordship is the worst of all systems in terms of quality, decision-making and transparency. It's a shame you don't also identify with quality.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4270	The Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has given an opinion on the subject. The speaking time should also not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4291	Mr President. High house! I have listened very closely to the statements made by Mr Klubobmann, Professor Van der Bellen. He spent 3 minutes of his speaking time explaining why he used a "derived" expression – between quotation marks – for the topic of the current hour. I therefore assume that you, Professor Van der Bellen, did not think much of the other good points of the draft law. If you look at the law very carefully, you see that it represents a new quality of thinking, a new quality of association: We create slim structures where decision-making and responsibility competence are finally brought together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They claim that autonomy is reduced. I would really recommend you read the law again. According to this law, competences are transferred from the Ministry to the universities, the relationship between state and universities is re-regulated. They claim that the co-determination will not continue in the same form. Yeah, that's right, and that's what we're standing for. We believe that the co-determination that was designed in the 1980s has survived. If a university like Graz describes that it has 232 joint commissions and commissions, I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, what else can this bring? We have a new form of participation, especially for students. We suggest that students speak in terms of the quality of teaching – with a mandatory assessment with consequences. We suggest that they share in the distribution of their study contributions. I also propose that they should be very much involved in the preparation of the study plans and in matters of study. This is the new form of co-determination. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They also claim that the model calculation is missing that the costs will rise, but they completely ignore that we have a proposal for the first time in the history of the disbursements, in which there is no covert but a dynamic budget. All other breakdowns included budgets. Institutions such as museums have had to make use of the same budget for five years. As universities are so important, we have achieved for the first time that the salary increases, the cost of social contributions and the transfer costs are added to the budget. We have a dynamic budget for our universities. We spend 158 000 S per student – the OECD section is 130 000 S. With this money the universities can manage well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you, Professor, compare with the American universities, then you may: They also do not ignore the budget. I don't know any university that gets so much from the state or receives a total budget guarantee for three years. The conditions are quite different there. You said how good it was to form so-called schools. I mean, when they become something more independent, the schools are also called schools. So I don't understand what you're criticising about this. One thing I really want to point out: I would like to point out that we have a bad deal with those concerned and, as you said in your press release, we are dealing authoritarianly with these issues. So far, there has been so much talk with those concerned under no law. However, someone who is invited must decide for himself whether to accept the invitation or not. Refusal to talk is not a culture of the future, and I reject the refusal to talk! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! According to very good experts from Germany and abroad, the new university law will represent a milestone in the history of universities. It will bring more autonomy, more independence with a secure budget, with lean decision-making structures, with a new student participation. What you completely overlook from the opposition is the following: It's a new thought in a new time. We come from a regulatory culture to an agreement culture. We come from shifting responsibility to carry responsibility. These are the new challenges, and I am convinced that our universities will live very well with this new freedom, with this new independence. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, to entrust this to the universities.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4385	We are now going into the debate. In this debate, all speakers have the same speaking time, namely 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4413	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! During the opinion of the Federal Minister, it was asked what presentation she was referring to. [[Abg. Auer: What are you talking about?]] What she has told us here unfortunately has nothing to do with what is contained in the text of the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You have to ask yourself very slowly, Mrs Federal Minister,... [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Could be you didn't understand!]] – Schweitzer takes a position on the subject of "consistency", which is a very pique note. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Could be you didn't understand!]] Mrs. Federal Minister! If we look at the discussion at the universities, you have to ask yourself why there is a negative opinion from the rector's conference, the middle building, the general administration and the students, if this draft – as you claim – is so shiny. There is de facto no body at the university that says yes to your reform. Since there is no one at the universities – and there are, as you say, highly intelligent people working there – who says yes to your reform, you cannot claim from the definition to have created the great new freedom of universities. The critical point is that it is only an apparent freedom, an apparent autonomy, and that you have not dared to release the Austrian universities into an actual autonomy. This, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the main criticisms. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] No company can afford to carry out and implement restructuring against the determined will of all employees. Every change in business, every reform lives by the fact that people are on board and that they are actively involved in the transformation. One of the main tasks of the entire legislative process is therefore to involve those concerned at the universities in this reform work. But this, Mrs Federal Minister, is only possible if it is changed in a massive way. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] A second aspect is co-determination. They always try to make a little ridiculous about democracy and participation in universities by saying: There is always a place where it is no longer necessary. – In the background, however, it is de facto about the complete elimination of co-determination at the Austrian universities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is not a way towards democracy, but it is a reduction in democracy and it is a fallback in university forms that we have long overcome. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] As far as ensuring quality is concerned, there are no calculations and estimates of the cost of this reform presented by you. Several independent institutes that you have commissioned have not submitted any real results to this day. Internal estimates from universities assume that this reform will provide a 20 percent cost increase. There is no statement from the Minister of Finance that he intends to cover this additional 20 percent in the Federal budget. That is to say, there is a danger that the cost increase caused by the reform will go directly at the expense of the quality of teaching and research. I therefore wonder what steps you will take next – access restrictions, restrictions on the subject canon at the universities? The future of our universities cannot be in less quality, but must be in more quality! That is essential, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I therefore believe that this reform work of the Austrian universities will only have the opportunity to be a reform of universities if the High House succeeds in the discussion process of the Subcommittee to introduce the main criticism points of the university members and to put a completely changed reform concept on the table on the basis of these criticism points. What you, Mrs Federal Minister, have done to concessions in the last half of the year was far too little. Your schedule is brief: You don't have a minute to lose, put a new, revised design on the table!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4514	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4535	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think I have to give Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer a lot of assistance. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I'd like to leave! I'm looking for the help myself!]] I'd like to look at his draft that I've been in front of me. This draft is essentially a failure between the proposal of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs and components from proposals made by Federal Minister One and the time before it. It's a missed spatula! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For example, they remember – this is down here – that under the Federal Minister One of the proposals was that there should be ten or eleven university councils, all appointed by the Federal Minister. – Where does university autonomy remain? Mr Gusenbauer, what is the advantage if, according to your recent proposal, only three of the eleven members of the University Council are nominated from the university? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read! Read!]] What better if the federal state, the Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce sends people to the University Council, which is mandatory? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Read, Mrs. Deputies!]] – Here it is, Mr Gusenbauer! It says here: eleven people, of which only three come from the university. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, read it before! Why do you say the untruth? Read it before!]] – Mrs Federal Minister! I'd rather stick to your proposal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Another observation: You said there was nothing but rejection everywhere. – Well, if there is such a comprehensive legislative work with more than 150 paragraphs, then of course there is always something that is criticized by one or another group. Therefore, there is now first of all open planning and second of all the review time. We are still in the review period, it ends on Friday evening. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Tomorrow!]] I am in favour of maintaining a dialogue instead of demonstrating on the street. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] You are a delegate and spokesperson of matter, if you like, not so long in business. I am a contemporary of the UOG in 1993 and have also read the debate on the UOG 1975. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Westenthal]] You should know that then the world's downfall was called out. Rectors have announced their resignation; Professors threatened to lay down the work; the middle construction has said [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Emigrants!]] We're out! – And now the UOG 1993 is the wonderful thing you should not change. The scientific speakers were in a discussion yesterday at the University of Economics. Rektor Badelt said there: What is available here is already an autonomy progress! Of course, we can imagine even more freedom, but even more freedom in the regulation, that is, independence from the ministry, also means more freedom in the uplift of money. – That is exactly what the Federal Minister said. So if you want to have the money of taxpayers who are faithfully managed by the ministry, you must also submit to certain criteria of cooperation. That's what we want. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Klubobmann Gusenbauer, do not paint the devil on the wall, hear what the people say! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer]] The population says 82 percent – thus this point is third in all Austrian reform projects – that universities are to be reformed. More than 90 percent of those directly concerned, the maturants and university graduates, are of this opinion, and they also mention the categories and areas to be improved: Reducing bureaucracy, increased commitment to technology, emphasis education in teaching and research. Ladies and gentlemen! The population is apparently better informed and deals more with the project than you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to say a few words about the statements made by Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen. – Mr Klubobmann, I am disappointed. Professor, you have apparently been out of the way in assessing the presentation in the century. They said: It's the 19th. ==References====External links== – I think of a sentence from Chancellor Kreisky – you know what I mean? –: "Learn history, Lord...!" [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also advise you that for the future, so you wouldn't have to legitimize yourself with the term once used by Schiller. So stay in this century, read international expert opinions. Yesterday, the chairman of the Bavarian rectors' conference in Vienna – but also other international experts give us the right – said: The University of Tomorrow, this is a liberal, a generous, competent proposal coming from the ministry. He also said: This minister enjoys the highest reputation in our country. - I can only join. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] 9.2 9
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4701	The next speaker was Mr Graf. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4722	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! If you look at this present hour on a really important topic and see what has so far been done by the two club members of the opposition, you wonder if they are really interested in the university reform. The one hiding to verbal provocations then loses in any statements that have nothing to do with the university, and does not benefit from the opportunity offered to him. The other one tries to regain his non-existent profile at the expense of the universities, by rather following a photo appointment at 10.30 a.m. on the Uni-rampe and taking part on the action day, instead of here in this House, where the policy to be implemented at the universities is ultimately discussed with us to enter into a discourse. [[Complaints with the liberals]] This is the university policy of the two club members of the opposition, and it reveals itself. I think one thing you both have in common: You simply didn't read the draft, otherwise you wouldn't be able to fry so much nonsense from the speaker's mouth! Lord Van der Bellen, you're saying no partial institutions. - Yes, I'll give you the right. In the future, we will have full-fledged institutions. These will be more than ever. That'll be the difference. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Van der Bellen, you say no liability rules like a Supervisory Board. - Read it! We have determined that the liability provisions of the HGB are fully applicable. What does the Commercial Code say? – You are a university professor – you have no idea. The liability provisions of the HGB also apply to the university councils. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: (keeping a document in height) Where then?]] Read You're going after it! You don't need to point it out, but you should look inside. You'd probably do better. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer believes that the people concerned are not on board, but they must only make reforms if each person concerned is on board. Mr Gusenbauer! In connection with a Gremial and Curious University, where standing representatives simply want to protect their rights – whether justified or not – one may have to do something visionary in the future as a legislator and not leave it to the standing representatives. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Get over it!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! If you've taken this so seriously, I'll tell you: You decided to do this here in the House yourself. UOG 1975, SPÖ sole government: no agreement of a standing representative. – You have made the reform anyway! UOG 1993, the introduction of partial jurisdiction, the first step towards full justice: no agreement of a standing representative. – You have made the reform anyway! You were a government party. Now comes the University Law 2002 – and see here: We have the approval of broad circles of the University. You're always hiding that! The Professors' Conference, the Professors' Associations, all agree. The majority of university lecturers, with the exception of some art universities, are in favour of this reform. In every discussion that I have attended with colleagues Niederwieser or Grünewald – and we are almost daily at a discussion – we learn that it is always about sending rights, namely you. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Now I'm curious!]] You'd prefer mayor Häupl to send everyone. That's clear to me. They also write it in the design: The state governments may send out the university councils. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Niederweiser! Eight universities stand on Vienna soil. What does that mean? – Of course: He's supposed to send mayor Häupl. The Federal Chamber of Labour is expected to send. You'd love to have old states written on. What surprises me very much is that Mr Grünewald has been the chief organizer of all university demonstrations, that the students have for the first time since the universities existed for the old pots, for the pragmatized officials on the street. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Please?! I don't have that much time!]] This is the "revolutionary spirit" of studenthood today. Thank you! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If you consider this to be a rejection of the reform, then you are on the way to the wood. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. It is not about universities, because you have to admit that this reform will improve: Budgetary Highness to the universities, Organisational Highness to the universities, Personal Highness to the universities, Resource Highness to the universities! All that the universities don't have until today, they'll get it now. And they'll be able to deal with it, better than you ever paint or fear black again. You'll see: The universities will be able to live with the new form of organization – despite your fears!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4840	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4862	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I have listened to you and my colleague, you are right: Yes, there is a new quality of thinking! Let's take a look at this quality! It was said: Milestones, epochal laws are written, a century work. – And then with a few months you’ll be more interested in profound discussion. It sets deadlines and time periods that consider a law to be like a wind dog race. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Of course it is! If you want to create a century work, you don't get excited with a few weeks to find consensus to conduct a dialogue. They always say: There is the dialogue, the dialogue has been refused by certain groups. – Think with a quality of thinking, why about 80 percent of those loaded to the platform no longer went: because all their arguments have not been taken into account – with a few but rather ridiculous exceptions! Two others have also gone from there. That's what I was doing. You confuse dialogue with Dictat. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It's right: You've had a lot of discussions. They have hunted a hiking circus of chandeliers through all Austrian universities, but they have not used dialogue there, but have distributed teaching. On questions at the universities, no answers were given by officials of the Ministry because a section chief said: You can't say anything yet, it's all open, it's all free. And then what was? - Nothing was free! Medical universities have been wanted and, as it were, people need to enter this escape reflex because they have been taken away by special provisions et cetera. This is the "new quality of thinking". They have installed a council in which at least two out of five, up to three out of five councils are appointed by the government. That is, of 90 councillors or councillors in Austria, at least 36 are appointed, but a maximum of 54 are appointed by the government. What autonomy is that? – The Council has much more power than the Senate. The Senate is a toothless tiger – "tiger" you can no longer say, the Senate is a plush dog against the Council. It can't be autonomy. This is a distortion of autonomy and a label gap. You install – and there it has Van der Bellen is 100 percent right – old hierarchies, which have long been out of date in modern business structures. They depress 80 percent of employees on an academic basis. You disapprove students by massively cutting their co-determination and cooperation. They say these people are being strengthened, strengthened and all the negative arguments are not correct. – I really wonder: What kind of dialogue is that? You promised 500 professor posts. In a paper from the Federal Government, suddenly 300 million Schilling are talking. That might be just 300 professor posts. Most recently, you meant you could throw a bait with 80 jobs of 2,800 habilitated people, which will then be gratefully bitten. - That can't be good! I'm really warning you – and that's not a stupid saying now: Do not confuse the university reform with the discussion about the main association and the ORF! These are other qualities, that's another society. What amazes me is: What does it have to do with dialogue if you consider any criticism? – All rectors, the entire rector conference, all art universities closed, all collegiate bodies – for a slightly different reason – voted against this reform. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: That's not true!]] The art universities have even said that this is a provocation. Do you think that thinking is only native to the ministry and that all university institutions are made up of "full cases" that cannot be thought?- Oh, my God! – I don’t think so, so there can be no dialogue either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They claim that this law is slim. I say: It's dry and dangerous. I do not refuse the dialogue, but then he must not look like a dictatorship. I really offer talks, and I also believe that in discussions with my colleagues responsible for science, something must be inside with a little good will. You don't lose your face, you win on your face if you give us the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4933	Mrs Gehrer came to speak. Same time of speech. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e4981	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to say very seriously, Mr Greenewald's statements: I can't believe you're saying that I'm "thinking" about criticism. – That’s not true! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's why I requested an order call!]] I also reject that you say that the more than 380 events and discussions we have conducted are a "wander circus". [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's incredible!]] We went seriously with everyone in conversation. I say to you now: ==References== April is the assessor. We will take a serious look at all the proposals. However, a proposal made by the SPÖ, which provides for a total politicalisation in such a way that the main committee of the National Council for university issues, for the priorities, is responsible for the performance agreement, we will not accept such a policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I called Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer yesterday and told him that I was after 19. In April, after the end of the review, an appointment for a debate will be agreed with him. I am also saying this today, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, which I unfortunately did not reach by phone yesterday. I'll invite you after 19. In April, you will have a discussion in which you can make constructive proposals in which you can say what is very important to you. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also advise you to read the newspapers a little more accurately. There are enough pro-voices for university reform of reasonable people who say: The goals are correct, you only need to change something in one or another detail question. The same is true of the opinion of the rectors' conference, which has proposed reasonable further developments. We are in discussion with the rectors' conference and will also take up such reasonable proposals. This also applies to the participation of students. The President of the Action Community said: We want to be of quality, we want to be involved in the use of the study contributions. – I say: Okay, I think that's right, I like that. That's going to be recorded, too. Ladies and gentlemen! One says it goes too fast, the other say it goes too slowly – I suppose the pace is right when these opinions are so divergent – but one thing is clear: The train is heading towards university reform! I ask you to really consider how we can make the most of this university reform, because I am convinced: Our universities are good – they can get even better – the university reform is a milestone for the future of Austria and a springboard for the universities to the world class.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5060	Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol spoke on business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5082	I propose the creation of the protocol to the speech by Mr Groenewald, Professor of the University, who has accused the Minister of criticizing them. I also urge the issue of a call for order. Two university professors have misused the language today.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5120	I'm going to draw up the Stenographical Protocol. On the issue of issuing a call for order, I spoke to the Federal Minister, who was speaking right after Dr. Grünewald. She said for herself what was necessary. I think that's the right thing to do. Mr Dr Niederweiser came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5155	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! ==References====External links== ==References====External links== We will see with what approval for this reform – you claim it – you can then expect at the universities. The fact is that highly regarded professors, together with left-wing students, discuss the emergency measures they need to take against this reform. We fully understand this approach. For decades, the Austrian People's Party's Party and the Freeman's Tribals have resigned from their parties because of this reform. Yesterday, at TU Vienna, a professor showed me a letter to representatives of the ÖVP – you probably already have it – in which it reads: If you make this reform, alienation would be so great that, just as many close to us, I would be forced to work towards the overthrow of this government through active cooperation in the current opposition. – I can only say a wise decision of your members. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] How could it get that far? – I think it is the content and methods used in this reform. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, are talking about autonomy and my dependence. They are talking about world class, but the Federal Government itself has long left the European field of play. On the method: It is unfair – as you did in the "press hour" and today again – to draw a false picture of reality in order to better argue your plans. They spoke of the "Commissions and Commissioners" at the University of Graz, and that is reason why this needs to be changed. The University of Graz is one of the leading reform universities. You know that. There many hundreds of people volunteer and work free of charge to improve their university. Instead of recognizing this work, however, direct these people through television that you think their work is essential. Do you think that's motivating? You don't need to be surprised when, for example, the Department Committee of the University of Innsbruck, largely dominated by the ÖVP, writes: As Minister of Science, Ms Elisabeth Gehrer has clearly failed and is finally retiring. – Your people write this to you, not our or ours misled. It's your people who write it like this! [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... SPÖ Party Book...!]] Further to the method: They announce open planning and invite you to talk. These discussions result in results, for example, in the conclusion that it would be unreasonable to set up own medical universities. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany May. Mainoni]] We all leave with the conviction that this issue has been cut off. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's what it's supposed to be!]] And two weeks later, in your draft this point comes back to the table, the opposite of what was agreed. – These are not even bazaar methods! You can't negotiate like that. This must change fundamentally if you want us to give faith to your announcements like today's regarding participation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You do not participate and 90 percent of your employees at the universities say that you do not value their cooperation. They criticize Parliament and our proposal that Parliament should decide on the basis of higher education policy and that it should also decide in the future, as something that no longer fits into the new era. Is it now threatening to abolish democracy? Where else is the place of decisions in democracy than in Parliament? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] The politicization, Mrs. Federal Minister, is done by your proposal, because the five-member university council appoints the Federal Government two, in the extreme case even three members. These are the trustees directly nominated by the Federal Government in the universities. This has never been the case that the government directly appoints the university board and directly enters the university management of each individual university. To call it "autonomy" is probably a bit extravagant. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To say that we all do not understand how it has directed our colleague Mr Graf – he has to tell us for the time being that we are all too stupid to understand this reform – and you say the same thing, Mrs Bundesminister, that is probably not possible. [[Abg. Böhacker: Your time has expired, your speaking time!]] I just think of one more thing: Haughtiness comes before the case.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5275	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5297	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate is particularly interesting. These are essentially three accusations which make the opposition of the Federal Minister or the government parties. First of all, there is too little time for discussions. . You seem to have presented a law on the way to an initiative proposal here in Parliament without any review, which we should best decide on today. The accusation that we are giving this debate too little time is completely absurd. We have been discussing this university reform for a year and a half! The current draft of the Federal Minister is still under review. The review process – as the name says, the essence of a review is that one looks at such a draft from all sides and makes comments – ends this Friday. That means that it is absurd to raise the accusation here, there is no time and no space to debate it. Ladies and gentlemen! Professor Van der Bellen – I can quote from a press release last week – said: "We will surely have to cover gors with stronger instruments over the next few weeks, if nothing is going on in the government template." Professor Van der Bellen, you know as well as I do that the review procedure I have just referred to ends on this Friday. How is the government template to change during the review process? . You know very well that nothing can change at this time, but you are still threatening more stringent measures. Do you know what that is? – This is to a great extent unscrupulous! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is quite simply not to be seen that there has not been a single proposal for improvement on the part of the opposition throughout the debate. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: such a fool!]] It didn't come from you a single suggestion for improvement. Mr Gusenbauer! Just you have... – I know what that is. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: This is inconceivable!]] They go hand in hand with Dr. Van der Bellen and think that the best friend of the good old days is the bad memory. This is your access! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're dreaming that everything in the university will stay the way it is. My colleague, Mr Brinek, made it very clear to you what discussions there were in the UOG 1993 or the UniStG 1997. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you know what you're talking about? Them miss! You don't even know what you're talking about!]] There have been massive protests, but this is exactly what you are trying to do now. They want it to stay the way it is, and that nothing changes. The second allegation: They criticise that there should be two representatives of taxpayers in the University Council in the future. – It is probably legitimate for taxpayers, if the Republic and taxpayers provide the universities with €2.2 billion, of which €30 billion of schilling, in such a supervisory body, of course, a representation. That is logical, Mr Gusenbauer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Black and Blue Power Access!]] No one can seriously think of making 30 billion schilling, 2.2 billion €, available and then saying: Do whatever you want! Thirdly, there is no dialogue. – To do this, I would like to say once again: It testifies to a bad style, in the phase of a debate, in the stage of negotiations, in the phase of an ongoing review procedure, not only threatens to strike it, but to carry it out already. That's a really bad style! I do not understand that the opposition parties support such a procedure. I cannot understand this because these measures – and you know that very well – are being carried out on the back of the students. It is the students in Austria who suffer from the fact that they cannot take exams that they cannot hear lectures – and that, although they pay for study contributions. The professors and the university assistants have a duty to fulfil their duties; they have a duty to hold the lectures and take the exams. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am not talking to anyone about the right to demonstrate or strike – that is not at all the subject – but about whether we are already using the sharpest weapon in democracy at a time when there is still a discussion. I'd really invite you: Make a constructive contribution to this debate! Let us make proposals so that we can achieve a good university reform for our country as a whole!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5401	The next speaker was Mr Grollitsch. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5422	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It's good that we've been talking about university reform for two years. And it's good that we are devoting a current hour to this topic in the House today. It is less good, however, that the first two words in this debate were "hunzed university reform". The President-in-Office has avoided the full formulation of the Greens on this subject as the title of the current hour. Mr. Van der Bellen! I'm surprised that you're taking on such a concept. Perhaps this has something to do with the violence of the words and the activism of your green club members a few days ago. The violence of words: Maybe you'd like to suggest a little bit of the martial dog theme and connect these words with it. Mr. Klubobmann, just you! What can the dogs do if Mr Van der Bellen wants to call on this subject? I wonder, What can the dogs do for it? [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You have told us crediblely that you have all the reforms of recent years...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5459	Member of the Grollitsch! In order for us to save ourselves a debate on the Rules of Procedure – Mr Van der Bellen would then speak just as Dr. Khol did – I would ask you to make the following statement: The comparison of a name of a Member with an animal – in any form whatsoever – was certainly not intended by you. I want to accept this, and I ask you to make this clear.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5477	Mr President. I take back the name-named combination of these two expressions with the expression of regret, but I would nevertheless like to say that the attempt to bring the power of the word into the debate here was unmistakable – and I am sorry. Professor Van der Bellen! I also follow your statements that you have generally participated in three university reforms. I'll read you a few words: Rectors resign, students demonstrate in front of the university. The constitutional capacity of the new university laws is challenged. – 10. ==References== [[Abg. Dr. Khol: All right!]] Demonstrations in front of Parliament against the new UOG. – 12. October 1993. Thousands of students demonstrate, led by the Greens, against social reduction and against the uniform reform. ==References== January 1992. And so on. We liberals in particular turned against the University of Curia and against over-democraticization in 1975. There we were among those who spoke against it. We also turned in 1993 against the fact that this half-hearted Busek law brings a partial right, a partial autonomy and not the full freedom of universities. The new draft law is aimed at this. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would ask you not to lose sight of this objective even in the formulation of the law. The universities need freedom. They have human freedom, they have budgetary freedom, but they should also have the freedom to organize the studies themselves. However, that part of the law in which I believe the studies are too highly regulated from the law takes the opportunity for universities to profile themselves. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this in connection with the assessments and the consequences. Overall, we stand for the reform of universities and that this liberation will lead to full autonomy. We hope for teamwork at the future university and an erasure of the last remains of this Kurienuniversität. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5521	The next speaker was Mrs Petrovic. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5542	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, on the previous debate. Mr. Dr. Khol, I am very surprised to hear your a little bit dismayed about the word "denomination" because if you trace this word back to the root of the word, then you will see that "nuntiare" means " file an information". Thus, we accuse you of misrepresenting this information in every form. But apparently seem You here only hear and accept messages in German at all, because Latin seems to you to be suspect. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen! In all forms: We reject the debates, the way in which they were carried out in advance, and the resort – sorry, that was again a foreign word – that they had only the intention to malign the properly out minds. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That was quite huddled!]] To you, which you repeatedly respond to the opinion of the people, repeatedly come up with surveys, I ask in every way the question why no one in the reactions we receive criticises our attitude and says, in fact, your criticism is beyond the goal, the reform is in some respects quite useful. – In fact, I did not receive a single letter, not a single e-mail, in which we would not have been encouraged in our criticism. I think you should take this into account. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! To your request for dialogue: You said here and today – I have written this: I invite you, addressed to the green clubman, to a discussion where you can make constructive proposals. – With permission, Mrs Federal Minister, we as the opposition party, if we think it right, will probably still be able to practice criticism. You can't prescribe the opposition what it has to do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you only resort to the opinion of the action community in support of the supposed positive attitude of the students, then I must say that this really only gives me a smile. Obviously, you do not talk to the democratically legitimate representatives of the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They're not coming to date, the legitimized!]] They also said: I am talking to many people who agree with the reform that is reasonable. – What am I supposed to close a counterrio from it? Mr. Dr. Khol, there would be much more reason to be outraged here, but I'll leave it this way and say you don't want to talk. They reject the opposite side, which makes reasonable criticism, per se and in Bausch and Arch Unreasonable. That means you don't intend to go into contention at all. The motto seems to be: We determine the pace of reform, we determine form and content, and you may then be able to retuffle in niches, on the surface a little bit. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Dialogue!]] - Yes, you nod. That's not our attitude. Here we have a contrast, and in that respect we see our attitude and our criticism denoted by these reports in the truest sense of the word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last and one point that is especially dear to me – I am surprised that the ÖVP women are not more involved in the debate here –: Although this proposal for a reform contains a number of rules on equality on paper. Just, I'm asking you all seriously: How can you, against the background of the tuition fees – the train that is already driving without knowing where to go; the funds have to be paid already without any improvement – how can you, in view of the fact that the number of women at universities is already down more in the initial inscriptions than those of men, represent all the serious ones still such sections? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Oh, yeah, a billion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not with the ordinary!]] My question is: Why, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, why, Mrs Federal Minister, do you not even follow what you yourself have decided within the framework of the Federal Government, namely a comprehensive gender mainstreaming, and above all with regard to the effects of the study fees that we reject?
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5672	I declare the current hour of today's sitting to be over. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5693	I refer to the written communication distributed in the meeting room with regard to the negotiating items and their allocation. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5891	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2, 3 and 4 and 7 and 8 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 3243/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5916	It will just be a request from Members of this House. Mr Stoisits and Mr Group, which reads as follows: The Members who have been signed ask for a written reply to question 3379/J by Mr Mag. Stoisits to the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations on the status of the Austrian victims of the Nazi Military Justice. As no urgent request has been made at today's sitting and no urgent request has been made, this debate on the response to the question will be called on at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5943	We are now going into the agenda. In the presidential session, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates as follows: A day block time of 6 "Vienna hours" has been proposed, resulting in the following speaking times: SPÖ 117 minutes, Freedom and ÖVP per 87 minutes, Green 69 minutes. The Hoge Haus has to be on top of that. I therefore ask: Are there any objections to this proposal? - That's not the case. That is to say, it is unanimously decided. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is Mr Ollinger apologised today?]] 1. Point report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (1066 of the Supplements): Federal Law, which amends the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Protection of the Laws, the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the Law on the the the the the the the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Law on the the the the the Law on the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 540/A by Dr Peter Wittmann, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Property Act (1080 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e5990	We come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda, which, as we have just defined, are carried out under one. [[Abg. May. Mr Schweitzer: Mr President! Are there any excuses for today?]] Deputies! I read the excuses at the beginning of the meeting. This has not led to any changes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Mr. Ollinger is not accidentally apologised?]] I do not have a wish for oral reporting. That is why we are going into the debate at once. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Mertel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6046	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The 2002 Service Law Novelle is worth dealing not only with its content but also with its condition, because this convolut that is present today, a patchwork, could be put under the motto: "on the way to Parliament or the wondrous proliferation of legislation". Of the provisions on which we are voting today, only a very small part in the form of a ministerial draft was in consideration in February of this year. One month later, in the Constitutional Committee, we suddenly received a government paper containing important new provisions such as special leave or the exemption of officials, the option for contract staff and, for doctors, a higher remuneration for university assistants and university lecturers. That's not enough. We were suddenly presented with an amendment to new provisions in the Committee which had nothing to do with the original proposal – for example, the so-called family home exemption and the provisions on group rights insurance. Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups! In my opinion, this is a joke! But once again it underlines the authoritarian character of this government coalition. They have the right to comment on the representations of interests and thus a democratic fundamental right ad absurdum. As far as the content is concerned, I would like to state first of all that my group welcomes any regulation which would improve and strengthen the legal protection of services for federal workers. It is therefore also necessary to welcome and assess positively the arrangements you have made with the Public Service Trade Union in respect of special leave which has been granted exemption; that is, special leave for important personal or family reasons or special occasions for a maximum of twelve weeks per year, with the continuation of the remuneration and the legal entitlement of the officials of the Public Service Trade Union to service exemption for more than three months. [[Abg. Ollinger enters the meeting room. Members of the Greens group around him and talk across the bank lines.]] I think that the possibility of reopening the options for contract staff members of the I and II pay schemes, which remain in the old scheme, is also a useful measure. Mr President. For a speaker, this group formation and the constant discussions in the banking series are disturbing. I can see if you don't want to listen to me...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6088	Member of the Commission. Mertel, you're right. I recently asked Mr Kiss to pay attention. Mr. Dr. Van der Bellen! I now ask the Green Group Members in the same way not to listen to the speaker in protest. Mrs. Dr. Mertel, please continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6128	If Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler listens to me, that is enough, it seems, of course. So if I understand correctly, even if I'm talking like against a wall, I'm going to ignore the ballage up there. [[towards the green]] All right! A useful measure also from the point of view of the employees is the reopening of the options for contract staff members of the remuneration scheme I and II, which remained in the old scheme. I also believe that the single payment scheme for survivors of persons who have been killed in foreign operations makes sense. I also think it useful to agree in principle to the increase in the remuneration of university assistants and university lecturers working as doctors and also to increase the training contribution for young people at universities, which I consider to be too low in view of the high requirements of scientific staff in the clinical field. I also consider the extension of the retention clause according to § 113 salary law to be useful for officials of the old salary scheme. This will also allow officials to continue the remuneration for a period of three years in the event of extensive organisational changes. However, it then raises the question of what wide-ranging organisational changes there are actually. What's in your eye? What does that mean? Where is there such a need, and why is the government so keenly interested in regulations that counter organisational changes? The answer is simply: It facilitates the organisational switching and rolling of the Federal Government, facilitates the conversion program and facilitates the removal of misguided officials. I think that the proposed rules in the FPÖ amendment for the completion of group protection insurance and compensation for loss of pain are insufficient. They provide for group law insurance for officials of the Executive Service. They want to take away the economic risk to executives in the event of unjustified criminal accusations, advertisements, official acts and the financial consequences of them. But other professional groups and other staff will take you out; you want to give them a financial risk grant if you have been shown a cash payment. However, it is not to be seen why this proposed legal protection insurance excludes other officials and contract staff who do not belong to the executive – and I think it is positive what you are doing for the executive – because there is also the risk that unjust criminal charges will be reimbursed against them. This is not a trade union legal protection, as the executives imagine it. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! A word on the amendment, which was also tabled by the Freedom Party in the Constitutional Committee, namely the family hospice exemption. This spirited by all the media, and it is basically to be recognized, good thought. But then it will be strange again, as with most of the things that go from the government parties: You yourself expressly point out in your statement of claim that the family home exemption provided for in the Service Law only for federal officials – i.e. for the public service – is aligned with the private sector scheme. – That’s all right, there are two areas to be regulated in agreement. Ladies and gentlemen! However, there is no private sector regulation. That doesn't exist! We have not even discussed this issue here in Parliament. We have not yet talked about it, let alone a law passed. This is another typical case for you of "driving", a typical case for Dr. Khol: "Speed kills," he calls it. [[Abg. Dr. Khol shakes the head.]] – Yes, you said that, it depends on you: Speed kills! With the decision-making only for the public sector, you want to prejudicate through the back door a discussion outcome for the private sector, although there are concerns and content objections to a family hospice. It is not a question of whether there is financial security for the caregivers and how they could look. And there are other important questions: Is professional care at risk of being pushed back? How do you define close relatives? Will prevention be possible by the service provider? Would a time account scheme be appropriate? Are not the terms "family hospice exemption" or "death care" unhappily chosen when thinking about the care of seriously ill children? [[Abg. Steibl: Family hospice exemption is, I believe, a very good word in this context! You can always say something about it!]] – You can call in quietly, Mrs. Folderin! – These questions need to be discussed and clarified in detail here in the House. They should, in particular, refrain from using a novelle of service – over a completely foreign legal situation – to lull these novels into Parliament and thus into the law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These are too important topics that they can stay on the track in the course of another Husch-Fuch-Action.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6256	Government documents are brought into the National Council – and not "smoothed" into Parliament. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mrs Mertel! Did you hear what Mr President said?]] I call Mr Miedl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6295	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We today decide, among other things, the group legal protection insurance for officials of the executive service. Mrs Mertel, you have really missed the fact that, of course, we are in favour of all officials of the public service who are wrongly accused so that they can defend themselves accordingly. – This is obviously missing from you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this context, I would not only like to join Mrs Vice-Chancellor, but also, in particular, with Mr Dr. Mr Strasser and the spokesperson of our group, Mr Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, thank you very much, because what you are trying to do is always a matter of concern to us, so that the other officials can also be represented. Mrs Mertel, I find the following very strange: As the first speaker of the SPÖ, you have spoken about the reform of the service law for a long time and not a word about the incidents of the 13th century. It was lost in April of this year. Not a word! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's embarrassing!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I ask a few questions. Today we discuss the subjective rights of executives. I am now also talking about subjective feelings of executive officials, such as the feeling of an executive official leaving the house at 8 a.m. in the morning, perhaps bringing his children to school or kindergarten and looking forward to a horde of violent people at noon, a horde of people going off with iron rods, paving stones and fences on the police. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Left extreme!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And a green Member who also goes to the police!]] And then the clubman of a group here in the house thinks that these hordes of people who do not intend anything other than to hit each other's heads would be political adventurers! Mr Van der Bellen, I think you have not really seen reality. There's something going on, and you've taken it for exactly that party that's facing the police every day. I expect you today to clarify this question and also to apologize. I am talking about the feeling of the policeman, who has nothing to do with the extremity of the right and left, who is suddenly in the middle and whose task it is to keep both groups apart. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And a green Member too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am talking about the feeling of the police officer whose superior, General Schnabl, is supposed to call a Member - and I then have some questions to ask you, Minister - and exactly to this Members for intervention. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That can't be true!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: The Schnabl? Why does he do that?]] – I’m afraid it’s true, and I expect some clarifications. It is exactly the honourable Member who then attacks the policeman later, and the superior Schnabl calls this Member in advance. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A scandal!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Why is the Schnabl still in office?]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am talking about the feeling of the police officer who, after his dangerous work, must hear from the SPÖ Justice Officer that he has been shaken by the behavior of the police, Mrs Mertel, you have lost no word about it, shaken by those police officers who have resisted, shaken by those police who have protected others, overwhelmed by police officers who have done their job! SPÖ Jarolim's judge is shaken!Unknown term type: "%s".? Yeah, what about? - About the 33 injured police officers? Is that the reason for his shock? – Ladies and gentlemen! I am also shaken by the behaviour of the opposition on this issue! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Van der Bellen! Let's stick to the feelings. The feeling of this policeman is powerlessness, resignation and doubt in the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Is that what you want? – Then tell us what you stand for and who you stand for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Violent Members!]] Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, the police officers have done well to keep the demonstrating groups separate. Mr. Dr. Strasser! I am interested in – and therefore the questions to you – the following: I am an executive officer and a MP myself, but General Schnabl has never called me. Minister! I wonder, Is it in conformity with the service pragmatism and the civil service law that a general – so to speak, the chief chief of the police – in a critical situation – I really learned the great police service – calls someone who is the party? Is this okay from your point of view, or should you not also question the motivation of General Schnabl, who once picks up his daughter from dangerous demonstrations and next time plays a questionable role? Ladies and gentlemen! One could now say that a Member has communicated. That could be said, "mediated." Mr Oellinger, I ask myself: Do you mediate by trying to tear police shields out of your hand? Is that mediation? – That’s what happened! Mr Oellinger! Is it true – I have told eyewitnesses – that you have staged this? It was claimed that you were surrounded by filming colleagues and that then you asked if everything had been recorded. – There are alleged documents on this. Mr Oellinger! I'm horrified at what you did because your plan might have been to free a prisoner. Is it true – my question to you, Mr Minister – that Mr Oillinger was listed in accordance with § 269 of the Criminal Code? [[Abg. Son of a bitch, you know about innocence?]] Mr Oellinger! Their behavior has nothing to do with mediating. For me, it's rather to pour oil into the fire. [[Abg. Swimming: What's the meaning of this "name extension"? A disaster!]] I now have some questions. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you whether it is right that the Event Act provides that you should not prohibit it if there are no grounds for prohibition. Is my interpretation of the Event Law correct that the police must approve an event if there are no grounds for ban? Is the behaviour of General Schnabl really compatible with the Civil Service Law? Has Mr Oellinger, from your point of view, or has he also escalated? From your point of view, what role did SPÖ Justice Spokesman Dr. Jarolim play in this violent demonstration that was later shaken by the conduct of the executive? Minister, I ask you: Are advertisements reimbursed under the Prohibition Act? – There have also been slogans that we do not wish for, ladies and gentlemen! – What ads are there generally against violent demonstrators? Ladies and gentlemen! One word at the end: We reject violence from every side of the ÖVP – whether from left or right. You of the SPÖ and the Greens should consider whether, with your approach and the action of various Members, you are actually contributing to peacekeeping and peacekeeping in that country. You escalate, you provoke and you do nothing good to this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6510	Firstly, I note that the amendment tabled by Mrs Mertel at the end of her speech has been properly signed and is therefore under negotiation. Secondly, I note that in the last presidential term, we have reached agreement on the fact that we do not allow any kind of wordplay by name. This must, of course, apply to all 183 Members and to all names. I ask you to pay attention to this and stick to it! Thirdly, it could be that what has been done to me more often than not, namely if someone asks for a call on the matter, if there is a desire to debate a current topic, and a presentation is taken as an occasion to do so. In all these cases, I have done so as far as possible to be generous and allow debates, because the House simply needs to debate current issues when there is some sort of connection. I think you can see and represent this in this case. I am sure that Mr Prinzhorn will manage the same thing afterwards. This also applies to similar and future cases. Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6567	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The matter that lies before us regulates something that is quite meaningful, namely, a greater level of legal protection. Now we don't just have around 13. April, but again and again a recurring type of conflict. There is much to be done to protect officials who are opposed to the proceedings or who are acquitted. Why does someone add that he or she must stand privately for something that he or she has not committed? Our argument is: Same right for everyone! Everyone should have this right, and if – all too often – on the one hand, as a party of officials of the executive and on the other hand, a citizen or a citizen appears without any official title, then it should not be clear from the outset: Financially, nothing can happen at all, and the other side, if the procedure is somewhat more complex, will certainly be in the rain. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But the executive must move there! She has to move there! That's the difference!]] – I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, from the government parties, why the citizens who do not wear uniforms are quite unworthy of you! Why do citizens remain without uniform protection, and why does this get only one side, namely the executive? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ==References== April: The outrage is much more justified than my previous speaker, Mr Miedl, expressed. Yes, I find a lot on this 13. April to the highest extent outrageous. I find it depressing that violent demonstrators then, if the executive simply fulfils their task, namely to prevent any violent conflict between two political groups, between two manifestations, attack and hurt officials in a daily manner. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oillinger! Oils!]] That's a normal criminal file. This has nothing to do with demonstration right. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] That has nothing to do with demonstration right! This is regulated in the Criminal Code and not in the Party Statute of the Freedom Party. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say the oillinger!]] [[Abg. Achatz: This is indescribable!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This will deal with ordinary Austrian courts – not because there have been calls from the Freedom Party, but because the Republic of Austria is a rule of law. Therefore, violent demonstrators, no matter what they defend and pretend, will be properly prosecuted – for the first time. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And violent Members like Mr Ollinger! In your own ranks is violence! That's the truth!]] [[Further calls to the liberals and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6754	Now I'm briefly interrupting the session because I don't want us to run a risk of escalating 15 speakers. Now we can probably still talk to each other in a reasonable way. I'm asking the four clubmen to me. The sitting was suspended for a short time. (The sitting was suspended at 10.37 a.m. and resumed at 10.44 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6781	I'll start the interrupted session again. I ask you to take the seats. I have to tell you that some of the issues are assessed differently by the clubmen. So I can't tell you about a result. However, everyone agrees that the debate should, of course, be held within the framework of the Rules of Procedure and that the rules of the game should be complied with, which are necessary for such debates. I call Mr Pilz after I opened the sitting again. His voluntary time limit was 10 minutes. He spoke for 4 minutes. I'm setting the clock to 6 minutes now, but it's, as I said, a voluntary time limit. Please, Mr. Dr. Pilz.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e6819	Thank you, Mr President. Shortly before the sitting was interrupted, I experienced something that is fortunately rare in this House. I have pointed out that there can be no appeal justice, from any political point of view, but that the principles of the rule of law apply – to demonstrators whatever background. Interestingly, the only visible consent of opposition representatives has come. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] This gives me to think when I look at the chronology of the ongoing events. Normally, when a criminal proceedings are initiated, the following happens: The Procuratorate shall be informed of a case, shall initiate a procedure or not, and may be informed of the press and politics. What was it like in this case? ==References== April – not yet a speech by police, not yet a public prosecutor’s office – explains the ÖVP’s club about the APA, which he believes should be done. [[Abg. Young: Laughing!]] I quote: "A group of action from Greens, Left Chaots, violent anarchists, with the participation of the Green National Councilman, have taken violent action against the executives... .............................................................................................. [[Call the liberals:Olingers! Oils!]] [[Demonstration of the liberals.]] – This is explained by the clubman of the ÖVP – not the prosecutor’s office, no one! The beginning of the appeal justice. The next day the press attorney in Vienna explains to the public: Yes, the ad had been refunded that it could not yet provide detailed information about the content of the ad. A procedure will be initiated. ==References== April, namely today, for the first time during the morning, the public prosecutor's notice is filed with the public prosecutor's office. [[Call to the liberals: How was EKIS?]] The prosecutor has reported on something and has declared a procedure for which he has not yet officially been able to know anything. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's the crime? Is that what you're saying?]] That's what I'm asking myself: Is this another innovation of judicial policy under Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer? Is this a new way of dealing with the rule of law? Is a procedure now being initiated on the basis of a call for a political call? Does the prosecutor of the Clubobmann of the Austrian People's Party learn what he has to represent publicly and what he has in the post the next day? Does the procedure begin in the ÖVP Club? Is the Vienna Procuratorate the last to know that it has a trial to carry out? Ladies and gentlemen! I guarantee you: This Causa we're going to explain! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals.]] This freedom of access is: Now we have not managed the hustle and bustle of parliamentarians; now we have not managed to intensify the criminal law against Members, now we are trying it at the call of a clubman with the public prosecutor's office in Vienna on the occasion of a demonstration. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens won't condemn you, but I guarantee you, Dr. Khol: This question will be examined very closely. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as ironic hustle and bustle with the Freemans.]] [[Call to the liberals: From whom?]] Now at the heart of the whole matter: Mr Miedl! Did the whole thing only start with the violence at the castle gate? Wasn't there anything that you completely forgot before? Didn't a registered demonstration of Neonazis take place at Heroesplatz? Was there not an interior ministry that has approved a neonazis rally on a relevant topic at Heroes Square? [[Abg. Young: What does "appropriate topic" mean?]] Does the State Police not have clear documents in connection with their State Protection Report on the applicant, the Germania Burschenschaft, and some other neo-Nazi organizations? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Distance yourself from Mr. Ollinger!]] Now I have a question to ask you, Minister of the Interior: How could the responsible officials of the Ministry of the Interior approve a neonazi rally at Heroesplatz? How could that happen? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior! My supplementary question is: Can this happen in the future? Is it possible in the future that another neo-Nazi organization, such as the guy who belongs to a liberal parliamentarian, will hold the next rally at Heroes Square – what do I know on which subject, there is no limit to free fantasy? Is it possible that this will also be approved? One by one? And Heroes Square becomes the new demonstration center of Austrian and German right-wing extremism and neonazism, and the Minister of the Interior says: In the sense of equal treatment it is a matter of course!Unknown term type: "%s".? Are antifascists and neonazis being treated again in Austria? Or may one be treated better? Is the official justification, Minister of the Interior, that only a lot of the withdrawal of the neo-Nazis has been allowed? We are willing to provide you with evidence that the violent neo-Nazis are closed under the supervision of the State Police from the Hero Square. [[Abg. Young: Who are we?]] [[Abg. Achatz: Who are we?]] Why haven't they been accompanied? Why have they been released into the freedom of Carinthian Street? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The only one to be accompanied is Oillinger! It must be accompanied in the future!]] In order to document German, Dutch, American passersby and tourists that you can move through the Carinthian road in Austria without any intervention of the authority with "Sieg Heil" noise? Is that the new security policy? Is that equal treatment? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am asking – unfortunately purely rhetorical – for example, Mr Miedl: You're not interested in that? You don't care? You don't care about the reputation of this republic? Is that all yours? – These are the points to be clarified. Ladies and gentlemen! The rule of law will also cover the incidents of the 13th century. April for all – for violent demonstrators, for Neonazis, who have moved through the city centre in a clear act of re-activating, but also for an interior ministry that was unable to keep the situation under control and prevent the neo-Nazis' marches. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer]] We're at the beginning of a reconnaissance. These are not preconceptions, we are only at the beginning of a reconnaissance. But we're going to explain this in a comprehensive and comprehensive way. The questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will hopefully answer us in the current debate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7009	Mr. Dr. Khol! Your actual correction is irresistible? - Okay. Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7034	Ladies and gentlemen! With the introduction of legal protection insurance for officials, the government has made an extremely important policy for executives. If today Mr. Dr. Pilz and also Mrs. Dr. Mertel ask why only the executive can and can benefit from this legal protection insurance, then I have to answer because we are constantly experiencing that the demonstrations are becoming more violent, because the executive officials are extremely threatened that left chaots are not afraid to use violence, and then the spear is turned around. Then it says again and again: It was the executive officers. – There are a lot of examples, and the officials are covered with ads. If Mr Pilz has spoken about it, he fears that there will be or is already an appeal justice in Austria, then I would like to say: Do you know what phone justice is? – If Mr Jarolim, SPÖ’s Justice Officer, in a press release, claims that all police officers are beating police. – This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This creates a climate that is extremely dangerous. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's completely absurd what you give of yourself!]] – No, it is not absurd, I have your press release, honourable Member! You know, it's this statement, it's about beating police, it's based on: We've already delivered the cops to the knife. – This is the left view of the executive. Mr. Pilz! If you stand there today like a Jesuit Father and speak of the fact that, of course, the unjust use of violence is being punished and so on and so on, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that you were always on the front line in all the violent opera ball demonstrations in Vienna. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you have against Jesuit Father?]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There has been thrown with Molotov cocktails, there have been fire sets – and one has not missed: Mr. Pilz! Mrs Petrovic has for the most part also done company to him. Mr Pilz has also said today that it is necessary to clarify where violence comes from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Edellinger.]] I would like to make a contribution to this clarification, Mr Pilz, and I would like to pay tribute to my colleagues. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: We have a photo on which Mr. Oellinger is shown, as he tries to get a police officer off the shield. [[the speaker shows a photo]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is immense!]] [[He-Rufe with the liberals.]] Mr. Ollinger is held back by a side-by-side – possibly a greener – on the sleeve. This is proof of the intention you have been called to this demonstration by Mr Schnabl, Member of the Commission. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is to explain, Mr Pilz. Please sit down and think about your past, Mr. Deputies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: This is resistance to the Greens!]] You know, I am also disappointed by the SPÖ and also by the Greens. [[Abg. Edlinger: Thank God!]] Once a year, most often when the security report is discussed, Mrs Stoisits is speaking here, thanking herself for the performance of the executive, says she has respect for her achievements. The SPÖ security speaker Parnigoni does the same – even at events. But: If the police are beaten if they are exposed to huge dangers, then complain, laugh at it, and rejoice that they're talking about the beating police. - That's your attitude to executive. I'm asking you not always pretend to be hypocritical and pretend to have something left for this profession. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Yes, I know that is a question of order, although Parliament has already had tougher words, Mr President. It could say, for example, Mr Pilz, that liberals are filleted, and he has not received an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7172	Please don't give me any polemics to the Bureau. – Please continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7190	This is unpleasant for you, Mr President. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7225	I ask you once again to continue your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7241	If they are confronted with the truth, then everyone will be very excited.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7259	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) For this polemic debate I give you a call for order, and I urge you for the third time to continue your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7289	First of all, you have just asked me twice, and what is also a suspect of order when I tell the truth?
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7307	Whoever does not follow the instructions of the President, it is literally in the Rules of Procedure, receives a call for order. That's why I gave this call for order. There is no political group in this House which, by volume, can somehow influence or prevent the management of the Bureau's duties. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7331	Yes, I am continuing and I am able to go back to the Greens' attitude to safety at all. There, too, Mr Pilz has often expressed his true opinion: the ceiling of the destruction of the state's monopoly of power, the disarming of the police and, to the extent that it still is, the abolition of the federal army. – These are your limits on security policy, Mr Pilz, to remind you of that once again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! No one in our group has any sympathy for skinheads or right-wing radicals. I can really emphasize that. But your practice, proven facts quite simply to twist, because it fits into your political concept, is politically quite indecent. For example, Mr Ollinger said: A rather disgusting tradition of blue-black it is to somehow shake our credibility with accusations to the Greens. . Then you will not give an occasion, Mr Oellinger. What to do You in a violent demonstration? - I'm really asking you that. Don't stop! Then you won't be caught in such an act where you're trying to take the shield away from a police officer. Ladies and gentlemen! Even the leitblatt of the left, the "standard", reports that the serious conflicts on Saturday came from disguised chaots. I quote the "standard": Greens, communists, left-wing extremities who have provided plasterstones at a construction site, with iron rods, with wooden picks to beat the police. We know all of this from Thursday's demonstrations; there have always been violent applications. I quote from a report by the Ministry of the Interior, which was the subject of a written answer to the question. According to this, the demonstrators called one another: "Put it on the cops with the rockets!" "Take it all you can find. Stones or bottles, wrench, what!" "You have to go closer; collect the stones..., they stand behind the grid..." – This means the police who can't defend themselves anyway. These are your "violent" demonstrations! [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] The parliamentary follow-up to one of these demonstrations was a debate here in Parliament, but none of the Greens has distanced themselves from violence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Van der Bellen, you always know very well about violence. You analyze speeches, you analyze language styles, you analyze action processes. In the violence of the word, you are extremely sensitive – but only if the others say so. Mr Pilz, for example, speaks of the "filekeeping of the liberals". [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] – You said that! You're forgetting that. Perhaps it slips out of your mind, but, Mr Pilz, nothing can slip out of what is not inside. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Obviously, you have an ideological bout of consciousness when it comes to illuminating the use of violence in your own ranks. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, you always want to give the impression that the Green Group is a political group in which there is only louder love, good, nice Members. You don't want to do anything – that's how you represent it. But since Saturday – no later than Saturday! – you must finally get rid of this idea, for Mr Oellinger has even been called by Mr Schnabl Security Inspector: Come on, it's going on now! to participate in this violent demonstration. [[Abg. Miedl: That's incredible!]] Deputies! [[The speaker holds a big photo, on the abg. Oillingers and several police officers can be seen.]] This picture speaks for itself! I know it's unpleasant to you; I can already imagine that. Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! Distance yourself from violence! I'll prove to you that this is necessary. [[Contradiction of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] In the "TATblatt" – shake You don't have your head! – have written a nice letter to the participants in the violent Thursday demonstrations, in which you thank yourself. Finally, it says: Thank you. – With best greetings, Alexander Van der Bellen, Eva Glawischnig, Kurt Grünewald and so on. – "Thank you" for the many damage, for the injured police, for having the Pallas Athens stormed, "Thank you," you say, Deputy Van der Bellen – and you sit there and shake your head! [[Call the ÖVP: Unbelievable!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You of the opposition should really consider who you are doing together with here. In any case, Austria does not serve you!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7480	A number of actual corrections are now being made. An actual correction has to be made with the replay of the claim to be corrected... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! To the Rules of Procedure!]] To the Rules of Procedure. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7513	Mr President. With me, Mrs Partik-Pablé, and all my colleagues here, I have just heard an incredible derailment of Mr Edlinger: Mr Edlinger called at the end of Mrs Partik-Pablé's speech "Sieg Heil" – I quote literally. [[Violent calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I call for an immediate interruption of the sitting, because this is the case of re-activities, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7552	Mr. Klubobmann! I'll have the record come. I didn't hear that call. If the call has actually fallen,... [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Edlinger, leave the meeting room!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! We're not going on!]] Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! The President called for business treatment Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol. – Mr Klubobmann Dr. Khol, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7618	Mr President. My colleagues, too, have heard this unacceptable call for call. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's great, that's it!]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] I don't think we can continue the meeting. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I can't do that!]] I now call for adjournment of the sitting, the constituency of a presidential term to be determined by the stenographs; perhaps the stenographer can say something. At any rate, I do not continue to consult Mr Edlinger under a "Sieg Heil" rule.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7689	The protocol leader just sent me to the House that this comment was a good one. I interrupt the meeting and call on the Bureau to take a stand for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7713	I'll start the interrupted session again. For business treatment, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7743	I would like to give an opinion briefly on business, on the call from Mr Edlinger, who said: Now only missing – and then he just made this call. I regret that. I believe that this call for action in this House has no place, and apologise on behalf of my group. I believe that it is also useful for the further course of the discussion if we are all really disciplined here and participate in the discussion in a reasonable form.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7771	Thank you very much, Mr Klubobmann. Mr Pilz has made a point of correcting the matter. – Deputy Dr. Pilz! Note Please refer to § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Start playing the claim you want to correct, and face the corrected facts.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7798	Ladies and gentlemen! I am correcting the statements made by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé in three ways. First of all, to me personally: I never participated in a violent opera ball demonstration in the first series. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman: More than once!]] Your explanation, Dr. Partik-Pablé, I would have participated in all violent opera ball demonstrations in the first row is simply and simply wrong! I'm actually correcting: The police as well as the Ministry of the Interior have also confirmed that after the first violent operal ball demonstration, the Greens distanced themselves from it and tried to stop any violent action, as far as it could be influenced by us at all. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: actual confirmation!]] Through constant repetition, an untruth does not become more true. Secondly, You stated that Mr Schnabl had called on Mr Oellinger and called for a rapid demonstration to take part. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the accusation of the abuse of office which has been proved by nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] I'm actually putting it right: Mr Oellinger has been publicly declared several times that he has been contacted because he was not at the time at the time of the demonstration, and he has been asked to communicate in the event of possible escalations and to help ensure a peaceful course. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Actual confirmation!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] The suspension of an official abuse against an undisputed police officer in this House is probably a one-time one, to which a liberal judge has only required it. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Thirdly, Mrs Partik-Pablé, you have declared that I have publicly announced my intention to "file" liberals. First of all, this is not true, and secondly, I would like to say quite frankly to you: I don't know what to do with liberal files.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7914	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of a further actual correction. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e7944	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé, referring to a photo, tried to claim that I had tried to get an official a shield. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not trying, I claimed!]] – This claim is false. [[Abg. Haller: This is not a photo assembly!]] [[Further calls.]] I'm actually putting it right: I was at the time when the photo was taken, surrounded by shields, and under the protection of a shield, I was taken a footstep by an official. - That's what I'm talking about. [[Call: Look here.]] The second claim made by Mrs Partik-Pablé was that the Inspector General called me to call on me to participate in the violent demonstration, with the reference: Come on, let's go! This claim is not only false, but it is the accusation of a criminal offence at the address of the general inspector and at my address. This claim is not only untrue, but without grounds in common and without limits! [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] You should be ashamed! That's out there, that's scandalous! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I'm actually putting it right: The Inspector General actually called me and informed me that there are violent conflicts in the castle gate. [[Oh! - Call the liberals and the ÖVP]] [[Call to the Freemen:Factual Confirmation!]] [[Abg. Miedl: Why does he call you?]] I talked to him about going to the castle gate and trying to calm down the situation, which was no longer possible at that time. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] That's the truth!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8078	Mr Dr Jarolim spoke on a further actual correction. Deputies! You know very well the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure, and I may ask you to stick to them.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8106	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dr. Partik-Pablé has previously made the claim that I had announced in an APA issue that all police officers present at the demonstration would have been "pocket police". This statement is grossly incorrect. I quote from the APA issue: "I have only experienced how a group of cops has been released with dogs and a totally innocent person who has done nothing has beaten from behind with a long beating." I would also point out that this is in no relation to what happened there, and that was far from the violence I deeply condemn. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] I deeply condemn the police's violent activities and also say that I was shaken about them. Mrs. Partik-Pablé! Their attempted misrepresentation and distraction from a Nazi rally is indeed embarrassing! I can tell you that.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8152	Mr Parnigoni has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8173	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Mrs Mertel, I think, has started the debate on the subject and has tabled an important amendment which I fully support, because it is also a question of having executives who are not currently receiving pain compensation for injuries in service. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Mr. Edlinger should resign!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: There the colleague Gusenbauer laughs! Snacky laugh!]] I can only invite you to accept this amendment because it is about the officials who are injured in the service, on the one hand, receiving legal protection and on the other hand also a corresponding pain allowance. Ladies and gentlemen! If, in addition to this debate, we are also discussing the incidents of the last few days, I would like to maintain the following. First: The SPÖ is against any violence, from whatever side it may come, but the right of demonstration and freedom of the citizens to express their opinion must be fully defended, and it must also be ensured, Mrs Partik-Pablé, that thousands may demonstrate against re-activism, that thousands may demonstrate in concern for the reputation of Austria and thus prevent the image from going around the world in public, after which some hundred neo-Nazis may go scanning from Hero over the Carinthian road to Stephansplatz. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Yes, you are right, but not by force!]] It is actually a scandal and a distraction maneuver – Mr. Federal Minister, also a distraction maneuver from you, from your mistakes – when you produce such symmetry, namely, the demo of right and, on the other hand, the plasters of left. They are trying to detonate the SPÖ and all those who are not arrested by the government's thoughts, so to speak, as representatives of violence, and on the other hand, we are very careful, Federal Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This is a groundless naughtiness and a denunciation of all those who do not adhere to the liberal thought or ideology of the ÖVP. As Minister of the Interior, they are the highest security authority and are obliged, in accordance with § 6 of the Convention's Law, to prohibit a meeting if the holding of the same ones endangers public security. Ladies and gentlemen! This neonazi demonstration was known to be registered. I'm sure you've also been familiar with the leaflet I've found, because it's on the Internet. There, under the motto "Congregation against the Injury of the Resurrected One" for the demonstration in Vienna on 13 May. April called, and then it says in the arrival recommendation: Let the organiser call you a mobile number through which the organiser can be reached throughout the demo day. Take care of a city map of Vienna, use a rental car for entry, do not miss the typical scene-clamottes, so that you can also look around in Vienna in peace, if necessary, and so on and so on. So: It must have been known to you that something bigger is happening because, for example, German neo-Nazis were asked to come to Austria for this demonstration. And that's where the Minister of the Interior has to act! Mr. Federal Minister, then you have to act, then you have to take responsibility and make sure that such a thing does not happen. You have had to know that there can be conflicts here, and therefore you would have had to put it somewhere else in accordance with the law of the congregation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The NS Prohibition Act draws very clear constitutional boundaries, and the scenes of the re-acts we have experienced on television: "Germany the Germans!" "Foreigners out!"Say Heil!"- Call and so on and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: "Sieg Heil" we have heard today too!]] [[Abg. Young: They also have a red-green coalition!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Security Police Act also obliges the police to prevent it from re-activating, and this is also preventive. That's why there was a need for action for you from the beginning, and that's where you failed. You have also massively damaged the reputation of Austria because the images of this scanning neo-Nazi have of course gone around the world, and that is unfortunate. Federal Minister! I wonder, Have you consulted with your experts? Did you get any recommendations from your experts at the Ministry of the Interior? [[Abg. Miedl: Of Schnabl, or what?]] What did they recommend to you? Did they say you shouldn't do anything? – I would really be very interested. High house! It's clear to me: 850 women and men were entrusted with a difficult task, and these 850 women and men of the security executives, according to their mandate, also performed well; the Human Rights Advisory Council also confirmed this. It is unfortunate that 33 of them have been injured. If criticism of the police is now being practiced that one or another may have exceeded his competences, then I have to say that the mission to the force was apparently not clear. They therefore bear the full political responsibility because you have approved this provocation. Mr Miedl! You know the pragmatism – or you've already forgotten it: [[Abg. Miedl: At least as good as you!]] With regard to the duty of service, it is precisely within that it is one of the top duties of a responsible security officer to contribute to de-escalation. It is therefore quite positive if a responsible person tries to move people to contribute to de-escalation. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Miedl]] I think this is important because it must be the top goal of the police to descale on such issues. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and ÖVP, now want to try again, of course, one who has proved in Vienna in many demonstrations that there is no need for escalation, and that in the possibilities that the police have – that is, limited, because you are missing personnel; You take away the staff, you take away the money from the police, you depress the police by not paying them the overtime by imposing a lot of burdens on them, namely General Schnabl, turning a rope out of it, that he has striven massively for deescalation. This is scandalous and unheard of! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Boy: He turned him himself!]] High house! The truth is – and for me it remains – that the FPÖ, with ministerial support, is actually trying to discredit the right to demonstrate. It is another attempt of this coalition to make the population mouth dead. Their aim is to intimidate the people so that no one can trust the "grievances" that this government has been letting go of us for two years and also in the future. [[Abg. Ellwall: A naughty underlay!]] On the other hand, we will defend ourselves with all our strength; you can write it behind your ears!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8355	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, Dr. Riess-Passer, has been reported by the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8377	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into that part of the Novelle Service Law, which concerns the officials of the Executive, and which can also be seen in a very up-to-date context, I would like to address a number of other points, which still contain this Novelle Service Law, because there are important points which should not be included in the table. On the one hand, this is a new regulation of special leave schemes in the public service, an institution which was created in the 1960s and has led to major imbalances and injustices, namely the institution of paid special leave for officials who have rightly encountered public criticism. I have tried in numerous discussions with the trade union to find a regulation. It was not quite easy, unfortunately it required a public event and a strong public criticism, so that something could be passed on accordingly. In the end, however, we have found a transparent and clean solution, which, as I believe, ensures in the interests of trade union representatives that the service provider could not be paid to the officials' representatives and could therefore also be affected by independence in this regard. I therefore believe that this regulation was necessary. It has led to the fact that there are no special privileges in public service, for which there is no justification. I would like to thank all those involved who have contributed to this regulation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Today's novelle contains a very decisive measure, namely the implementation of the family hospice for the federal staff. I think that is a very essential point. This is a scheme that will apply to all employees in Austria. It shows that this Federal Government sets a special focus in this context in order to enable individuals to be available in the event of illness by relatives or children. This is a unique model across Europe, something like that is nowhere else. This is a social measure, which is outstanding and exemplary for many other countries in Europe, and which is also a counter-model of those models in which we stand for active death aid, as is the case in other European countries. We want to make it possible to provide decent death support for people and to create the appropriate labour conditions for the family. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We have also put in place a number of measures in the field of executives, some of which have already been mentioned. One of the key measures in this context is – and this also has an up-to-date reference – that we have already made it possible in the last Novel Service Law to enable pain payment schemes, pain benefit advance for executives. It contains a regulation in this novel that ensures that even if a judicial title cannot be obtained, because the perpetrator is either unknown, deceased or volatile, pain money can be paid to the executive officials in the framework of the financial assistance. Especially when we keep in mind the events of the last weekend, we know how important and necessary it is that police officers who are injured and attacked in the exercise of their duties also receive a corresponding compensation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I believe that this – as well as group law insurance for executives – is a duty of care for the service provider towards his officials who are in danger. I have followed with great interest the discussion that has taken place here today, and I am very surprised at some of the opinions that have been made here. We have also taken into account the fact that there is a significant rise in the number of unwarranted accusations against executive officials in connection with their service activities. We will create the possibility of legal protection insurance for 30 000 executive officials, who will be beaten when the ad is returned, the proceedings are terminated or the official is acquitted. There has already been an interesting discussion at the Committee meeting on the question raised by Mrs Stoistis from the Greens: How can it be that you create a legal protection insurance for executive officials, but that, for example, the citizens are not protected in demonstrations, the demonstrators in this form? . There is a very simple and simple explanation for this, Mrs Stoisitis, my group. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, namely: The police have to go there, whether they want or not, and they have to face the violent demonstrators. That's the difference! [[New congratulations to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Pilz has also done so. It was an imbalance, he said, that there was a difference between the police and the citizens. To this end, I can say: I would have liked to define the term "citizens" more closely from him, because the protection of the rule of law and the police is there for the citizens, and the protection is threatened where there are violent demonstrators who endanger this rule of law. Mr Pilz! You still seem to have a problem with value on these issues, even if you have presented yourself here today in a very new role as guardian of the rule of law. ==References====External links== April 2002, Mr Pilz, and I believe that there is a past of you as a person and also of your group in connection with such demonstrations that you cannot simply wipe out of the table and, in view of which you cannot do so, there is no such thing. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Last weekend, there were incidents that caused 33 executive officials to be injured that there were 18 injured demonstrators that there were 23 ads, four arrests, a statement of facts, as we have already heard, against a Member of the National Council for resistance to state violence and damage to property. All of this is the result of outcries that did not exist for the first time, but that we have also experienced in the past, for example during operal ball demonstrations, during Thursday demonstrations and similar demonstrations. I would like to express my sincere thanks to the executive and the executive officials for their very difficult work, for their use even under personally threatening conditions in order to guarantee the security of the Austrian population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I listened closely to Mr Jarolim here and I would like to say the following: I also believe that, in this context, it should not be forgotten what a role it is to play when mandates of this House, when Members of the Austrian National Council take part in such demonstrations, because this gives the demonstrators a legitimacy. This gives the impression that these violent demonstrations by political leaders in this House would be approved. This is the problem that arises when you, Mr Oellinger, or you, Mr Jarolim, are there. That's the problem: that it gives you a legitimacy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Because Mr Parnigoni is concerned about the reputation of this country, I would like to say: I would, Mr Parnigoni, once catch up with it, explain how it is possible for your group's judge, Mr Jarolim, to take part in these demonstrations and then also to speak of suffocating police officers in combat montage. I would like to mention that the police have been attacked with paving stones, with boards, with iron rods, with all kinds of things. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Glass bottles!]] In view of this, these police officers still have to be accused of wearing a helmet in order not to be hurt even more seriously than was the case anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Incredible!]] To do this, I have to say: If you speak of our country's reputation, you seem to have not understood what it is all about, because the reputation of our country requires that we deeply condemn all forms of violence, Mr Jarolim, whether it comes from the left or from the right, but that there should be no support from Members of this House for such actions. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's absurd what you're saying!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There has already been a discussion on the presentation of matters relating to Mr Oellinger; Resistance to the state power is the accusation. There will also have to be a corresponding explanation of this accusation. But I thank you, Mr Oellinger, for at least confirming that Mr Schnabl She called and, as you have said, I have written it, informed you that there are violent outpourings at the castle gate. However, you did not explain to us why Mr Schnabl called you from the 183 representatives of the Austrian National Council. Mr Oellinger! What is your qualification for calling and informing of the violent outpourings of 183 of this House's mandates? That's where you allow us to ask what this means. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] It is not the first time that you have used the argument that you have acted there – just as Mrs. Petrovic did at earlier demonstrations – to intervene simply, as you are obviously having such good relations with the Black Block and that these people are obviously giving a lot of attention to your word. Mr Oellinger! That is also significant, namely that there seems to be a very close connection between you in this context. I would now like to ask a question to the Green Group clubman, Professor Van der Bellen. Professor Van der Bellen! All that has been demonstrated in the debate today and what we have been discussing for the time being in this House has already to do with the fact that, obviously, in your group and in the Members of your group, there is absolutely no sensitivity when it comes to expressly dissociating ourselves from violence, not only verbally. You were very uncertain yesterday when you asked a journalist what it was like, and you said: I've distanced myself a hundred times from violence, and if you want, I'll do it a hundredth time. Mr Van der Bellen, that will not be enough: A hundredth, two hundredths, three hundredths of verbal removal will not be enough if you do not act accordingly and make it clear to colleagues in your group that such actions are not acceptable in a democratic rule of law. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The bourgeois camouflage that you have hanged around becomes very bleak if you do not prevent such actions from being credible and lasting and sustainable when you are always leading members of your group in such events and involved in them. If there is even an advertisement against one of your Members for resistance to state power, you need urgent action. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Incredible!]] I believe that you, ladies and gentlemen, have to distinguish between your joy at the criticism of this government – it remains completely unscathed to you, of course, it is your right to criticize this government whenever you consider it to be correct and necessary – and the violent outcries at demonstrations, because it is certainly not that the legitimate criticism of this government must be expressed in violent outrages at demonstrations. – Mr Gusenbauer said sometime in connection with the Thursday demonstrations – and I noticed this because I found it very remarkable –: A civil society emerges from the demos! – I am contradicting you, Mr Gusenbauer, because a civil society does not come into existence where there are suffocating and maiming and violent demonstrators. It's not civil society! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Civil society has to do with the defence of fundamental human rights and human rights in democracy and in a rule of law, and one of these fundamental rights is the right of assembly – a fundamental right that has been fought hard and must not be shaken. But this fundamental right does not include violent outrages, does not include violations of executive officials, does not include property damage that is taking place there, nor does it include disguise. I do not understand why demonstrators who, as they claim, stand up for concerns which are also duly legitimised in democracy must be disguised. A person who has no intention of damaging and hurting and being violent must not be disguised, but can go on the road and exercise his right to demonstrate. He should be able to do that in a democracy too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Convention on Human Rights, Art. 11 para. 1, says all people have the right to gather together peacefully. We want to uphold and protect this right, and that is why we need to protect citizens and the rule of law from the fact that there are people who abuse this right.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8559	Mr Dr Jarolim spoke in favour of an actual correction. Deputies! I would ask you to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8583	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has explained here, among other things, that I would have makated about the police having that adjustment that she had. – I have not given a single word in this regard. The APA issues, as well as all my other opinions in this context, are available to you. Mrs. Vice chancellor! I consider this strategic use of dishonesty and untruths to be embarrassing, and I do not think that the insidious distraction of this Nazi rally, which you want to hide in the end, is unworthy of a federal government. [[He-Rufe at the Free and the ÖVP]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8628	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8649	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! In contrast to Mr Jarolim, I believe that Mrs Vice-Chancellor has taken account of the facts in a very factual, fair discussion by not pouring oil into the fire, but – on the contrary! – has been very temperate in their words. It is you, Mr Jarolim, who pours oil into the fire by twisting the facts. That's the facts! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would now like to ask the members of the SPÖ the rhetorical question: Imagine that, in the course of this today parliamentary debate, a liberal MP would have taken place to those unscrupulous sage that Rudolf Edlinger had given to himself in the discussion "Sieg Heil!" Called! What would you have done? Imagine what was going on! Imagine how you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ and also of the Greens, would have responded to it! That, Mr Edlinger, is not our style! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Edellinger) Step back!]] But since images are known to say more than a thousand words spoken, I, just as my colleague Helene Partik-Pablé did, can say that picture of the demonstration of the 13th century. In fact, April will be presenting a demonstration of how the Green Member of the Council of the Oillinger National Council holds the violence. [[The speaker shows the above image and presents it to the speaker's desk.]] Those who look at this picture, ladies and gentlemen, will see that there is not a non-violent, non-violent parliamentarian, but one who is violent, attacked, who is attacking, who is reaching out. [[Deputies Dr. Khol and Miedl go to the speaker's desk and look at the picture from nearby.]] Of this picture, which says more than a thousand words, all the ladies and gentlemen in this house, but also the spectators, can take a picture. And the next picture in this sequence – unfortunately not yet in the original, but in copy – shows even more vivid how oillingers are going to be. [[The speaker shows the mentioned copy of an image and also presents it to the speaker's desk.]] Against the police of the Vienna Alert Department WEGA, against our police who, in the truest sense of the word, have to stop the skull at this demonstration, the Greens are acting against them, the violent Greens! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] How did the leader of the Greens, who is said to be always in favour of nonviolence, Mr. Alexander Van der Bellen, say yesterday in the ORF? – I quote in the O-tone: Those who were there were political adventurers. I observe: The green Member of Parliament is a political adventurer. – This is the first. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Young: The countryman Jerusalem too!]] Secondly, How did Mr Pilz say in his speech about half an hour ago? – He said the demonstrators had committed criminal acts. – The conclusion: The one who commits criminal acts, i.e. is a criminal, is the green Member of Parliament of the Oillinger – no more and no less. That was quoted by Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen. I personally don't keep it with Van der Bellen, I don't keep it with fungus, I have my own personal conclusion. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: You personally only keep it with the untruth!]] Those who will be called by the General Inspector of the Security Guard, who will be asked by this one: Come, mix yourself among these demonstrators, you are the one who can influence them!, he is simply and simply the wheel leader of this group – no more and no less! [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The history of the Greens and their willingness to violence against this state, against this rule of law, against our Republic of Austria and thus against the executive who holds its skull is obvious. I only remember in keywords some passages of history – we forget so quickly –: 1987: Pillow: ==References====External links==* Official website January 1987. 1988: Pilz calls for operal ball demonstration and excerpts. 1989: Resistance in an action manual on the sabotage of interception hunters. - Who is co-author? Pilz of course. 1991: Resistance to the transport of mountain tanks to the Gulf region. – Who, among other things, paralysed the West Railway with a self-made bomb? I say: There was the proximity to the greens. I am thinking of the "TATblatt", which we have often discussed in this country and also in this House, the well-known autonomous left-wing radical, green-burdened "TATblatt", in which there have really been calls for violence, into crimes against our rule of law. And who are those who protect the "TAT leaf" that keep the hand protective over this "TAT leaf"? It's the greens. It's the supposedly nonviolent Alexander Van der Bellen. It's the Green Party with him. In reality, you are a party that stands for violence in this country – contrary to the ÖVP and the FPÖ! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits: This is the measure to which the President has called? – This is a lie after another!]] If a picture says more than a thousand words, then this picture of the guide of the wheel Oillinger is the living, visible and daily proof that we are right with our thesis. [[the speaker keeps the above image in height]] The Greens say in this country – and you can see it formally! – yes to violence, and that must be said in Parliament. We, the government parties, say no to violence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Do not cause these forms of violence, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, Mr Alexander Van der Bellen! You have the wheel leaders in your ranks! You are the political person, and we do not let you go of this responsibility! Come here, dissociate You yourself in a form of which we can say: Yes, we accept that! But you don't! The following applies to us: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Yes, to the executive! Yes, the rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8839	The Vice-Chancellor has received particular praise from Mr Kiss for her material presentation. On occasion, I would like the following speakers to present a moderate tone today, as we agreed during the session break. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That was moderate, Mr President? Do you hear bad? These are all lies!]] Mrs Stoisits! Your calls to the speaker's desk: "These are all lies!", you can save yourself! [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's true!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: order call!]] [[Abg. May. Posch: It is better to go to early retirement, Mr President.]] The next speaker was Mr Van der Bellen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e8926	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm going to try and keep my blood pressure very low. It's not easy. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Your blood pressure doesn't interest us at all!]] My previous speaker from the People's Party came to the speaker's desk and said not only that the Greens were the party of violence, that criminals in their ranks had said that the leader of violence was established with the Green Members – but the Bureau is silent. [[Discouragement by representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] As far as I haven't fully heard – I still can't believe it – the President says to Mr Kiss, who has said that he has spoken out loud and punishable things from the speaker's mouth... Ha! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has proved it!]] You call the ridiculous little picture a proof? Oh, my God! Go, please! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The police are attacking, that's what you're calling ridiculous?- Oh, my God!]] This will be all the matter of court proceedings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A "unseemly little picture" where police will be drearyed!]] Mr President. This was anything other than moderation, which Mr Kiss commanded here earlier. I cannot go beyond this, this ugly rhetorical style that you have listed here, Mr Kiss. I can't afford that. I will never let myself be caught saying that in the ranks of the ÖVP, criminals sat. This is not my style, even if one day you may be charged with a criminal offence at the conclusion of a trial. [[Abg. Kiss: Who talked about it?]] What you have done, Mr Kiss, is unthinkable! That's an ugly style, really! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's last-class! But I promised not to get upset. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can't even keep this promise!]] I'm saying quiet now, from Klubobmann to Klubobmann: Mr Khol! With your sentence on Monday – since your mind should have been a little calmed, I can't really let heat of the moment – in which you said that an action community of green, left chaots, violent anarchists, with the participation of the Green National Councilman, was violently opposed to the executive and have cast them with paving stones and wooden slats, submit to the honourable Member Oillinger that he has been in the midst of violent chaots and so on with paving stones and wooden slats against the executive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Martin Graf]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is documented!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (a photo harbinging) That's documented! A wooden slat with green flag even!]] That is, as you should know very well, a smooth untruth! This is a smooth untruth – not to use a sharper word. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am not going to stop what legal categories all this could fulfill, but that is clearly the wrong accusation – and I assume, the deliberately false accusation – of a criminal act! You still have the opportunity to take back this accusation. If you do not, we will be able to defend ourselves legally and politically accordingly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I regret, however, that the People's Party, once a bourgeois party, has taken over the stylistics and methods of FPÖ one since Monday this week. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We were always against violence!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Mr Khol! Sometime in the past, there was probably also the idea in the ÖVP – I am saying this now without going into a specific case – that there is such a thing in the Republic of Austria, which is called a presumption of innocence before a trial is not concluded. [[Abg. Young: You say that you have mushrooms in your ranks!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Now go They turned out and made allegations, also publicly in broadcasts, in front of ongoing microphones, defamated a Member of this House, without the slightest evidence, without waiting for any court proceedings, and showed us... [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer, who holds a photo for the speaker.]] – They do not fade out to show these color pictures. That's really the last thing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Boy: It's enough now!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr President! "Fucking"!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What does that mean, "fucking"?]] On the acts of violence: I do not think that we can express ourselves even more clearly than the honourable Member Pilz today in this House. I can only sign that! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Filed" he will be the liberals, he said!]] The removal of paving stones, wooden slats, iron rods, no matter what, of dangerous things of this kind, and their use against humans are criminal acts. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't think of violent Members!]] I don't have the slightest understanding for that! I have never had it, and I do not have the slightest understanding of it today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Distance yourself from Ollinger!]] I'll tell you something. Also as a Demonstrant, as a peaceful Demonstrant Van der Bellen, as a peaceful protestant, Pilz, as a peaceful demonstrationist, I have a right to a civil right to be protected from violent demonstrators. [[fierce calls to the liberals and the ÖVP]] I would also like to be able to exercise this fundamental right to freedom of demonstration in this state without any danger of being involved by such groups in violent, reprehensible, illegal and which file you still want to get involved. And I don't expect the police to do that. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: Freedom only had the Nazis!]] The police have not only the right, but also the duty to protect me as peaceful demonstrators at such a demonstration, and they usually do. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are suspected by your Members!]] If you compare the conditions in Vienna with those in capitals elsewhere in the European Union, you have to say: Shut up! – as a general rule; Everyone can make mistakes, errors can happen to anyone. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: ( towards SPÖ) But some errors lead to resignation!]] Hat off, usually, before the care, in front of the management, especially the Vienna police! [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Some errors also lead to political resignation! Edellinger and oillingers have to step back!]] This time I would also say that the police made a mistake in the non-assuring of a construction site. [[Abg. Young:... That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Is the police guilty now?]] – No, I have explicitly said that the mistake that this was not being guarded is not due to the police but, of course, to those who took the stones and then threw them against the police. I understand – Mr Miedl, to return to what you said an hour ago – the feelings of the police who must stand in the first row. Something's coming, you don't know what. But the premise that a present Member does not mediate, tries to talk to both parts, and that one needs to know from the outset that this cannot be successful, that is a mean understatement! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With both hands!]] I would remind you that there have been cases, not least with my colleague Pilz, in whom Mr Pilz was asked to speak in agreement and, so to speak, at the request of the police in Vienna. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Really not!]] The competent minister – that was Minister Schlögl – has confirmed this from the government bank. That was the occupation of the Turkish Embassy by members of the Kurds. If you just remember what a very delicate situation this was! The competent Minister of the Interior has confirmed from here how positive the use of Peter Pilz was. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Don't turn off!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why does Mr. Ollinger go to the police? We still don't know that!]] He didn't go to the police! Do you want to repeat it a thousand times? Your pictures are a embarrass! Make a fire out of it! Show it to the prosecutor's office, and then we'll see. Do you think we don't have witnesses for the incident? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why is there an ad?]] That's what we're going to look at! That's a bad policy from your side, that's all! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] For years Klubobmann Khol has been trying to find some parts of the ÖVP, for example Mr Kiss, and of course the whole FPÖ is always trying to stop us somewhere where we could scare your speculations after a few bourgeois voters. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You defend a violent delegate in your ranks!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Lord Pilz at the opera ball demonstrations!]] Of course, you hope so. For years, you've been trying unsuccessfully to put me up with Mr. Van der Bellen as habilitated hooligan. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You didn't, but you tolerated all of this!]] You will also be unsuccessful in the next few years. I don't know if you know what a habilitated hooligan is. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Petrovic went to Berlin to demonstrate violently!]] Yeah, yeah, everything's down and lying. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: "Slaughter and lie," yes tell me! That's your method of twisting facts!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: She drove abroad to demonstrate violently!]] I'm not going to let that happen. But something else about freedom of demonstration. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is your method of twisting facts!]] The liberal and conservative speakers today have already managed to conceal to a remarkable extent the real occasion of the demonstration of the 4,000, of which many young people, girls, boys under 18 years of age, why they have even gone to the street. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are the greatest perverter of facts!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Because you called them to go there!]] Because there was a neonazi demonstration, that's why! And you've all been silent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Police-Dreschen was announced!]] How do we deal with this? Is it your policy, so to speak, to leave such neo-Nazist groups – under quotation marks – "the street"? Can that be the whole answer? It must be possible to demonstrate against it, and it must be possible to do so peacefully! I would even say – and I think, unlike Mr Jarolim, if I understood it correctly –: It must be possible in the Republic of Austria to demonstrate peacefully, for example against the Wehrmacht exhibition. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: It's Wurst, against what the Greens are demonstrating, it's always violence with it!]] I personally think this is wrong, but if someone thinks that they have to demonstrate against the Wehrmacht exhibition, please, then he or she should demonstrate. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: This is a welcome occasion for anarchists!]] But National Socialist Reaffirmation, the sinking of Nazi songs on Kärntner Straße, ladies and gentlemen, that does not belong to this, in Austria this falls under the law of ban. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: The Edellinger!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] I expect you to know that in this ambiguity. I didn't hear that today. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: What do you say to Edlinger?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Edlinger has "Sieg Heil!" Call and sit in Parliament!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Edellinger called in this house the same as the Neonazis!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] That is why it cannot be right that I have heard today from the Partik-Pablé, but unfortunately also from Mrs Vice-Chancellor, namely: If you don't go to such a demonstration, you can't just suddenly be in the place of violent acts. You can be hurt as a Demonstrant, not only as a police officer, but also as a Demonstrant. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: As a police officer you can also get hurt!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you meet the oillinger, you're in danger of getting hurt!]] But that can't be the answer, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, you probably don't really mean that we're all calling now, no matter if that's the farmers with their tractors or the students, anyone who wants to demonstrate right or wrong is not going to go, because something could happen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: They didn't have paving stones in their hands!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The farmers don't throw paving stones!]] That can't be the answer, but really not! [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: This is unworthy of a professor!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell yourself at last about these violent demonstrations! For two years there have been these violent demonstrations!]] [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: For two years there has been this government!]] In conclusion: Mr Khol, you have here gone to a territory with your statement, which is not only totally unacceptable, but which is absolutely unacceptable for a representative of a bourgeois party for which I have thought it so far. The rule of law, no matter how one stands at the special Causa... – "A MP does not go to a demonstration" – that is your legal understanding! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: A parliamentarian is not going to a demonstration!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: No, who's violent!]] Aha, and you know that in advance? You, Mr Khol, know this in advance. [[Further calls to the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mr Khol, you have one of us, if you want to do so, accused of criminal acts, in an ongoing procedure. We will have to resist the legal and political nature. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Do this!]] I'm very sorry. Their account of subtracting from the Greens on this kind of bourgeois electorate is as transparent as anything. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That will not happen, Mr Khol, that is too transparent. If the ÖVP starts using the stylistics of the FPÖ, it will therefore not become more successful.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e9841	Mr Van der Bellen! You have indirectly criticized my presidency with the previous speaker. I have to tell you, according to your wish regarding blood pressure: If you say, in the direction of the representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals, "Stern and lie" when you say: "mese instigation", "mese politics", and "they don't bluff themselves", then that's not the rhetorical style that's appropriate for this house. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: I want Mr. Van der Bellen to apologize!]] I would like to make the following proposal. We now have two options: Either after the next 20 speakers, we have a list of calls for order, which is so long that we sit here this evening for an hour longer, if we continue, or we try to start again and prevent it. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e9875	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The "peaceful" Professor Van der Bellen has today ventilated a little the mask, and it has come to light what really is underneath it, namely the same green attitude as with Peter Pilz, with Karl Oellinger, with all those who are known to us. If there is violence on the street somewhere in Austria, they are there: Peter Pilz, Karl Oellinger – and we do not know who is among the disguised. [[Cheerfulness with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But perhaps there will be no more disguised in the future if a request I am going to make will find the majority. Professor Van der Bellen! I'll be the expression "You don't bluff yourself" don't use it when I come back to what you said. You spoke of "laughing" pictures, Professor Van der Bellen, of "laughing" pictures! – For me, ladies and gentlemen, these are not ridiculous pictures on which you can see how your green mob is ready for violence on the executive who does its duty. [[The speaker shows a photo on which demonstrators can be seen tearing away the police locks.]] You called these demonstrators there! This is official, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. You and your leading organizations have called these people there to do violence! This is official, Professor! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] "Laughy" pictures? [[The speaker shows a photo on which a demonstrationist throws a patchstone.]] "Laughy" pictures? Is this patchstone ridiculous? A five-kilometer patchstone, is that ridiculous, Professor Van der Bellen? If this paving stone hits someone, it has an end to all ridiculousness! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Of course, of course! Just show me the "slid wiper"! You will be demasked in good time, Professor Van der Bellen! And in the middle of our all friend and colleague Karl Ollinger in action! [[The speaker shows a photo on the abg. It can be seen among demonstrators.]] That's what everyone's supposed to see: Karl Oellinger in action in the middle, with these violent paving stones! The debate shows – and all the listeners can take a picture of it – that the opposition, at the top of the SPÖ this time Mr Jarolim, at the head of the Green colleague Oillinger, is supported by all his fellow members, on the side of the demonstrators. Should be! You chose the page! – Our page is clearly defined: We are on the side of the rule of law, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Green oillingers, green Jerusalem, green elf sons and as they all are called red Jarolims and as they all are called, plus General Schnabl – you have to say that – as a connecting man on the side of the perpetrators. Should be! You chose the page! You're on the side of the perpetrators. – We are on the side of the victims, we have the victims to protect – you protect the perpetrators. We have chosen our site – you have chosen your page. The listeners may decide which side is the right one. I believe that what is still in place here today is the legal protection for public servants, especially in times like this one is the only right response – and once again it shows: Mrs. Vice Chancellor's reaction immediately. The only correct reaction is: Legal protection for public servants. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits, come out and explain why you are against legal protection for the executive! Come on. You're out and explain yourself! You don't want these officials who are attacked by your mob to be accused of paving stones to have a legal protection because they have to take care of it when it becomes dangerous. They don't want legal protection for them. They're supposed to be wrong. Right on the side of the perpetrators! The rightless are those who protect the rule of law. – Not with us, Mrs. Stoisits! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not want to repeat the long list where you – officially held – were everywhere. I don't want to talk to middleman Jarolim anymore. I don't want to light up the role of General Schnabl anymore. But one is already interesting in this mosaic of cramps, violence and radow. I am interested in the contradiction, Mr Oellinger, in which you were involved. An officer from the WEGA alarm department tells us that Ollinger took the initiative, and he confirms this when a seemingly violent left activist was discharged and a woman was driven between them. Equation: I just want to talk to the officials why they had a couple of young dirndln with pink hair. And then he got another kick, so Ollinger. In the same APA report, Ollinger says: When the violence started on the ring, I was somewhere else. I sat with my wife at the Café Griensteidl. Only the call of a police officer – do we know: Friend Schnabl – had prompted him to return to the place of the event. And now it's going to be interesting: Stones have flown, and the water-throwers have sprayed. You don't mix in there anymore! – Mr Oillinger. So what now? Have you interfered as you claimed two paragraphs before, or have you not interfered more, as you claimed in the last paragraph? For me it is fascinating that an article of the "Salzburger Nachrichten", which obviously should support what you have done there, also produces a contradiction. This is an article, the author of which is well-willed for your behavior, but in which it is not said that anyone would have occurred to you. It's not there. This editor, whoever wrote that, would have reported that with such headlines, a police officer would have kicked you because he wrote you so benevolently. I'm interested in the editor of the "Salzburger Nachrichten". Why didn't he write that Ollinger was kicked? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Because it's not true!]] Ollinger has not been trampled, he must have stepped, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it!]] This is the very small difference, and that is why the matter is now known. There's a statement of a case at the prosecutor's office, and I'm not getting involved anymore. The courts will clarify everything. I think the next few weeks you'll sleep badly, Karl Ollinger, but that's not my problem. In order to know in the future whether others disguise themselves, because they do not want to be seen, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm curious about what faces will be under the ventilated masks.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10020	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, has been tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer, Mag. Kukacka and colleagues are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The next speaker was Mr Pendl. Your speaking time is adjusted to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10044	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, an important chapter, namely service law, today a little – or totally – on the wheels, because you make daily policy here, but also allow me to make two or three comments on it. First comment: It is politically appreciating and legally clarifying whether such a situation can be created at all, I would say once. If they had not been created, everyone would have been served. I say clearly, not only for my person, but for social democracy: We both reject violence from the right and from the left. And I say in a breath: We are behind the Austrian executive, it is doing great, but you also have to use it well, and you have to equip it accordingly, in terms of personnel and content, ladies and gentlemen, above all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And next note: It is to be welcomed if someone wants to be de-escaling, but on certain colleagues who cannot defend themselves to dream here without interruption, I find that not only inaccurate, but also unfair, ladies and gentlemen. That this is not all right, we all know, Mr Miedl. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I will return to the law of the service, otherwise nobody will say anything about it except my dear colleague Mertel. [[Deputy Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: And me!]] - Yes, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, that's right. – I also agree with two comments: The executive won't believe this, colleague Miedl. Go out and talk to them! They're going to tell you exactly what's gotten worse by this federal government. Of course, there is no one against legal protection, but why always at the lower level? We hear without interruption: uniform worker concept, Pipapo, in the public service, and then there will be differences again! Today we distinguish in officials, in contract staff old, in contract staff new, in employees in distributed areas, and we continue to do so. – Let’s make a legal protection for everyone in a wash! I invite you to think for colleagues from the executive, or read what your representatives are writing – yours, not ours! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Yeah, for pain money, no question at all. But if I put it with a kann-determining on a grant, where everyone knows the budgetary situation, then we all know together what will come out under the terms of the Members concerned. They're going to be bitters. Let us give them a legal claim, then it is a clear commitment by the Republic to its colleagues, and let us not make them a scepticism! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Very briefly, because the time for more precise interpretations is not enough: I stand at all the results of the negotiations – not a question – but one, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, is already a problem: We are experiencing a lot of things that have been done in committee without review procedures or with huge amendments, and this has been done here again. I would, however, like to comment on a question you have raised here: Today to talk about a privilege, given something that has been practiced in good faith as a practice between representatives of a government and officials for decades and was also legally secured, I do not think that is fair. No one will consider it unfair if a works council or a central works council or a group works council is paid by the service provider. This is the greatest naturality in the civilized world today. Speaking of a privilege here is not all right. We all know that this is being changed, but I also ask: Let's stick to the facts! I can't see a privilege here. We already have so many inequalities, including the question of the Federal Social Plan Act. I have already said here and in the Committee that there is no justice in this area either, because all all the all-inclusive references are disproportionately favourable to the small colleagues, including in the executive, Mr Miedl. I therefore propose the following amendment to ensure that those VBs operating in distributed areas are included and treated as: [[Quoted print version removed]] If we already have so much for justice, if we already have so much for fairness for the ladies and gentlemen within the public service, ladies and gentlemen, then let us show once again that we really mean it! I therefore invite you: Please agree with us on this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10139	The just-readed amendment tabled by Dr. Mertel, Pendl and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mr Strasser, Federal Minister of State, spoke on behalf of the Government Bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10163	Mr President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The House's agenda today provides, among other things, for the improvement of working conditions and the legal situation of our executive officials. We welcome this extraordinary and are glad that a problem that has long been due and necessary has now been brought to a good conclusion among the responsible vice-president. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The executive has done excellent work in recent weeks: in the fight against drug trafficking, in the fight against the tow and just yesterday and in the last days in the fight against child pornography and similar criminal things on the Internet. And she does – and has done – excellent work on difficult demonstration missions, whether in Vienna, at the "World Economic Forum" in Salzburg or at similar events. While entire street trains have been burned in other cities of Europe on such occasions, our path has had great success. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We cannot therefore accept that after this weekend some people try to turn the spear around and make the work of the gendarmen and the police ready. We cannot accept that, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to make it clear here: Not the police have thrown paving stones and iron rods! Not the police have walked through the streets screamingly! [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: That would be even more beautiful!]] They were chaotic and eternal, ladies and gentlemen, and not the police! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Paving stones from left, Nazi slogans from right – both are unbearable, and we do not want to do so in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For us, ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether someone comes from the right or from the left. For the police alone, what is the legal task and what corresponds to the law and whether someone exceeds these limits. And there it is very clear to say: Sustained, maimed, and glamoured heads roaring, both of them are personally unbearable, politically dangerous and with all consequences to fight! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Every paving stone that hurts – not just a policeman – belongs to punishment, and every parole that detests our rule of law belongs to condemned! If our democracy and the rule of law are attacked by both sides, it is my appeal here and today to the members of the Austrian Parliament to stand together and together to defend the fundamental values of our democratic achievements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] And that's where I have to say: I have followed this debate closely, and I am very unhappy about some of the speeches we had to see here today – thanks. [[Call at the SPÖ:Hören had to hear!]] [[Abg. Swimmling: There was also a lot to see!]] Therefore, my proposal: After such a weekend, we need a demonstration of political reason. After such a weekend, we need a demonstration of political reason and non-verbal outpourings, not even in front of this House! [[It is a surprise to the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The political debate has taken place here in this House! The police don't have to judge if you like something or not. The police must act exclusively in accordance with the legal circumstances. And what at all demonstrations, at all rallys since the 4th century. Of course, February 2000 is valid – I am not saying that this would not have been the case before – and this is true on this weekend, and of course this will also apply in the future. When Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen takes the right and the good of freedom of assembly and rallying for himself, I must say very clearly: This does not apply only to Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, this applies to any unspoiled citizen in this Republic if he acts in accordance with the laws! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP, on Members of the Free and Green Party.]] That is why the Convention also tells us very clearly and very clearly how to proceed, namely on the one hand: We then have to stop, as it is said, if Austrian criminal laws are violated or if there is a risk of public security. On the other hand, there is also a pass that concerns regional restrictions, for example the Bannmeile around Parliament, for example those regulations that say exactly whether rallys, assemblies or advertising of elections are taking place in the area of constituencies. There is no Bannmeile around the monument at Heroesplatz. If the legislator would have wanted it, he would have told us, the police, very clearly. [[Abg. Oillinger: But there is a law of ban!]] Therefore, there was no room for free. Mr President, this is not a question of taste, it is a question of law, and that is a difference that the police are keeping. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We can't just keep left and right apart or decide how it fits you politically into the business, but we have to act very carefully and carefully according to the law. And the competent officials of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna, in which I expressly thanked myself, especially Mr. Police President Stäil, once again acted correctly, and they have the full back cover of the competent minister in this matter. [[Complementary with the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] The use has been done properly and properly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I say to you as a citizen and also as a politician: It would be a very fatal triumph for a few chaots, whether from the right or from the left, if by taking such a course one of the pillars of our democratic rule of law, namely freedom of expression and assembly, were to be awakened, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The deployment last Saturday called for more than 30 injured security guards to show once again how dangerous police work is and can be at any second. With the introduction of legal protection insurance for officials, a really good aid has been provided and a long-term solution has finally been implemented together. From our point of view, this can also be the first step towards further action to be taken in this area. We think that we need to discuss whether a police officer needs to do damage when he damages a vehicle in the event of an operation. We are also in favour of talking about the state that the Republic will prefer pain money if our gendarmen or police are injured by unknown perpetrators. Therefore, we discuss a further development, a new development within the executive service law. And we also say to the disposition that a gene arm, a police officer, a criminal official, also a state official by weekend services, by holiday services, by overtime, by outside presence and other more special, specific, occupational extreme situations and burdens are exposed. Therefore, we also want to discuss a further development of pension rights with the perspective of life-time work. This will help to ensure that gender equality can also be executive in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to address some of the points raised in the debates. First of all, Mr Miedl, who asked the question of the behaviour of individual police officers. To do this, I have to say: Yeah, there's some sort of questioning! What has been particularly noticeable to me and what I really don't appreciate in particular is the fact that police executives don't talk to their employees, but rather send them information about them about the newspaper. – That’s to question, and that’s not something we absolutely need three times every day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, After hearing that a contact with Mr Oellinger had taken place, I naturally asked the responsible Inspector General. – I must say that I see a difference in the statements, Mr Deputies! After the information I have received from Mr General Inspector, either you have been here in Parliament or Mr General Inspector has not told me the truth. I think we have to get to the bottom of this. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is interesting!]] [[Call to the liberals:Listen! Listen!]] Furthermore, with regard to Mr Oellinger's report, it is right that it has been presented. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: One egg dance after another!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You should better coordinate with the Schnabl!]] Allow me, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, that I see your name of documentary images as "smart" – I quote you – as an unusually bold claim. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: A derailment!]] I do not want to interpret this further, but photos and other documents are important police documents that we urgently need for our work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That wasn't a police material!]] Mr Jarolim's behaviour. I can say this very clearly: The actions put forward by the honourable Member in connection with these incidents have been of little help in expressing this very politely, in order to bring peace in. It was anything but de-escaling what happened here. With permission, Mr Jarolim – he is unfortunately not present in the hall, but perhaps someone can tell him from the club –: I strongly reject the fact that our work is compared with police methods. This is an immeasurable thing I don't want to leave in the room. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Mr Pilz's comments. I've heard with interest that you know something. That is why my invitation to you, honourable Member, is: If you know anything, don't keep it for yourself, then tell us! This could be helpful for the clarification of various facts. Unfortunately, since last Saturday, you have not found the way to our security authorities. Over there, Mr. Police President, Mr. Shaitl, is at his disposal immediately if you know something that is of interest to our Enlightenment. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Can he contact me?]] Mr Parnigoni. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make one last comment on the comments made by Mr Parnigoni. I took his statement that an overtime was not paid. There can always be an error in the resolution. Tell us, ladies and gentlemen, where this has happened so that we can go about the matter. If a mistake has occurred here in the administration and implementation, we will be very happy to do so. Just as we look at these points, it is of course also that after each use a corresponding analysis is made, reprocessed and reworked. In this case too, I must say that I am grateful to the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Police Directorate Vienna that this has been made very quickly and very clear. The President of the Police has already made known to the public some of the consequences of this commitment. I think this is a good form of further development of the work of our Vienna police and our Austrian security equipment. I should like to thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10459	Mr Van der Bellen spoke on a point of order. Please, honourable Member, start by replaying the claim to be corrected.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10483	Mr President. In his speech, the Federal Minister for the Interior said that I had in my speech called police imagery "smart". - That's wrong. [[Abg. Heinzl: This is a scandal, Minister!]] I have – I can't remember saying that I said "smart," but I suppose I said it – pictures that the liberals showed around here are called "smarts". If the Federal Minister of the Interior for Police Evidence, unseenly, passes on to the FPÖ or to the ÖVP within a few hours, that is his problem and not mine.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10559	Mrs Fekter spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10581	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Mr Strasser Federal Minister! I deeply regret the course of today's debate, especially for our Members. What will remain, ladies and gentlemen? A colleague, the "Sieg Heil!" Another colleague who is in the midst of a demonstration in the midst of violent acts. – This is deeply unfortunate, and I would like to make it clear that we reject both behaviour from the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would like to thank you for the information that the Federal Minister has given us. But I would have another question, Mr Federal Minister: Will there also be criminal prosecution of the Nazi-Parols scandalous perpetrators who have shown themselves in the city center? We cannot allow persecution here, as with the force majeure of the demonstration of the area. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Including Edellinger!]] I would like to take up the appeal of the Federal Minister for the Interior and let political culture be reintroduced here in the House. The ÖVP condemns crimes committed by both demonstrators: the crime of the Nazi-Parols, namely re-acting, as well as the acts of violence from the left and also the verbal derailments of colleagues here and today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It was both criticised by the SPÖ and by the Greens that the demo, namely the right demo against the Wehrmacht exhibition at Heroesplatz, was not banned, because a particular sensitivity to political demos was needed on the basis of its history. This is precisely what we are criticising, Mr Greenewald, and I am putting in place a motion for a resolution that will enable political demonstrations to be held in this place in the future or, as the Minister has said – there is no legal possibility at present – perhaps also to consider the creation of a ban mile around this place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to take up these thoughts from the government parties and keep the heroic centre as free as possible from political demonstrations, then we also need to remove the illegal occupation that is currently in place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] For me it was very surprising that the Federal Minister mentioned here that there are two different opinions, namely those of Mr Öllinger and that of a high police officer. Inspector-General Schnabl calls on Ollinger during a violent demo. This has been announced here by Mr Oellinger; according to the remarks of the Minister, it is no longer as certain as that is true, but I accept it once. It would be interesting for me to know, Mr Commissioner, whether only you will be called by Schnabl or whether someone in the house, perhaps by the government groups, will be contacted? So I don't know anyone in the ÖVP. How many of the FPÖ or who of the SPÖ? Mr Oellinger! I'm a little horrified, because the call is a strong indication to me that General Schnabl had reason to believe that you have something to do with the demo or the violent chaots. Why is he calling you? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger! Mr Jarolim! This testifies to a huge lack of sensitivity, which both of you have demonstrated regarding the demonstrations here. Are you really not aware that you are so naïve that you do not notice what you are doing with your presence at demos in the violent sector, what you do with it when you stop in the midst of violence? – Of course signal You give the perpetrators or the participants that everything is in butter anyway, because Members also participate in it – as if it were legal, as if this House approved it. I'm condemning that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I also condemn this lack of sensitivity, because if you, as a Member of Parliament, go into the middle of violence and are violent in the midst of it, you may not be able to descale. That's an excuse that came to your mind after all, it doesn't contribute to de-escalation! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There is thanks to God in this House for a very broad consensus in condemning the violence of the right, of verbal loopholes, of criminal acts of the right, a consensus on Nazi re-activating – this has also shown the derailment of Mr. Edlinger; there has been an immediate call of the whole house. Unfortunately, however, violence from the left of this closed consensus cannot be felt. I would like not so much blindness on the left eye.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10688	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fekter by Mr Kiss, fellow Members, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mr Oellinger has spoken. The speaking time is 8 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e10713	Ladies and gentlemen! On Thursday last week, when I learned that a rally for the Heroes Square was approved for Saturday at Heroesplatz in Vienna, which was organized by the "Cameradschaft Germania" and by a Mr. Otten from the border team of Cimba, I also addressed the address of the Minister of the Interior, of course, to the police director with the request to ban this rally. I would also like to explain why I was in the first place for a ban. It's right: Demonstration law applies to all in Austria. Even those who want to demonstrate against the Wehrmacht exhibition should be able to demonstrate – I am standing – but, and this restriction is important to me: If in Austria an organisation acts as an organizer known to me as a neonazist – the state police obviously not; but it is according to German constitutional protection – but the Austrian state police says that it is anyone who is on the right, but is not neonazist, then I have a problem! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] In my opinion, not only does the fact that the participants in the demonstration follow "Sieg Heil!" have called, but only the circumstance – which was known to me and could be known to anyone who only somehow has eyes and ears to hear and see – that it is a neonazist organization to take action. [[Abg. Miedl: Mr Colleague! That's a judgment of value!]] This order of action, Minister of the Interior – and unfortunately the police director and the Chief of Staff of Vienna are no longer present – applies directly to those responsible, because, as you have correctly stated, Minister of the Interior, criminal law is directly applicable. [[Abg. Boy: There must be a crime!]] Now, let me tell you something, you may not know: The Constitutional Court, in a very interesting knowledge, which occurred in the mid-1980s, has dealt with the Nazi Prohibition Act in Austria and has determined that, even if the Convention or other laws do not directly mention the prohibition of national socialist re-activities, the legal immediate effect of the NS Prohibition Act naturally affects the individual legislative instruments. In other words, the authority must, on its own, consider whether it is a re-activating or a demonstration of people who do not agree with the Wehrmacht exhibition. In the case of the "Comradeship Germania" only one conclusion could be reached: This event is because it is an event of neo-Nazis to forbid from the outset. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] There's the difference. I'm surprised the Minister of the Interior doesn't know that. [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: You should have banned the demonstration!]] An organization like the comradeship cannot be forbidden to read that in the German constitutional protection reports... [[Call the ÖVP:But we're in Austria – aren't we?]] Unfortunately, I can only refer to the German Constitutional Protection Report because comradeships in Austria are a new phenomenon. An organization like the comradeship cannot be banned because it does not form itself as an association! – Simple and touching. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Minister of the Interior! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The interesting thing is... – Mrs. Fekter, let me talk, you've already spoken. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter:... do you also do this to the left-wing organizations?]] I would like to have a chance because you have constantly accused me of being a criminal here, so to speak, using my right to speak. Do you understand? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It's a clear thing – for me, for everyone who deals with matter. I can tell you something else: I made the effort on Thursday night and looked at the website of this companionship. Where am I being linked? – To the NPD to Germany! By the NPD-Kreisverbands in the former East German territory, in Saxony, in Thuringia, and by the comradeships in the Federal Republic, the exhibition is called everywhere for the Wehrmachtsaussung in Vienna. The interesting thing about the comradeships is that they are the successor organizations of the banned parties in the Federal Republic, the so-called Freedom Workers' Party and some other organizations, and that the Constitutional Protection Report says that the problem with these comradeships is that they cannot be held as organizations. You can't ban them as organizations, that's right, because they don't make the mistake of establishing themselves as an association or a political party, but in Austria it's even possible to organize a rally, a neonazist rally at Heldenplatz, at the Heldenplatz, 60 years after Hitler spoke there! Here at Heroesplatz you can stand down as Neonazi with a transparent "German Reich". That this is possible is a shame to this country! That is why I have called for the ban, ladies and gentlemen – and not only in retrospect, just like some others! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] After all, you are honoured to notice that: They've been neo-Nazis! [[Abg. Jung: (keeping a photo in height) Now tell us why the green jacket has to hold you back!]] It was important to me from the outset to the Minister of the Interior or the competent authority that we want a ban. If the Authority does not apply the NS Prohibition Act, because it does not come to the realization that it then comes after the rally, namely to the realization that it is Nazis, then the worm is in it, then you have a problem, Mr. Interior Minister, a problem with the State Police in Vienna or anywhere else, that can close your eyes and ears – like you, Mr. Interior Minister! You should have acted, because that's your responsibility! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior, we know each other! [[Abg. Young: How was the phone call now? Can you tell us something about it? Are you a V-man of Schnabl – or not?]] I am dismayed that the Minister of the Interior of this Republic, with whom I also talked about what can be done to de-escalation at demonstrations about about a year ago, is a conversation that I held with General Inspector Schnabl, because he is in favour of de-escalation. [[Abg. Young: Who called? You or he?]] – Haven't we talked about deescalation too? Is the Minister of the Interior of the Republic perhaps going to forget that? Minister of the Interior! Were we not the two of us who demonstrated together a little more than twenty years ago – and I say this quite consciously here – against Mr Burger's presidential candidate because we considered his candidate to be a neo-Nazi candidate? [[Federal Minister Dr. Strasser: Of course!]] Didn't we both – the current Minister of the Interior, then student representatives like me at the University of Salzburg – get annoyed and ask authorities to enforce the law on bans? [[Abg. Young: You always talk in the past!]] Today, this Minister of the Interior is coming to the stage and saying to me: There's nothing to forbid! One may demonstrate as much as the other. [[Call to the liberals: we are in Parliament! If you think that's a stage!]] Minister of the Interior! This applies to everyone else, only to Neonazis, we and the Authority, and thus also to you as the Minister of the Interior, a Constitutional Law, the NS Prohibition Act, which is in constitutional order, to which there is a sufficient Judicatur, as you have to do – and you have not implemented it! – that we can shake this out so easily by the way. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] What I accuse of this federal government and the coalition parties is that they have ignored a constitutional law in this regard. I'll throw that before them. And now I'm telling you why I went to demonstrate. For that very reason! Because, as in 1980, as Mr. Burger was in office, I have something against the fact that the street belongs to the Nazis, and quite something against the fact that Nazis, even if they act as neo-Nazis, can do what we have to do in our Republic, that is to say, to re-act. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] That has nothing to do with us, and that forbids us from the law! That's why I took part. Ladies and gentlemen! I can tell you a very touching moment – for me, perhaps not for you, but for me it was touching and at the same time shocking. I came to the opera for a demonstration – and I see there a person I have known for almost 20 years since I was in Vienna. He's 93 years old now. He was detained in a French detention camp because he was a Jew and participated in the Spanish Civil War on the part of the Republic. He has been put in the concentration camp by the Nazis, he has not experienced this republic like others with great honours, but he has fought for this republic and for democracy in that country. And this 93-year-old man stands there, happy to see me, and says to me: Unfortunately, I can't go with you anymore, but I would also like to take part in this demonstration. [[Abg. Miedl: We'll start crying right now!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr Miedl, it's crazy how you behave!]] I was and am ashamed that I could not calm down and say to this old man whose life's work was to stand up for democracy: This is just a small episode, nothing happens in this republic, which makes it possible for neo-Nazis to articulate! Unfortunately, I couldn't tell him that, because if Neonazis can demonstrate at Heroes Square, it's just the same as it was told me. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! What was particularly embarrassing and embarrassing about your argument is that you have spoken of 4,000 or 5,000 violent people. - You weren't there, but I was there. I was pleased that there were 14-, 15-, 16- and 17-year-olds from schools who could not grasp what they saw! I have tried to talk to them about the fact that the police were, of course, posted on the inside of the Heroes Square for good reasons and that it does not mean anything serious if the police are not also on the outside, so also to their protection. But the look, ladies and gentlemen, was fatal! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] They have had the impression that the police are only there to protect "the inside" they have rightly held for neo-Nazis. These young demonstrators and demonstrators were not the violent ones. [[Lively contradiction and ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kiss: No! 33 cops beaten! They probably mutilated themselves! 33 injured cops!]] That wasn't the violent ones. There has been violence, from a group of 50 to 100 people, and I would also like to explain to you once again this incident that is so massively interested in you. When, after leaving this peaceful demonstration at 3 p.m., I received the call, I tried to come to this place, and I saw: There are stones, lattes and on the other side waterhearers in use. I mentioned it to a journalist: I am not so brave to stand between stones and waterthrowers, nor have I seen any more way to influence this group. If I had been able to do this and if I had taken a perspective, I would have done it. But I'm not tired of life! I repeat: I'm not tired of life. [[Abg. Young: So the police were in danger of life!]] I'm not tired of life. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Who was in danger of life? Who was in danger of life?]] Ladies and gentlemen! As a result of this commitment, I have talked to many people who have been trained. I also have some police officers – and unfortunately there were also some from the WEGA alarm department... – because I would least trust them because they are a professionally trained team for me, which can also exist in this critical situation. [[Deputies Schwarzenberger, Kiss and Jung: Why "sufferer"?]] On the other hand, I have also seen the poor, and I understand every excitement. A rural poor man who comes from Eisenstadt – and it was an iron city – to Vienna and is confronted with this violence, I understand in his emotion, and there I can only say: We only had 2 days to think. [[Abg. Kiss: You fought against WEGA officials! "W" is called "WEGA"!]] But with a professionally trained police officer who knows he's only trained for violence, I don't think it's particularly courageous when he hits a 14-year-old girl with a stick on his head, which the girl then falls to the ground and is out of power. Nor do I find it courageous if one of these WEGA people pulls or kicks a 14- or 15-year-old girl – both were red- or pink-haired – on the hair. [[Abg. Kiss: What did you do?]] I don't think that's courageous, and that's what my intervention was all about. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] First of all, I asked about the guy who was lying there on the ground: May I ask: What's up, and I got a correct answer. I was very glad that I received a correct answer. And then I asked those officials who attacked the girl, but didn't get a correct answer. – That was what you call my "resistance to state power". As a result, I had a very excited debate with the officers of this WEGA, during which I obtained a footing. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Miedl.]] Mr Miedl! Let me talk now? [[New calls from the Abg. Miedl.]] [[Abg. Kiss: I suppose you asked for the service number!]] – Is it possible, Mr Miedl, that you listen? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Is that still possible? I had a excited debate with these police officers standing around with the shields around me. In this case, this hike has fallen. I then and subsequently asked for an appointment with the police from the WEGA because I wanted to talk to them about it because I can understand the discussion, the debate, also the emotion during discussions and because I believe that talking together is still better than touching each other's heads. - That's my point of view. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The consequence of my behaviour, that I have said: Let's talk about it, let's get together. I don't make an announcement about this trip, but I want to talk about it – he laughs, Minister of the Interior! –, "Let's talk about it!", was that on Monday I received a call from the commandant of the WEGA department, Mr. Brinek, and received an appointment for next Tuesday. [[Rejoicing by the Federal Minister Dr. Strasser]] – I will not see this date, no, otherwise someone else comes from the ÖVP and the FPÖ and says I want to influence the WEGA and prevent their testimony. But the consequence of my behavior was that with your behavior, you're making it impossible for me to talk de facto. You force me to consequences... – Mrs. Brinek, what am I supposed to do? – And I talk to the officials who showed me, and ask them why they showed me? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Take someone with you!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go and take someone!]] And that's not an influence? No, thank you, Mrs. Brinek, everything that's right. Let's not talk about it anymore. These are the facts, and we are now drawing political conclusions from them very briefly. What I can see is that the Minister of the Interior does not say anything about the fact that images, which have now clearly shown themselves as police images, are in the ranks of the FPÖ. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Minister of the Interior! Did you learn anything from the case EKIS, yes or no? [[Contradict with the liberals.]] If the FPÖ delegates are fed directly with the police material, or get Do you sometimes think anything else? That would interest me! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] How are you now acting, Minister of the Interior? Minister of the Interior! What about the fact that the Council of Ministers – okay, you have to – is about an advertisement, and then Mr. Westenthaler goes outside and informs all journalists: Anzeige, Ollinger, you know it, resistance to the state power. – The prosecutor's office itself did not have this ad until today. Today, she has officially joined the prosecutor's office. I'll tell you: Here the words of Mr Khol and Mr Westenthal are deliberately used to criminalise the opposition and, in particular, me, and you will still hear from us!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11183	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall grant Mr Edlinger for the interim call "Sieg Heil!" a call for order. Since this call for order in its dimension cannot be compared to other calls for order, I will also address it in the next presidential term. Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Sweitzer to speak on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11212	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I hope not all that Mr Oellinger has said now is as false as the claim that we have gotten these photos from the police. Mr Oellinger! These are photos we got from a photographer who was there as you were, but not to participate in the demonstration, but to photograph the participants in the demonstration. [[The speaker holds several photos.]] And he also photographed you and provided us with these photos.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11253	Next, Mr. Bundesminister, Dr. Strasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11274	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Five remarks on the comments made by Mr Ollinger. – First of all: Your political attitude and your political assessment are yours. The Austrian police, among other things, ensure that you can express this attitude not only here, but everywhere in Austria, in every place and at every registered rally. [[Abg. Olympians: (the right shin exploding and pointing to an injury) Yes, I see! I noticed that! Thank you!]] Secondly, The police don't work after optical impressions. She doesn't work for feelings. It does not work according to political values. She works exclusively – and I have to stress this in this House after this debate – according to Austrian laws, and nothing else, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: The Prohibition Law is an Austrian law! You have to do that!]] And with regard to your assessment that in such a situation it is a life-threatening situation, I must say: The police who serve there can't pick it out. He serves the Republic there and holds the head for your security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: Sometimes the feet too! Sometimes the foot!]] Thirdly, Mr Oellinger! According to my information, this weekend, no "poor of land" – so-called by you – took part in this mission. That must have been at another demonstration. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] Fourth point: I just showed myself all the slogans, transparencys, banners, inscriptions and posters that were used this afternoon. I don't want to read this so that I don't advertise it, but we didn't find a banner, a transparency, a parole, a poster, an inscription of the content you mentioned here in our information. I have to say that in all clarity. [[Abg. Ollinger: It's inside the "Salzburger Nachrichten"!]] [[Abg. May. Sweitzer: There's a lot of stupid stuff in there!]] Fifth and last point – I would also like to say this very clearly, and I have no problem at all with that: I certainly did some nonsense in my student age. I am very proud of some things, and today I am fully involved, including the fact that I organized a demonstration against the presidential candidates of Burger at that time. This is also clearly stated here.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11405	Mr Jung spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11430	Mr Oellinger said earlier that our clubman had already talked to journalists about the advertisement yesterday, and the advertisement had only been received today. I read to you the following – you could have taken this from yesterday's APA report on the Heroes Square demo as well –: "On Tuesday, the public prosecutor's office in Vienna confirmed that it had received an advertisement against the deputy clubman of the Greens, Karl Ollinger." - Quote. Mr President, I should like to thank You should really think about what you're saying. A corrective position after another!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11469	The next speaker was Mr Reindl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11490	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Oellinger, you spoke of the depressed rural poor during the demonstration last Saturday. The Federal Minister for the Interior has put this right and stressed that no one from the Gendarmerie has taken part in the measures to protect you and protect the other demonstrators. – Mr Oellinger, you probably take part in such many demonstrations that you do not even know when you were where. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Oellinger! In any case, it is still not clear: Have you volunteered to attend this Saturday demonstration, or have you been called there? [[Abg. Ollinger: (shaking the head) I was "forced"!]] – Your presentation that you would have acted as a peace angel during the demonstration last Saturday has at least failed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I would like to stress that if this is not to be done completely in today's debate: We liberals have always weathered against the privilege economy in our country. We have always opposed the fact that certain people enjoy benefits that others can only dream of. I therefore congratulate Mrs Vice-Chancellor on her speedy progress in this area, and on the new arrangements for the special vacation of officials, which allowed for further free elections to be fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] High house! I've been a gendarm for almost 24 years and I know what I'm talking about. I therefore know how necessary a group legal protection insurance for the security executive is. At the meeting of the Constitutional Committee on 5 October. However, on April of this year, the Greens have again shown clearly on which side they stand. As regards group legal protection insurance for the executive, Mrs Stoisits, who is currently showing me her delightful back, meant that this was counterproductive. [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] [[Abg. May. Stoisits talks with colleagues and continues to turn his back on the speaker]] She regretted that so few executives were sentenced! The executive can in principle do and leave whatever it wants, according to the motto: I don't think anything's gonna happen to me. You have an insurance that pays the public hand. . So the Members of Parliament who are still turning their backs on me, Stoisits. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Mrs Stoisits, I would like to tell you once again today: The security executive in Austria does and does not leave what it wants. It shall perform its service in accordance with the statutory and internal rules. It protects the entire population using their own health and life – as it did last Saturday, when a demonstration in Vienna brought the most severe outpourings of the left against the police. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] High house! The police also protected the Green MEPs, members of the Greens' Parliament from Vienna, as well as the Social Democratic Justice spokesperson here in the House, Mr Jarolim, when they took part in the above-mentioned demonstration of the violent left chaots and the anarchists. Ladies and gentlemen! The Greens have shown their true face. They took off their mask. They are not as harmless, as nice and as peaceful as their boss Van der Bellen repeatedly tries to present it to the public. They also do not agree to a group legal protection insurance for the executive. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is the same speech! It's already been read out today!]] Mr Kogler! They also do not agree to a group legal protection insurance for the executive. Much more important and much better it is for you to take part in left-wing demonstrations, in which executive organs are always damaged. Ladies and gentlemen! As a gender, it is perfectly clear to me what would flourish in the case of a red-green federal government of the executive in this country: More right for the chaots, no legal protection for the executives, perhaps even legal protection for the Randalians. – Good night for the Gendarmerie and police in Austria at Rot-Grün! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The Social Democratic Staff and Trade Unions of the Executive will no longer succeed in bringing Gendarmen and Police to light! No one in the security executive will lose your weight, that the Social Democrats also represent the interests of the Austrian executives here in this House. Mr Jarolim has shown us too clearly, on which side, besides the Greens, are the Social Democrats. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals with Mrs. Vice Chancellor Dr. Susanne Riess-Passeran will continue to protect the executive, the injured and not the perpetrators in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11604	Mr Oellinger spoke on a personal reply. I would point out that a personal response requires a restriction on the presentation of the facts. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: He's not here!]] [[Abg. Kößl: He doesn't think this is worth it!]] Mr Oellinger is not in the hall. . I would like to draw attention to the fact that I feel that when I speak out and then leave the hall, I feel that this is inappropriate. The next speaker is Mr Prehauser.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11702	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to make an amendment by the Socialists so that the policy of the matter, that is, the law that we have to deal with today, does not have to stand by. I am entitled to make the following request regarding the arrangements for the application of doctors working at university clinics as a scientific assistant: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The law to be dealt with once again provides an opportunity to point out an inequality which, however, is particularly important to me in the context of political work and which, as I believe, also applies to all other parties. It is important to point out differences between private workers, private workers on the one hand, and federal staff on the other hand: Of course, the starting point for political work here is a different one. For example, a carnage or leave from the private sector is simply inconceivable for a long-term political work: If you want to spend ten years in Parliament and then return to your new profession, you are simply no longer able – because the wheel of time has turned on – to fill out the job you left. We also know that there is a possibility for officials – and I appreciate that as a very good institution – to reconcile politics with the profession, to leave, to leave. We also know that the new law considers so-called exemptions from three months of age to be compensation for the beneficiaries. I am of the opinion that this is a good solution. At the same time, however, I would like to draw attention to the reality of the practice of other officials in the field: There is the case in Salzburg and Upper Austria of two judges working politically in the city Senate, in the city government. In the case of judges, leave is only ten years. As we know, this is not the case for prosecutors. What's the matter with you, why do I tell you that? – Because there is a problem-solving solution here, which would have to vote in a worrying way, because it simply underlines injustices. However, the result was a FPÖ-political positive outcome for these two judges: You have – you wouldn't think it possible! – two prosecutor positions. I'm just talking about Salzburger. Vice-Citizen Mitterdorfer, who has himself announced his desire to remain in politics, in the hope of the 60th anniversary. He has also announced that he will be able to make an agreement with the election date. Then there was a change in pension law, he had to provide a little longer service, and this gave the problem to his further candidate. I think that the solution of the Minister of Justice, as unbureaucratic and as quickly as possible, is visually wrong. Here one should have the courage to formulate the laws in such a way that such things are also possible. I believe that people who are supposed to work politically should also be supported. However, we do not want to have these angular trains and we will know them in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Now a few words on the speeches of my previous speakers. My colleagues, Mr Mertel, Mr Parnigoni and Mr Pendl, have already discussed the matter of law in detail here. I can only support their statements. However, I would like to ask a few questions to Mr Schweitzer. I would like to ask him, after he said here today, coram publico and coram pleno, that he is on the side of the violent agents and the others are prepared for violence, if he can remember, for example, that incident in the Burgenland, when a Jewish cemetery was disgraced in Eisenstadt, if he can still remember who was the shame at the time, if he can remember that he initially forgot to know these people at the time. – We now know who the authors were there: There were two young boys who had been to the hearing – in newspapers this is to be read – not so far away from the surroundings of my colleague Schweitzer. However, one is particularly far away today, apparently in South Africa, where it feeds the Internet with right-wing parallels. Ladies and gentlemen! Someone who stands here and says he's on the side of the blockades of violence, should also have the forehead and the courage to distance himself from these events. At the time, the resignation as the Federal Managing Director was not the sufficient measure. This is a matter of political hygiene, and he cannot escape this by putting himself here and keeping us a moral sermon. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Mainoni.]] Mr Mainoni! I can also give you a little thing: The addressed Mitterdorfer and you, you have also tried a quiet approach to protest in Salzburg's Landtag, when you disturbed an ongoing session and with loud calls also broke the locks. – You should not forget these things when you break the staff over others, ladies and gentlemen. [[Call to the liberals:... Citizens' rights!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Federal Minister said today that he was against paving stones from left and right. There is a need to assist him here, and one must also support the executive so that there can no longer be such things in the future. I remind you today, however, that about nine months ago we were also standing here and having similarly discussed emotionally. At that time, it was about dealing with the effects of the events related to the opponents of globalisation at the Salzburg conference, and we had a patchstone here on the stage at that time, and together with this issue we were dealing with it and were evocating accordingly and considering mutual debt allocations. What else has turned out, ladies and gentlemen? – You should know, the Minister knows too. – On the front of the Randalians at that time was an intern of the police wax tube in Salzburg! That's what everyone knew, you just didn't spread it anymore, because that could be... [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But also Schwahofer was there!]] It doesn't matter. I'm just saying, It is only then that one should break the staff over something when courts have decided not to shoot out of the target in the emotion and make mutual accusations, which one cannot take back or refuse to take back afterwards. [[Abg. Kößl: It's a difference whether he's a representative or a police practitioner!]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: Other principles apply to mandates!]] I say, Minister of State: For the future, it is simply about looking at demonstration announcements so closely that such events can no longer come. Then, on the one hand, there can no longer be such outrages, and on the other, we in Parliament have the opportunity to deal with the laws as they are, and not to water down the debate by day-to-day policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11848	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11869	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! A comment to my previous speaker: It is certainly a small difference whether it is a police practitioner or a representative of this House. And a briefing to the address of Mr. Ollinger: If the "comradeship Germania" were a neonazist organization, it would be banned in Austria. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: That's it!]] It is not a ban, and so the police would have had no other option than to give the consent to a peaceful demonstration. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Today's day on which this law comes to our decision-making is a very important day for the executive, and I would like to thank Mrs Vice-Chancellor and the Minister of the Interior very much for it. If elected by the people of this House – which should be a model for young people – participate in violent actions by anarchists, this is a sad thing. However, I find it even more regrettable that the green clubman Van der Bellen does not yet find it worth the effort to apologize with a single word to the Austrians for the behaviour of his deputy Ollinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The Austrians strongly condemn these acts of violence. And what can we conclude from it? – With these greens there is no state to do! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Even if you don't want to be true of the Greens: We live in democracy, and there is freedom of demonstration. If the left chaots have been demonstrating against God and the world for years, it must also be possible for different thinkers to articulate their opinion. I think it has already been clearly emphasized by the coalition in the last few days and in the context of today's speeches that we reject violence and extremism from the left and the right. As an executive officer, I would like to say a warm thank you to the forces for their committed appearance at this demonstration on Saturday and to the injured police from this point for their best recovery wishes. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! What does the Klubobmann do Van der Bellen? He covers the honourable Member, Oellinger, who has joined the violent demonstrations. I am ashamed that there are mandates in this house who have taken an oath to the Constitution and to comply with the laws, but who are on the side of the violent left chaots that have gone off with bricks, paving stones, wooden slats, banging bodies and pepper sprays against the police. Mr Oellinger, according to newspaper reports, has even set up a crime record, namely resistance to state power, and has no courage to draw the political consequences. Why should he? Sein Klubobmann Van der Bellen told the press that the violent left-wing chaots are "political adventurers". "Political adventurer" – that must be broken on the tongue! 33 police are injured by the violent left chaots with bricks and paving stones, and Mr. Van der Bellen speaks of "political adventurers" and explains from this point of view that violence against the police is ridiculous, because that's what the pictures have documented. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What? What?]] – These pictures have documented violence against the police, and you have treated these images as "laughing"! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: With regard to the oillinger, yes!]] This statement is a commonplace and provocation towards the injured police. This puts the floor out of the barrel, and I say very clearly from this point of view: It is a fact that, with this democratic attitude, you teach students at an Austrian university! With us in the Most Quarter one would say [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, exactly!]] Like the Lord, so gscher! Mr Oellinger and Mr Jarolim. If you still have a spark of political responsibility, then step back and take Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen with you!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11971	I declare that the amendment tabled by Mr Prehauser is sufficiently supported, in a sufficiently factual way, and therefore also with the vote on the negotiation or further follow-up. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e11995	Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing for three and a half hours now, and no one has yet given an opinion on the items that are also on the agenda today, for example on the family hospice exemption or on the clarification of special leave for union officials. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: There you were at... not inside!]] – I just wanted to remind you once, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé:... has been given an opinion! Extensive!]] With regard to family hospice, you know the position of the Greens. It was also discussed in a parliamentary survey. We are pleased that the Federal Government is taking steps to make it possible for family members who carry out the death accompaniment to do the same. But, as this Federal Government makes so much half-hearted and half-hearted, it is doing this, too, for, ladies and gentlemen, that is something that will be carried out on the back of women. If there is no income security for people who fulfil this difficult task, then this will not work in the future. This criticism has come not only from the Greens but also from many others. As far as the issue of special leave for union officials is concerned, I can only say that this is a rule which comes from the single government of the EIA and which I and our group have considered to be highly questionable and probably not in conformity with the law in the decades in which it has gone. It is also questionable, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, because there is no whole background to information on what there is for agreements, by-consultations and other negotiations with the trade union. [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: None at all!]] [[Vice Chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: None at all!]] That is why it is very difficult for the opposition to give a flat-rate agreement without knowing the background here. Now on the point that has already been raised several times, so-called group protection insurance for executive staff. Ladies and gentlemen! I know, and you know it, too. It can happen to anyone in this country that he is innocently involved in criminal proceedings. Every single one of you can do that! It only takes someone to deposit an advertisement at the prosecutor's office and to say: I've seen my neighbor steal, beat, or else have something. – There is a procedure, the matter becomes public – with all the concoctions. This ad will then either be returned and the proceedings terminated, or you will be acquitted in criminal proceedings. The Republic is only interested in what happens to the costs incurred by you as a citizen or a citizen. That is why the initiative is quite welcome to create a security for acquitted citizens. But I wonder, Why only for the police? Why not for every citizen, every citizen, who comes innocently into the trap of justice and suffers damage? I would therefore like to make the following request, which is intended to bring about equal treatment for all Austrians: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mrs. Vice chancellor! If you are for the "little man", the "little woman", but also for the big women and big men, then you must take this initiative and not create a privilege for police officers!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12099	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is sufficiently supported and is also sufficiently relevant and therefore a matter for negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Jung. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12123	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Prehauser said earlier that the staff should not be broken over until a court has decided. That was a good observation, but today we have had quite a lot of observations just from the left of this house that went in a different direction. Let me give you an example. Take a look at the website of the DÖW. They write there, for example: The citizens identify themselves with the aim of the demo, namely the protest against the exhibition, but they have doubts at the event and will therefore not take part. I'll tell you: I also identify myself with the goal, I am also against this exhibition, but I strongly refrain from being placed in a right-wing corner. – Therefore, be careful with such claims! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Edlinger, who has left the plenary insolent by now, has made a really unqualified statement today. But he didn't have the heart to apologize for it. The clubman had to perform this. For me, colleague Edlinger is the classic image of a Vienna functionalist of the old class and the old style, who simply cannot understand that there is something he can do wrong. For his human image, his ties speak as well, for there is no other politician who makes comparisons with the political opponent on the basis of animals. This speaks for the kind of thinking of such people who do not have a political opponent, but rather a political counterpart. [[Abg. Kiss: Unfortunately he is also Rapid President!]] That's why it might be very good that he left. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Jarolim has today been appalled by the "punishment police" – who for a long time has been educated, trained and equipped among socialist interior ministers – and has said that one should be happy about the demonstration of the area. I quote from the "standard", a leaf that is really not close to us: "At 3.30 p.m., a street battle begins at the sealed gate next to the Volksgartendisco: From a construction site in front of the entrance, disguised their litters. Parking benches are broken down, dung dome is burned, two cars are totally crushed. The police are setting water-throwers... a." "At last" – also interesting! – "the right still clears the heroic square. ... The Heroes Square belongs to the opposite demonstrator." What a difference between both sides! And who are you flying all the time? – I think it would be time to think about who is putting the Randalians and the preparedness for violence here. Mr Jarolim, however, is happy about this left-wing demonstration, and that is interesting. He may also be happy about the police president Schnabl, who criticizes his own officials. – He could have done better! He would have had the right, yes, the duty to have the mission! – Instead of criticizing them, he should have stood before his officials – or at least after his officials – if he had already been in civilians and had to assume responsibility. I remember Mr. Schnabl, for he has done this before, at the opera ball demo: He also led his daughter to a demonstration in civilians, while his officials were being beaten. – I think such a man has nothing to look for in our executive! It will be time to take action here! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Now say what you really want! You want to do someone politically! They want to get someone away politically! That's your goal, Mr. Jung!]] Then he called Mr Öllinger – I do not know whether he always carries the telephone numbers of all the Members of this House in his book. I don't know anyone else. Who are you calling as a police officer in such a situation? A V-man? A provocator might even go out there, and suddenly the vortex is there – where the oillinger is? [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's incredible! You're twisting things all the way!]] No, there are very contradictory statements made by him, and there is one finding: There is an advocacy for resistance to the state power against those Members of our House. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What should the streetr...! Lauter Schwarze..., that's her goal! And you're helping! That's weird! Which posts will you get for this in the ÖIAG or elsewhere? Are you getting a judge again? In the Jugendgerichtshof?]] You and we all know that we MEPs are particularly obliged to comply with the laws of the Republic. We've made an oath, a vow on it. If this is confirmed, ladies and gentlemen – active resistance to state power – this House has nothing to look for, and the Green Club should be the first to put this cleansing measure in its own field – to its own hygiene in the Green Club, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] In the case of my colleague Pilz, there would be a lot of things to be corrected. It's often not worth it. But one thing I would like to say: He found very, very precise and word for word, he was never in the first row of a violent demonstration, never in the first row. – I believe it, because the agitators are never in the first row, and you have to cut in the first row, because otherwise you get punches!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12241	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12262	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We Socialists stand for dialogue and consensus, and I believe it is in all sense that the Austrians, when they saw the demonstrations on Heroes Square on TV, were, of course, appalled. Of course, the Austrians were just as horrified when the extreme left – and I say this with all the clarity – threw the paving stones on the police. I believe that the path of de-escalation, to which Mr Strasser, the Federal Minister, has devoted some of his speech, as did my colleague, Mr Pendl and Mr Prehauser, respectively, is the right way. Mr. Federal Minister, you said you didn't know it could be Nazi demonstrations because you didn't have any information about this companionship. I think it would be important in the future for the state police to look at this, because if this demonstration had not been, there would probably not have been the other escalation – I am a theorized now. I think it would also be important to praise the police who were standing in the first row during the demonstrations, because these police also protected the rule of law in this demonstration. I believe that these 30 officials who have been affected here – and I would like to address it once again – should give cause for thought, because they have probably suffered very serious physical damage, and that is why we must take all of this into account in the future. Now I come to the law which is in place here today for decision-making. I say it's not very little, I'm not saying it's counterproductive, I'm not saying it's not thought-out – that would be unfair. There are positive rules in it, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor, it is the dying carnation in there, there are special vacations in it. As regards privileges, I believe that it is unnecessary, because a trade unionist can be exempted. It is a further development of service rights. As far as the proposal for a regulation on legal protection is concerned, I do not need to explain this point. That's what we're against because we believe that's an extension. However, I would like to say a few words about the problem, namely because there is a cannibal provision in the system of pain. [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer shakes his head.]] - Oh, it's a cannon in there. [[Abg. Parnigoni: They didn't listen to you as always!]] – I think it would be important to make a small retrusion to this law, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, and everyone would be satisfied. I have had examples of unfulfilled pain payments on the basis of the previous legal status of officials and I can tell you two of them: Colleagues H. and F. of WEGA were injured at the 2001 demonstration, both were in the state of illness for more than 90 days, and were unable to make a pain claim due in the absence of perpetrator investigation. Col. N., member of the reserve company, provided service at the anniversary match Austria Vienna against Bayern Munich. In the course of trailers on the field, he suffered serious injuries and was also in the state of illness for more than three months. The culprit could not be investigated. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe, therefore, that we must strive for a law in which all those officials have a direct right to pain money against the covenant, whether the perpetrator is fleeting, dead or not. I think that would be in the sense of the officials. – I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12303	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12324	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank the officials before I go into the content of the present Novelle Service Law, first of all those who use their lives to carry out their duties, such as the executive officials on Saturday. However, I would also generally like to thank all officials very much for their understanding and for their willingness to participate in the administrative reform. They have thus once again demonstrated that they are certainly among the most open professional groups in the face of all unconventions when it comes to new organisation and new orientations. I would also like to assure them that we will continue this constructive path with the staff representatives. We know that the so-called privileges of officials are in truth the sins of yesterday's politics. One wanted to do it simply and has given rights, such as Pragmatization, instead of a higher salary, or higher pensions. So one has, in fact, been comforted here on a later date, and has shifted problems to later, as Bruno Kreisky, for example, has done with his debt policy. And if you remember yesterday, it's just not fair to talk about privileges today. Dear ladies and gentlemen! What does this 2002 Novelle Service Law bring? Special leave is limited to 12 weeks per calendar year, which has been mentioned many times today, and the service exemption of union officials is being re-regulated. These innovations are probably more just than the old regulations, but a major milestone of this Novelle service law is, among other things, that now officials can go into family hospice. This long-pressed issue was only made aware of by this Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Another privilege!]] It's really time to break this taboo and get the topic into official consciousness. Just as the infant phase requires special assistance for the families, the last phase in a person's life also requires special help for the families and for the family. The fact that the concept of hospice has now also been included in the civil service law is a delightful move that will help and support many people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If Mrs Stoisits thinks that this will only be the case for women, I would like to tell her that women also die and that I know a lot of men who care for her women very sacrificingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12368	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12389	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! After so much emotion that has accompanied us all morning, it is not easy to return to the agenda. I would nevertheless like to try and deal with Amendment 540/A, which is about bringing about a change in the Federal Property Act. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to point out a very serious injustice, which includes the current federal civil servants' social plan law. It has already been pointed out by a number of previous speakers by the Social Democrats that this Social Plan Act also applies to officials and contract staff who are "permanently employed" as a distributed body; "permanently employed" means this term. In other words, workers have the opportunity to choose and take advantage of early retirement benefits. It's not bad for now, it's good. But the problem is that this does not apply to all distributed establishments. It does not apply to the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, it does not apply to Umweltbundesamt GmbH, and it does not apply to the supervision of the financial market, since in these institutions the Social Plan Act is applicable to officials but not to contract staff. That's what we say to Social Democrats: That is an unsatisfying situation! That's unfair! This is a disparity that should be resolved as soon as possible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I say that this circumstance should be eliminated, also because this existing legal situation is deeply unfair, and I would also like to give you an example. In the former BGV II in Linz – it is now called IMB and is the company to manage the real estate of the federal government – there is a leader who is 55 years old and could now apply this social plan. If he wants, he could retire. His staff, who is a secretary there, is also 55 years old, but cannot do so because she is a contract staff member. It can't be! There is an inequality here that would be relatively easy to resolve, and that is why we have tabled this request. What do we want? – We want to: In the contract service law, it is clearly stated that, in the case of a breakdown, all the workers concerned – really everyone! – this social plan law can be used. I do not understand at all that this has been different from the government groups in the committee and has rejected this request. But we still have a great opportunity to solve this problem today. That is why I invite and invite Social Democrats to take part in this amendment in order to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12437	The next speaker is Mr Egghart. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12459	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! First of all: The Green Group has repeatedly pointed out the need to distance itself from violence. It is perfectly clear to us liberals that we distance ourselves from every force from the left and the right. Federal Minister! If you remember, two years ago there was an attack on the Vienna state partyobmann Hilmar Kabas. At the time, the ORF did not publish the tapes that would have been necessary to identify the perpetrators. I would like to ask you now, with all the emphasis, to insist that you get the tapes filmed in the Carinthian street so that you can research out these right-wing perpetrators. On the problem that has been raised over and over again, why this event has been approved, I give the Federal Minister the right to do so. It was perfectly right to approve it. The SPÖ's Judge General said very clearly yesterday that he had approved them; he would not have approved them only on Heroes Square, Morzin Square and Jewish Square, but simply lacked the legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen! A highlight of today was surely the derailment of Mr Edlinger. I don't think you really need to say anything about that. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Not a highlight, but a low point!]] A low point, absolutely right! This quality has been demonstrated by Mr Edlinger repeatedly in the way he expresses himself – in a way that really does not correspond to the dignity of this House! I ask Mr. Party Chairman Gusenbauer – he told us more than a year ago that he will remove the brown spots in his party –: When will he remove Mr Edlinger? [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! No member of the EIA or FPÖ would come up with the idea of marching in any rightful demonstration. That is why I wonder why the rulers of Jarolim or Ollinger must be there during violent demonstrations, and then wonder what outrages are coming. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you sit in a boat, you also need to know who you row with! A few words on the civil service law: I believe that this has really enabled us to achieve an approach in the right direction, especially for the reason that these officials are in the front line and that they have to cope continuously with these demonstrations, which have become very violent in recent years. There we are constantly having the worst injured officials I would like to see from this point of view. I think the right way has been found with this litter. Just as the liberals and the ÖVP have done it in recent years, constructively something has really gone on again. We're not just talking about it, we're doing it too!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12502	The next speaker is Mr Principal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12524	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The occasion for the debate on the 2002 Service Law Novelle in the 100th century. Although the National Council meeting is particularly encouraging for the many public servants. Nevertheless, the current events force us to address events that are shocking and deeply affected. 33 injured police on the last Saturday are therefore instructed to introduce a group legal protection insurance for executives. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is about safeguarding our executive officials, who provide valuable services to the people in the sense of security, and often face enough slanders that turn out to be soap bubbles. To colleagues from the opposition, in particular to those who march at the demonstrations last Saturday: You have to consider which side of the law you want to stand on, whether you understand your mandate as parliamentarians, sow violence, or protect the population from violence. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one side of the medal on the question of security! But now I can return the parliamentary debate to a heart of the Novelle Service Law. The introduction of family hospice for public servants is a clear proof of the social competence of this Federal Government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Human death accompaniment in the usual environment and with familiar people instead of active death aid, as discussed in other countries: We set the specific framework conditions for people to separate from their lives in dignity and in the circle of their families. The necessary steps are already being prepared so that this piece of social justice will soon become valid for all employees, including private workers. However, in order for the social state to remain eligible for funding in the future, it is necessary to deal with the existing revenue. In fact, if we were to continue as Mr. "Bulden-Rudi" and his predecessors have suggested... [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Debt Rudi!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Hello! We made up in the President that we...!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I repeat, if we were to continue as the Lord "guilt-rudi"...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12584	Deputies! We agreed in the President that references to the name should be omitted. I'm asking you to get away from it!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12617	I'm correcting: The debt left us Mr Rudi and his predecessors. But, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to continue this way – and this is what it is about – we would no longer be able to make social reforms. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: What about the fairy tale prince?]] What the finance ministers of the past have left us cost us at least €34 301 per minute or €472,000 in interest and repayment. That's actually the problem. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you know how 5 billion debt increases...?]] But this government has successfully managed, ladies and gentlemen, so that social security and the goal of no longer making new debts can be achieved together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a smooth untruth! You're a fairy taler!]] It is deeply unfortunate that you believe I am talking about fairy tales when I say that we are per minute – per minute! – €34 301 or €472,000 in interest and repayment. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Of course!]] It would be nice if it were fairy tales! But I guarantee you that this amount will be lower because this government understands that it will no longer make new debts. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] In order to ensure that socially just and socially important measures such as childcare benefit for all, equality of workers and employees, "handling new", family hospice, substantial improvements in disability care and disability support are possible, it is necessary to ensure the social state accordingly without making new debts. This government will succeed without having to tell any fairy tales!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12735	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Mainoni. - Please. I would draw attention to the fact that the same thing applies to intermediate calls for a ridiculous-make of the name.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12759	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! So easy it won't be, Mr. Ollinger, that you'll get out of here and tell any stories you're doing a little bit wide to prove your innocence! No, we won't do it that easy! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very, very urgently necessary that there be legal protection insurance for our executive officials. In the face of such Members, as the Greens are, this is urgently necessary! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] One thing you will have to please yourself, and it is also very interesting for Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen to see that. If you don't see it yourself, I'll tell you: Whenever demonstrations lead to violence, Green Members are present. A few examples, just a few examples: 4. February 2000, Heroes Square, Demonstration, violent outcries, several injured. Who was there? – The Green Member Peter Pilz, the Green Member Madeleine Petrovic! Further example: 20. October 2000, Wiener Stadthalle, demonstration, violent outcries, several injured. Who was there? – The Green Member Madeleine Petrovic! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Hand in your pocket!]] Or: September 2000, IMF conference in Prague, thousands of demonstrators, the city center was devastated, shops looted. Who was in the middle of it? – The Green Member Lunacek! Ladies and gentlemen! This is the true face of the Greens! Now the latest example: 13. April of this year, again demonstration, violent outcries, 51 injured, 33 of them executive officials. Who was there? – The Green-Deputy Oilling! [[Abg. Young: And the woman!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm showing you something now! I'll show you something so you can really see what it was about. We're always talking about bricks – no, they weren't just bricks, they were bricks! I made the effort to get these bricks to show you to Baumeister Felsinger, who runs the construction site there. [[The speaker extracts a red brick from paper paper and keeps it in height.]] They are such stones, with that weight that were thrown on executive officers! [[Abg. Unbelievable!]] Mr. Ollinger, look at this. She's here! You should look at what that is: such stones with such weight! Ladies and gentlemen! These are not activists, and they're not left chaots – they're criminals! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Who not only takes into account that there is injury, but who deliberately wants to cause injuries, and who even takes into account that there can be a killing – these are not God's activists or left chaots, these are left criminals, my dear ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Special criminals!]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] They march shoulder to shoulder with these criminals, it's inconceivable! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen doesn't distance himself. And you want to be governmentable?- Oh, my God! – No, never and never are you governmentable! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The criminals must be found, they must come to the prosecutor's court and, of course, they must be sentenced. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Victims and criminals!]] And you – and this, of course, also goes to the address of the Social Democrats –, you, Social Democrats and Greens, should not participate in these demonstrations, but should be on the side of the rule of law!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12926	The next speaker is Mrs Papházy. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e12960	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Much has already been said about the need for the Novelle Service Law. However, I am still waiting for an answer to important questions – perhaps you could get your colleagues to make up for them – on the subject of strike funds. I watched the video again in the morning. He just answered: The government should not be able to estimate how long the ÖGB will last. I call on Mr Vergestnich to: I want him to tell me what's inside. What happens to the funds of the strike fund? [[Abg. Parnigoni: What is this about you?]] Were they used properly? [[Abg. Dietachmayr: That's none of your business!]] Is this one still being taught? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think there should be double-digit billions in there. Unless you may have sponsored demonstrations with them that you sent people to demonstrations. Open this up! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] Your members are entitled – and you write it yourself in the ÖGB performance balance sheet – "to an efficient handling of membership contributions"; "each of our members has the right to receive detailed information on the delivery of his contributions and benefits. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you a union member?]] You have 1.4 million members who are supposed to know this, not only what is in the strike fund and what is happening to it, but also what happens to the 2.8 billion schilling that you have annually in revenue. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you a member of the ÖGB?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you a member?]] That's every member's right!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13096	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to speak on the subject of the current debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13111	The current debate is also about ÖGB privileges, which will be eliminated with the Novelle Service Law, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The fact that the ÖGB practices betrayal to its 1.4 million members has already been seen at the Saving Book affair Otto Zwettler. I don't need to remind you of the details. This savings book has not yet appeared. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] We also see this as BAWAG chief Elsner in the course of the takeover of the P.S.K. with the P.S.K. staff representative. This is the case in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and As a result of the P.S.K. acquisition by the BAWAG said that there the P.S.K. It was cleaned up like a Christian tree. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] He was sued for this, but since he is also SPÖ Landtagsreiter, he was not delivered by the Wiener Landtag. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Talk about it!]] This is how Mr. Elsner, head of the ÖGB bank, deals with his people and with his members! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: On the matter!]] The fact that a model process against BAWAG subsidiary GARA has now been won by the Minister of Consumer Protection only benefits your ÖGB members – the members, the borrowers.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13206	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I ask you to speak on the matter. I have already asked you to do so and I would ask you to follow this request accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13227	Mr President. I talked about the matter. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress once again that it is good that the Service Law Novelle ends in a point with the privileges of the ÖGB-Bonzen!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13264	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13285	Mr President. Dear Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With reference to the speeches made by the Liberal Party on this subject, I would just like to draw attention to the last contribution made by Mr Mainoni, who is here and who threatens the honourable Member in judicial manner: We won't make it so easy for him! This is not your job. There is a court procedure for this, and this court procedure has to decide what this court judgment will look like. Not you have that to decide, and not You have to announce this to the press – as honourable Member Khol has done – and not to other liberals at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: On the matter!]] We are still living in a rule of law that has nothing to do with what you want to happen in matters of law, but it is about what the courts decide in the case. Federal Minister! As a matter of fact, I think I can agree with Mr Van der Bellen that we in Vienna have a very good practice in dealing with demonstrations. In the normal case, the path of de-escalation is the more successful. I also believe that this has been done essentially well so far. But you can't save an accusation in this matter: I think it was quite clear in advance that in the background of the notified "Wehrmachtsdemonstration" there are also right-wing radical forces. To examine this in advance is the task of the State Police. Then the NS Prohibition Act must take effect as a Constitutional Act, and it would not have allowed such a demonstration. This accusation cannot save you anyone in this matter. If one had been followed on the Internet, to which websites connect the links given, then one would have clearly concluded that this is also a right-wing radical background. That is why it would have been forbidden! [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] I am sorry that none of the Members of the Liberal Party have found it worth losing even one word in this demonstration to have been called Nazi-Parols within the meaning of the Re-acting Act. [[Abg. Wenitsch: That was Edlinger!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] No one of the Members has found it worth condemning, that this was also the cause of an area demonstration, and that it is an escalation of violence, which is ultimately to be condemned as well as the cause, namely the right-wing radial slogans. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I think that this view would do you very well. This view would be good for you, Mrs Partik-Pablé, in particular, because you did not even light this cause. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't have to blame me!]] I think one should also consider cause and effect in their interaction. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You don't have to tell me anything!]] It is wrong not to say anything about the right-wing slogans, and it is wrong not to condemn the terror of some stonethrowers. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Paroles and paving stones are...?]] Nevertheless, it is an interaction, and you must have in mind both sides to the same extent if you make other accusations here. In particular, the allegations put forward here against a Member who does not correspond to a legal basis which corresponds to the presumptions must be deeply rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: You hate violence!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] This type of dispute must be rejected. This kind of debate is not worthy of this House. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] This type of conflict is a reflection of the real problem, namely that there has been on the right hand a cause that has finally led to this violence calation, which is to be rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: A harmless man of violence!]] But finally, you can not only look at the one side, you should keep an eye on both sides here. Minister! I am also surprised that some Members of this House – you have called it police evidence today in your speech – receive these police evidences and appear here, but some Members do not receive these police evidences. [[Abg. Young: Where were the rights at the opera ball?]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Where are the rights in the Thursday demonstrations?]] I would also examine this in my own house. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This cannot be the way in which Parliament is informed that some of the Members will receive evidence and will abstain from such evidence. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign.]] That's not good for the discussion. This is not good for dealing with the problem here. I really do not want to agree on the good will in the demonstrations that have taken place before. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Oillinger is...!]] I can only confirm that these were well handled. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Sit down! You're uninformed!]] But if you had acted differently here in advance, then there would probably have been no escalation. Unfortunately, one has left the path of de-escalation here, and then there has actually been violent conflicts. [[Abg. May. Mainoni:... on the formal level...!]] I think you should look at both sides with the necessary distance. It is the right-winging slogans by not apologizing. On the other hand, it's not apologizing to throw stones. It is, however, unworthy of this House to call upon a Member who makes use of the right of demonstration, who makes use of the possibility of demonstrating, and here to burden him with genuinely inappropriate interventions in a floating procedure, which ultimately only contributes to the poisoning of the climate here in the house. That's not worthy of this house.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13546	Mr Egghart spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, I assume that you are aware of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13570	Mr Wittmann claimed that no Member of the Freedom Party would have distanced himself from violence. Mr President, I can only assume that you were not in the hall when I personally distanced myself from violence and all these statements. Stay in the hall!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13600	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13643	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government template, which will be decided today, is the follow-up of civil service rights, which is an important part of our administrative reform. In the Constitutional Committee, the improvements associated with them have been largely positive, even if this has not been expressed in the comments of today's opposition speakers. It is important – and this has been mentioned – to limit special leave, increase the financial compensation for university assistants and lecturers used as doctors, or – also mentioned – to take the family hospice exemption into this service law novel. The assistance provided to survivors after foreign operations is also an important measure which proves that the Republic is well aware of its social responsibility for its staff. However, a gratifying progress – and this was also the focus of today’s debate – is the introduction of a legal protection insurance for executives and financial support for the defence of unjustified attacks. Why the legal protection insurance for executives was so vehemently rejected by the representatives of the opposition in the committee and also here in the House today was to me on 5 May. The Committee's day is not yet clear. At the time, I assumed that it was the disturbed relation of the Greens to the state order, and reminded me of various statements made by Mr Pilz and Mr Oellinger, in which they expressed their sympathy for the Anarcho scene, but also for far-left positions. I also remembered the participation of Green MEPs in the opera ball demonstrations. The events last weekend, ladies and gentlemen, have led me, but also all Austrians, who have seen TV, but the backgrounds. The representatives of the political left have not only sympathized with left-wing chaots, but have also actively participated in violent outpourings against the executive. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What does that mean? What does "actively involved" mean?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Of course he was there!]] The social spokesperson of the Greens, Mr Oellinger, has – and this has already been discussed today – even negotiated an advertisement for resistance to state power, and the honourable Member Jarolim has just "sovereigned" – under quotation marks – with left-wing extremists. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I fear that if individual representatives of your party go on to the extreme left, then not only will the SPÖ, but the whole of Austria may need a second Franz Olah.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13694	The next speaker was Mr Krüger. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13716	Mr President. Mrs. Vice chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wittmann has rightly said here that it is wrong not to do anything against right-wing parallels. – I would very much like to respond to this indirect call and say quite clearly: If someone in Austria in the public area Nazi-Parols such as "Sieg Heil!" The security authorities will immediately have to intervene. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Strasser, this was not a call for you to take an arrest against Mr. Edlinger, because the immunity is known here. [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: But he has been caught up in fresh action!]] In addition, in order not to cause any excitement here, I am not arguing that Mr Edlinger did not express this with a re-acting intent. I would like to say this for the sake of fairness, although this is an inconceivable derailment. On behalf of my colleague, Mr Oellinger, I would like to make one or another comment. Of course, for everyone in Austria, therefore also for him, the presumption of innocence – that is not at all a question – applies, but this cannot prevent us from politically evaluating his behaviour here. And it is quite right what the Vice-President has said here: that the presence of Members, namely the ever-increasing presence of Members in demonstrations, which, of course, then give rise to violent demonstrations, a legitimacy, an apparent legitimacy of these outcries. They are the demonstrators who act violently, then those who say: The Greens are our political defence force, they will do everything they can to keep us from happening. – This is the actual political appreciation. I will certainly not assume to Mr Öllinger that he is participating in this demonstration, in the intention of hurting a policeman – that is no question at all – but he is so-called the green party indirectly also as a protective force of those who exercise violence, which then results in these injuries. It's not a small thing – it's been far too little attention today – and at least 30 police officers have been injured. Mr Oellinger has spoken of a girl who has been hurt by him, who is said to have been pulled on his hair. I don't know if it was hurt, but please, how is a girl who may have practiced resistance to the state power or not, but who has not been hurt, to compare it with 30 injured security organs? And that's the subject. It's always the police who get hurt. Mr Oellinger, however, if he is called to a demonstration, is not able to take moderate action here, but – quite the contrary! – the violent scene sees its legitimacy as well, and that is why it is to be condemned most decisively.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13762	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e13795	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Estimated colleague Krüger! You have at least not read the same untenable accusations as your previous speakers, and at least I would like to acknowledge that. I would also recommend that you do not trade the case of a 14-year-old girl who is unconsciously on the edge of the street, as I think it is wrong to bagatelle the injury of 33 police officers. No injury in the event of a demonstration, in the event of a violent conflict, may be baggagellised. We owe that to all people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would have expected serious members of the government to dispute three findings, and we are still ready to put this out of dispute: First: Together we do everything against violent and criminal demonstrators and demonstrators and discuss whether additional resources need to be made available to the executive and the judiciary. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Secondly, All of us together explain how in the future the approval of neo-Nazi events, not only at Heroes Square, can be suppressed. Thirdly, All of us, together, do not dispute that there must also be pre-judicial convictions in the National Council's plenary session where there are legal procedures. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] I would, of course, have thought these three extra-dispute positions to be a matter of course. None has been done by a single representative of the government parties or by a single member of the government. I regret that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] [[Vice chancellor Dr. Riess-Passer: That's not true!]] Secondly, The Federal Minister for the Interior is the political leader. April, and in the days before, fails, and does not perform his duties enough and not with the necessary seriousness. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Ho! Ho!]] It was known, Federal Minister, that the "comradeship Germania" is a neonazist organization. The information about the neonazist organization is available from the Austrian State Police and the Ministry of Interior. The Constitutional Protection of the Federal Republic of Germany regularly reports to the State Police: to Group D, to Group C and to Divisions I. This information was available! This event has been approved against better knowledge and against the provisions of the Prohibition Act. Minister of the Interior, on your behalf, an unconstitutional event for better knowledge has been approved, and for that you bear the political responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Such nonsense! That's a nonsense!]] In one point, Mr. Federal Minister, you are perfectly right: There must be no undue restriction of the right of demonstration. But why is this only true of Neonazis? Why is this only true for "Sieg Heil!" Screaming flashes for which it is not supposed to apply? [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr. Edlinger has no smoothness! The edellinger has none!]] [[Abg. Gaugg: The edellinger has different ties, but no smooth!]] Let us take your own motion for a resolution and take a very careful look at what you are proposing with this motion for a resolution. Ladies and gentlemen! No one will seriously assume that the Greens of a political – I have to qualify for it in this way – will vote in favour of abuse by Mrs Schweitzer and Mr Kukacka in the form of a motion for a resolution. Even today, we are not prepared to make political self-defamations here in the National Council, but we are prepared to do something else and would like to propose this to you quite officially: If we are talking about how to deal with demonstrations in critical situations in the future, we are talking about whether there should be any new rules – including for executives – and we are also talking about the disguise ban! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not with a worddriver!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Not with you!]] [[Further calls to the liberals.]] Let us also talk about the prohibition of mediation and talk about why many peaceful demonstrators also disguise themselves! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This has nothing to do with violent intentions, but it has to do with the fact that every demonstrator and demonstrator in Austria, especially in Vienna, must expect to be kept through them and records stored, stored and linked to other data. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't tell us any fairy tales!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Peaceful demonstrators, people who exercise fundamental rights, also need security that the peaceful exercise of a fundamental right is not taken as a pretext for police records. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Fink: You need security from violence!]] The Austrian police have no right to file state police documents on peaceful and unspoiled citizens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Happy citizens?]] [[Abg. Kiss: Aggressive Citizens!]] [[Abg. Dr. Martin Graf: Who was peaceful?]] If there is this guarantee, if there is this legal guarantee for the first time, then we can also talk about what has to be done with disguise. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: But not with you!]] And I suggest that we discuss all these issues thoroughly and well prepared in the Committee on the Interior, that each group should submit its proposals in the Committee on the Interior and that we invite the most important constitutional judges of the Republic to evaluate the proposals of the various political groups in the Committee on the Interior. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We cannot accept your suggestions!]] [[Abg. Kiss: We will not recognize you! You will be disguised, my colleague, Pilz!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you take the solution of this problem seriously and if you want the executive to not come in such difficult situations in the future if you do not want police officers to be exposed to such risks in the future, I invite you to accept our offer. Don't give up any quick political shots here in plenary! Take this issue seriously and try to solve this together with us in the committees and then in plenary!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14075	The next speaker is Mr Gaugg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14118	Mr President. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I do not know from which Republic Mr Pilz has spoken, because Austria is an example of a country in which the fundamental rights of the people are respected as in hardly any other country on this earth, and it is also time and again that the Greens will not prevent us from continuing to stand up for fundamental rights in this Republic. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I regret it, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, that Mr Mister Pilz defends left-wing radical elements – that's his being, that's known for years now – but I ask myself all the serious, Professor: [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I didn't hear about that!]] When to Become Do you separate yourself from those elements that are in your party? Separate yourself from the party or the party from those criminal elements! I think the green movement will become a credible one again. Then: Must a dead man be on the street so you can separate yourself from these guys? That's incredible! For me, it's unimaginable that you, as a habilitated professor, are watching this drift, that you are defending everything that happens. [[Complaints with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not at all!]] And it is strange when Mr. Ex-State Secretary Wittmann goes down here and says unprovenly that he finds it immense that some of us here in Parliament receive photo documents from the Ministry of the Interior and the other part does not. [[Abg. May. Kogler: You don't listen at all!]] Do you know what I think is immense? The fact that there are two Members here in the House who have sworn an oath to this Constitution and then find themselves with extremists, with demonstrators outside the rule of law. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is Mr Jurist and Mr Jarolim and Mr Ollinger. Both have gone outside the Constitutional Arch – so that we can discuss it once. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Do you know what I think is immense? – I find it immense that an executive named Schnabl should call Mr. Ollinger. As I ask, Minister of the Interior, that we learn in detail what has actually happened in the telephone call, because it is really to be questioned how it is that one of the top executives is called by one of the most important ones who can be seen in public at demonstrations. [[lively calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] [[Abg. - Yes! It's all being heard!]] That would interest me once as a Member of Parliament. How could that be? You have received a different opinion from him, which is why I am also interested in the justification of this executive official. I am not surprised by the proximity of the SPÖ to radical elements, when I see on this poster the socialist youth of Austria, parts of the trade union of private workers. [[The speaker holds a sheet of paper in the height]] I must say, Mr Gusenbauer: They need massive action. I am not surprised that Mr Ex-Finanzminister wants to be funny inside here with past sparols. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You say that! Exactly, you Nazi book-stabler!]] [[Further lively calls to the SPÖ.]] It would only be missing, Mr Gusenbauer, that Mr Edlinger, who is a tie fetishist, would also carry symbols from that time around. Distinguish You're from this Member, in Wind Seasiles! Then you'll be credible again.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14263	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. Ladies and gentlemen! Since I feel that the level of mood is going up again, I allow myself to draw attention to the fact that the overall situation requires an objective discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14293	Mr President. In front of me, Mr Gaugg spoke, who became known as the one who penned the word "Nazi" in a very positive way in the public and thus made a contribution to the harmonizing of the National Socialists. You can't forget that if he turns out to be here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the whole discussion of how it is led by the two government parties is actually a revelation. It is also as much an escape as a flight: a escape from a responsibility and a escape from a necessary processing and discussion. They are actually pressing around here for an assessment of what it is about, among other things, in this Wehrmacht exhibition. That's the truth! You don't want to discuss the fact that right-wing extremists at Heldenplatz are making a rally. And that's not a place! In 1938 Adolf Hitler announced the "home return" of his home country to the German Empire. This insensitivity on the part of the Ministry of the Interior to allow this demonstration at Heroes Square is a political scandal to be condemned! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It would also be time to discuss the individual crimes that have occurred in the Wehrmacht and why this exhibition is also taking place. It would be time to discuss what this war was, namely a war of robbery and attack. [[Abg. Boy: You just want to distract!]] It would be time for you to finally get out of here and make a clear statement on this and not pursue any criminalisation strategy that comes to the conclusion that the entire opposition consists of only criminals. [[Abg. Young: You can't distract from your party!]] This is your procedure here. That is undemocratic and immoral! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We must listen to the choice of words when Mr Gaugg is speaking to the honourable Member. Van der Bellen says he has criminal elements in his group. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you think the choice of words from Edlinger? Don't talk about the choice of words today!]] What does that mean? Is there no presumption of innocence? What does that mean? How does he even know? How can he even claim that? Or if Parliamentary Schweitzer speaks today of the Green Mob, who is violently opposed to the executive. We have already had a debate, and the Red-Green Mob was the one who is on the verge of violence. [[Lively calls to the liberals.]] This is a selection of your division with which you have political conflicts, because you are pressing around to finally find clear words at the time from 1938 to 1945, to the role of the Wehrmacht and the National Socialism.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14390	Deputies! I only draw attention to the fact that we are currently talking about the Novelle Service Law! I ask you to focus the contribution on the matter!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14412	Mr President. Of course, I will also say something about this, but you yourself see that the course of the debate has also developed in this direction, and I allow myself to say something about it, but of course I perceive and quote your request. Today we have quoted an article in the "Salzburger Nachrichten" on page 5, in which a comment about the right-wing extreme demonstrators at Heldenplatz is quoted and from brochures distributed there. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: The Eternal Trainers!]] It is said that the attack of the Nazi troops on the Soviet Union is called "defense against the Asian counter-revolution". [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It is advertised for a website "Germanes.reich.de" which leads to the German colleague, in which anti-Semitism and – for the ÖVP now particularly interesting – anti-Americanism is spread the worst variety. [[Abg. Vienna: Who rules in Germany? Tell me!]] ==References====External links== The Islamic Middle Ages attack on the Jewish-American civilisation on September 9, 1890. - That's how I could continue. These were the guys who stood at Heldenplatz and criticized the Wehrmacht exhibition. These are the guys who got the approval for this rally. [[Intervocations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In reality, this is a scandal of the Ministry of the Interior that this happened at all! In reality, it's a scandal that you haven't found words for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Or the transparency we saw on TV: "Grandfather, we thank you!" - I'm just wondering what it's for. – That the whole of Europe was put to death in Schutt and Ash, that millions of Jews were killed, that social democrats were killed, that Christian Democrats were killed? I would also have expected comments from the ÖVP speakers and not that the ÖVP would participate in this escape-to-back strategy and in the criminalisation of the opposition in view of its history, where Christian Democrats and social democrats and others shared in the concentration camps. – You can still read so uninvolved, Mr Klubobmann Khol. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Be careful in dealing with demonstration law in Austria! They suspect that every demonstration that goes to the brink of government criticism is ready for violence from home. I can remember that you even have the trade union demonstrations with "May this be at all?" Comments and that you have even questioned the union in its existence, that you question dissidents at all in general, that even General Schnabl, who is trying to deescalate, is pretty slow on your list so that he disappears because he just doesn't fit you. In fact, these are your policies and your political understanding. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I can only say to your requests: No one of us has demanded that no demonstrations take place at Heroes Square, we simply demand that there be no demonstrations of neonazist nature that are re-activating. [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: Yes! Jarolim!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Jarolim!]] They have lost something there and nowhere in Austria! That is why you do not have to put the motion for a resolution. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Oh, that's it?]] In addition, I can only encourage you to suddenly get to the disguise ban: If you make a government proposal, please submit it to the Committee on the Interior, then we will take a look at what you are putting in there and what kind of shock it is. We are now submitting the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: He's never approved one!]] [[Abg. Kiss: This is the current legal situation!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to write the following to you in the main book: I find every injured person sad at a democratic demonstration in Austria, and I condemn it when it comes to violence, absolutely and totally, no matter which side. Do not assume that it would be indifferent even to one single person here if 33 honest-minded officials were injured! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Oh yes!]] It's a cleanery if you mean this. None here is this opinion. And I'll tell you: This is a kind of political approach that is unworthy of this House! This has to be found here once.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14603	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14657	Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr President. High house! The waves have not least gone so high today, because it was not the first time that we were dealing with violent chaots and their hindmen. We discussed this already half a year ago on the occasion of the economic summit in Salzburg, and already at that time similar acts of violence were established, violent chaots and left anarchists randled, violence was applied, people were injured, foreign property was damaged and caused massive property damage, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Cap, I say to you: We are not prepared to go to the agenda in the face of such demonstrations – neither today nor next time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They are always the same left-wing organizations, some of them also your party and youth organizations, who act as co-organizers and demonstrate together with violent chaots, hurt police officers and cause property damage, ladies and gentlemen. I wonder, How long do our police have to hold their heads to bind these violent perpetrators? It really raises the question here of why the organizers of such a demonstration do not have to commit themselves in writing to stand and deal financially with all the problems that have arisen and, above all, with financial damage. Finally, ladies and gentlemen: Who pays for the property damage, then who pays for the police? Again we taxpayers! This must also be checked accordingly: Whoever costs, who causes damage, should pay for it as well! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Whoever causes crimes is to be held accountable for this, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of acts of violence by disguised demonstrators, we once again call for a corresponding prohibition of mediation as an important sign of opposition to violence. This is not a coincidence either, because this disguise is propagated by these left-wing organizations on their homepage. On the Internet it is possible to read and reread, ladies and gentlemen: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] If it becomes hectic, then disguise it, because the state police have always filmed and photographed any kind of political opposition. Let's not give them a chance! Let's protect ourselves, let's hide! Ladies and gentlemen! These are the people who support you and hide behind the disguise to commit violence. But those who demonstrate themselves in a democracy and in a rule of law do not need to be disguised, he claims a fundamental right for himself, which is protected by the state, ladies and gentlemen. Unless he wants to violate unacknowledged laws and exercise force. We do not want that, and we will also be able to prevent it in the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Not a good day for the Greens today!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we call for this clear removal, Mr Van der Bellen, because it is now indisputable that the Greens have this relationship to the violent scene. I will and I will Your party is not generally a totalitarian or even an anti-constitutional one – that would not be justified, ladies and gentlemen – but at last draw a clear line of separation to those groups that do so in your dark circle! [[Abg. Gradwelt: That would be even more beautiful!]] Don't always defend and grant them You do not always protect these organizations and these perpetrators, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would not like to mention what Mr Pilz has already done in this context. It's already been listed today. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: And not to forget the Haidlmayr!]] Mr Pilz! You are an unbelievable representative of the rule of law, you have a completely unordered relationship with law and order solely according to ideological criteria, and the rule of law deserves better and more credible representatives and defenders than you, Mr. Cot! So don't always be so shambles out here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Oellinger! That you get into the vicinity of such groups is not a coincidence either, because you have a certain strategic role here after everything you know. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's just not what the President is listening to!]] You are the promoter and supporter of these relations of the Greens to the left, you are, as it were, the interconnector, the interconnector to the Ebergassinger Group in this scene, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Bures: Mr President!]] Why this is so and that this is still so today, it also shows the fact that Mr. Wurz, your social representative, your Klubansteller, has been a member of the Board of Directors of the "TATblatt" association since 1988! [[Oh, call at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: This is a presidency!]] Ladies and gentlemen! That was the club that called for the refusal of command, who wrote: Soldiers are murderers, and more. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's what Tucholsky wrote!]] And exactly this man who's responsible for this association, ladies and gentlemen, he's your Kluban employee, who's your social representative. Ladies and gentlemen! Who is surprised that it can be claimed that there is precisely this ideological, even humane proximity of the left-wing, violent chaots also to your party? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Van der Bellen, distance yourself from it, because it is high time that You are the high moral claim which you are always applying to other parties, also to other organizations, your demand for a nonviolent and democratic attitude, so that you finally enforce this claim, which you repeatedly demand from the others, once again in your own party, in your own family, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I say the following: Violence from the right is just as abominable, just as unacceptable and just as illegal as violence from the left, ladies and gentlemen! There is only one right, and this right is indivisible: This applies to the left as well as to the rights. That is why there must be no counter-recalculation of events for us either. I and with me the People's Party, we clearly and clearly distance ourselves from the demonstration of these 150 Skinheads and Neonazis. [[Abg. Oellinger: Then why has the rally at Heroesplatz not been banned?]] National Socialist re-activating is unacceptable, is punishable and also subject to the law. We will ensure that this will remain the same in the future. We are not blind on the left or on the right eye, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why we reject it again and decided to reject it to the Minister for the Interior. It has been made everything necessary, it has all happened in accordance with the law. It has been carried out according to law and law and according to constitution, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap! What you are asking for in your motion for a resolution is already prohibited according to the legal situation. This is not allowed now, it must not be approved by neonazist demonstrations. [[Abg. Dr. One: Tell your Minister of the Interior!]] Legal actions and activities must not, of course, be carried out. [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That is why we also stick to what this office says for freedom of assembly. There they said: I haven't experienced yet that an interior minister had come and said he wanted to forbid a demonstration or not. We are not bound by our freedom of choice, we decide by law and law, ladies and gentlemen! And so did this in this case. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Bures: There is also a political responsibility!]] [[Abg. Oils: Don't!]] There is no tolerance for us regarding the willingness to be violent in politics, regardless of whether it comes from the right or from the left. Nor do we compromise with the rule of law for ideological reasons. We are of the opinion, and it remains: The monopoly of violence can only be found in a democracy with the state and with its constitutional institutions! This should be an essential principle for Members of the National Council, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14904	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please. Deputies! I would like to draw your attention to the fact that at 3 p.m., a question was raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14929	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the events in the SPÖ Group, it is really remarkable when Mr Cap is speaking today about the choice of words. Today, a Member of your group has called for a Nazi parole, and only these Nazi paroles, which he subsequently gave of himself. In view of this choice of words, you should avoid a debate on the choice of words today, Mr Cap, because what has happened here is to be criticized. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] The minutes of the meeting were as follows: "Sick Heil!" They wanted to make us aware of the position of the President-in-Office, Mr Cap, Mr Edlinger said that he would have added a sentence. I'm saying that's wrong! This is also addressed to the Austrian Press Agency, which has still not correctly stated in the list of quotations that a slogan can only be read in the Stenographical Protocol, called by a socialist MP, a slogan for which you rightly criticize the neo-Nazis and we with you, because they have walked through the Carinthian road with this slogan and thus set an act of re-activating. They too have "wine salvation!" Called, and you criticized that, and we've been with you. We hate this, and we reject it. But we also reject it – and this is double abominable – when a Member of this House from the first bank series "Sieg Heil!" Blowed out. This is unacceptable, Mr Cap! This Member should step back! That's what we're asking you to do! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This Member is not only a high official of the SPÖ, but he is also a high-ranking sports officer, ladies and gentlemen. He is the president of a football club of the first Austrian Bundesliga. All these football clubs, the Austrian sport and its officials are currently working through events and football games, pointing out that neonacism and right-wing extremism at the football court have not lost anything. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] And what does the President do? The President sits as a Member in the House and screams as a Member "Sieg Heil!" out. Is this the model you want to give to young people? That's terrible what happened here today, and you should take the consequences from it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Your request, which you are submitting today, You've been pummeling so fast now, he's also defaming! They demand a ban on the demonstration of right-wing extremists in an application. Okay, we're in favour, only our request is the right one, because it's more extensive and because you dangerously reflect your request incompletely, because your request means nothing else – we're discussing violence from the left today – as a free letter for every kind of left-wing extremism, for every use of violence, for every stone-thrower, for every Randalian at Hero, and we don't want that. We do not want right- and left-wing extremism at Heroes Square, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e14988	Deputies! I ask for the final sentence – or to interrupt your speech!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15003	I'll finish. – The picture you deliver as an opposition today is clear: Two Members who are close to the violence of a violent demonstration, a Member who has been punished for suspecting opposition to state power, a Member who is "wine Heil!" Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. That's the picture of an opposition as we see it today. As a longtime opposition politician, I am sorry and sad that this important role of opposition will be undermined by you, because I am firmly convinced that: Democracy needs a functioning and good opposition. Today, you have your role, your task of action as an opposition is final!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15055	The list of speakers is exhausted, the debate is closed. The vote will take place after the question has been answered. I am now interrupting the negotiations on this item on the agenda. Short debate on the response to the question 3243/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15083	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Social Security and Generations with the 3243/AB order number. The above-mentioned answer is already distributed in the hall so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker giving reasons for 10 minutes. The opinions of the members of the Federal Government should not exceed 10 minutes. I am now looking for Mrs Mag. Stoisits as an applicant for the request to open the debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15118	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 57 years after the end of the Second World War and 57 years after the liberation from National Socialism, I think it is really high time that we finally recognized resistance and refusal of people against the National Socialist regime, against the intentions of National Socialism, against the intentions pursued with this war. This resistance has been expressed in a wide variety of forms. One of his facets was the refusal of people to serve this criminal regime by depriving themselves of the service in the Wehrmacht. For 57 years, so-called Wehrmachtsdeserteurs have been experiencing a painful story. It is not a story of recognized resistance fighters or heroes, recognized highly-minded democrats. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is a 57-year-old stigmatization and discrimination that these people had to face. Federal Minister Mag. Chief and Secretary of State Dr. Waneck! They both belong to the post-war generation. - I don't know for sure. [[Federal Minister Mag. Main: I was born in 1947!]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, So they were both born after the war. I myself am 10 years younger than the Federal Minister, and I agree that I too have grown up in this country in consciousness that deserters are something that is best not mentioned, in order to express it most mild and positive. Before perceiving this abuse and this problem, I have always felt it something unpleasant. In Austrian politics it has been a tradition for decades not to face this problem – and this is still the positive variant – or even to discriminate against these people, to put them in the corner, to stigmatize them, to make them so mouth-dead. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! You have to mention how many people it is all about: 30 000 people have been sentenced to death by the military jurisdiction of the Wehrmacht – and they cannot be described as different from the science that characterizes them as a terrorist instrument in the service of National Socialism – and most of them have been executed. But there were also those who escaped from this fate. They escaped him because they had not been caught and therefore could not be condemned. Others are alive to him, but escaped as broken people because they were in military prisons or concentration camps and their physical and mental existence was severely impaired. So, although they got away with life, they were and have also been drawn for their lives. The second wound that has been done to them – and that is what all deserters today dare to turn to the public, and it is still a risk, ladies and gentlemen! – is that they have not yet received any positive support. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Even the Republic's intended establishment, namely the National Fund for the Victims of National Socialism, has not yet found a decision to recognise deserters of the Wehrmacht and victims of Nazi military justice as victims of National Socialism. However, I am full of hope that this will soon be the case. So far, these victims have only been conceived with shame and shame. If we take account of the steps that have been taken in recent years, I would like to remind colleagues, above all, that there is a four-party resolution from 1999. At that time, the Liberals were still members of the National Council, and at that time this resolution adopted four parties, all except the liberals. In particular, it aimed to enforce the revision of the acts of the Nazi Military Justice and the abolition of these Nazi judgments in Austria, similar to those already taken in the Federal Republic of Germany. Minister Michalek, then Minister of Justice, has put this stone in place with a question response, in which he pointed out that in our present sense it could not be a crime or a crime because these people were disintegrated from a foreign army and because, from today's point of view, this behavior could not have any criminal relevance in any form. Their conduct was not directed against Austria, but solely against the terrorist regime of the Nazis. Ladies and gentlemen! With this clear opinion of the Federal Government, I have actually considered this chapter to be completed. But you can't wonder enough: It is your answer, Mr. Federal Minister, who arrived with us a month ago and in which you simply and simply inform us that the requirement for the consideration of a replacement period for pension bills is that the restriction of freedom, in this case prison sentence, was not due to a deed – and I now quote you literally – "which according to Austrian laws was punishable or punishable at the time of the visit..." If desertions are not subsumable, this means that you, Mr. Federal Minister, believe that desertion from the German military power is still a criminal behaviour today, because you see yourself in the tradition of 1938! And this, Mr. Federal Minister, really scared me. This is also in complete contradiction with what Mr Böhmdorfer answered in response to a request from me, which went in another direction, following Dr Michalek's reply from 1999. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Especially in the context of the discussions that are now taking place, especially the beginning of a critical reworking of the fate of members of the military power who are still alive today – I emphasize: all members of the military forces – who served and served the people who served this regime at the time – this is also very important to recognize – also allowing themselves to participate in it, whether they are de-reduced or not, it seems to me totally incredible that one is taking an insensible attitude towards the desertors, but not only toward the desertors, such a way – and I really express myself carefully now – that it is insensitive to all of us. Federal Minister! Today's debate should give you the opportunity to speak clear words here. It is not a discussion against you or against the history of the last decades, but it should open up a possibility of making a new start and restart, ladies and gentlemen, in a sense. Feiglings, traitors, fatherland traitors were these people long enough in the eyes of many and in the eyes of the political leaders in Austria. We want to make a small, modest contribution to the fact that at the end of their lives these 70 people, survivors of desertors, who are still alive today and who have been eroded in the context of this research project so far in Austria, still experience at least such a thing as recognition at the end of their lives, recognition in the form of an excuse for the shame they have experienced not so much through the condemnation of the Nazi military justice, but through Austria, through its inhabitants and through Austrian politics as a whole. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] That is why I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to find clear words here and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15180	On an opinion on the subject of this question, Mr Mag. Mainly reported. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15201	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The question raised by Mrs Stoisits concerning the Austrian victims of the Nazi military justice, whose answer is today's subject of discussion, is not the only question on this subject. You, Mrs. Stoisits, took place on 4 May. In April, when I have this right in mind, I would like to ask myself another question on the same subject, so that I would also ask myself why, in the middle stage, this intermediate step is being activated between a question response that has already been made, and a subsequent answer to the question, which is to be done within the next few months. You, Mrs Stoisits, and I know that this issue, as you rightly mentioned, has already been dealt with by the Austrian National Council in a four-party resolution. From this four-party resolution, as you can also see from Mr Böhmdorfer's question, the scientific evaluation of this difficult and controversial subject of contemporary history is unfortunately still open. As the administrative body of this state, I am forced – and this is what you, Madam Member, still as a lawyer – to explain to you in a question the current legal status and the law, as it is currently being handled in my home in a tradition of several decades, namely since 1956, in accordance with the decision-making of the victim laws at that time. From my point of view, it is unacceptable to interpret the current legal practice, the current legal status and the law now in force, to take one's own opinion to the point of view of making it a matter of the Federal Minister's personal opinion. Mrs Stoisits, you and the majority of the House know that I have been in the National Fund of Austria for years and, as I believe, I have been representing my group in agreement with most of those present, and now also as the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Generations, I have taken up my seat in the National Fund in order to carry and deal with compensation solutions for the groups entitled to claim. I would also like to add the words of the current President of the Austrian National Council, Dr. Heinz Fischer, who, according to APA of 11 May, is a member of the Austrian National Council. April this year on this issue said that not every deserter from the Wehrmacht was automatically also a victim of National Socialism. Dear Mrs Stoisits! From 15 years of experience in the Austrian Parliament and also from my contributions to individual debt and collective debt, you know that in the past and today I am still a follower of the fact that the actions and achievements in the past and in the future are to be considered individually and not as collective debt, but also as a collective declaration. I therefore think that the final and satisfactory completion of this issue is not only urgently needed in the 1999 resolution by four parties of the Austrian Parliament, but that it is also necessary to ensure that there is no different law and animosities, and not, as you yourself have, new injuries and traumatisations for populations that have still had to experience this time. It is just like the majority of the House, and probably also the majority of the spectators, precisely because of the reports of recent years on the history of time, which is no longer tabling and is also put on a new basis by opening up the archives in East and West, in connection with the problem of desertion painfully aware that more than 30 000 people, Austrians, have been sentenced to death, and especially during the last days of war. Many young people who have moved into the so-called Volksturm and who have been removed from the Volksturm for fear or other reasons have also died in the last days of the war, have been shot, killed, hanged, so they have suffered damage and have become victims of National Socialism. Those who at the time have seen the reports about the Nuremberg trial or today present themselves with the relevant reports in the media and remember the statements and the presidency of the infamous judge Freisler, provided that they can at all use the term "directors" there, I believe, are not on the point of view that the judicial system was not then in the form of some persons – just as Michalek did – in the evil service of this criminal regime. Mrs Stoisits! I will not expect you to answer another question on this difficult subject, especially since you have always insisted on receiving the given administrative status, and not, as was then mentioned, a political statement, as one that refers to the current legal system and the current legal practice, as it has been practised continuously by the officials of my home since 1956, in the same manner and in the same form. This is because, in general, in these departments and also in the Federal Social Offices concerned, it is still largely the same official status. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that, if you have an honest interest and are interested in the solution, you will have this facet of time history after evaluation by science, taking all your views into account and making a solution to it. This federal government has already brought justice to many interested parties over the last two and a half years, even though it has often not been a full compensation, but only a symbolic one in many sub-areas. But especially for the victims of this difficult time of our history, the symbolic actions of democratic Austria are an important contribution to reconciliation with their homeland or with their former homeland and with the people of their former homeland. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this delicate issue is not appropriate to be abused for a day-to-day discussion, but that it must continue to be addressed with the care that is also found in the discussions and in the responses of my colleagues in the government Michalek and Böhmdorfer, and will be given a satisfactory solution. I'd like it to go faster. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] It is essential for a democratic state such as Austria that, in order to be able to find a scientific solution to this question, it is also necessary to pay close attention to the issue of data protection, which has always been stressed by everyone in the House, in order not to create new violations and new injustices, in order to ensure that, from a day-to-day policy point of view, a subject 55 or 57 years after the end of the Second World War and after the events have been entered, a solution is introduced quickly. In this sense, I wish our current discussions and the completion of this problem the same skill as the Federal Government had in the negotiations with the groups of victims, which are currently taking account of, in recent years and months.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15288	We are now going into the debate. The speaking time for each single word message is 5 minutes. Mrs Mag. Mag. is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Lap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15316	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! The words of the Minister point out that, in the light of the way in which regulations are sought, it is important to wait for the results to be seen how in the present day this chapter is handled with people from this chapter of our history. It is not only the deserters of the Wehrmacht who have been imprisoned for fleeing but also those who suffered from these things because of physical or mental disability, their sexual orientation or also due to established social behaviour, who have been imprisoned and who have not received compensation from the Republic of Austria. Last year, there was an exhibition on how homosexual victims were dealt with. They were taken into "protected" then and had no legal means to combat it. The so-called "protective" or "preventive" was not subject to any temporary restriction, and in the course of this detention the prisoners were tormented, tortured, mutilated and in many cases also deported to a concentration camp. I think it is very important, just as the freedom fighters write, that we find similar rules here, as in the National Fund, in order to complete this chapter, and to give people a small, very small amount of reparation for what they have experienced. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Minister! In this context, I would like to address to you a concrete law which is currently being revised after the assessment has been carried out, the Federal Social Office Reform Act, according to which the execution of the Victim Care Act of the Federal Government of the Central Government, speaks of the offices of the federal governments, comes to the Federal Government, which means that the victims at the same body can claim their compensation, their claims as the perpetrators. There is also a very clear opinion on the part of the working group of the concentration camps and the resistance fighters that this passus of the law is not understandable and that it would again give rise to a lot of discussions, not only because victims and perpetrators might have different benefits with the same officials, because there are different claims, but also because it is important that these people, who are already well-known, continue to be cared for there and, so to speak, their achievements where they have done so far. The debate that is being held today is very important and very important, and I think that in the context of our history, our further development of these issues must come back again and again, for so long, until the victim welfare law also takes the victim groups into account in the same way as the National Fund.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15368	The next speaker is Mrs Fekter. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15388	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr. State Secretary! We do not hold this debate on injustices in connection with desertion, flag-fleet and military decommissioning for the first time. Here in the House, we were very intensive in 1999 and we also took a resolution justified and pleasing from my point of view. Every time, we from the ÖVP have tried to find a very appropriate solution – with great respect for those soldiers who have done their duty and have not been destroyed or who have remained in the war. However, we of the ÖVP also understand that there is an intense desire for all those who have become victims of this injustice regime. In all these debates, we have always voted for a case-by-case decision, never for collective rehabilitation, because a collective mention that all judgments were wrong at the time would create new injustices. I think it is necessary to look specifically at each individual case – for this there was also the mission in 1999 for the research work that has already been mentioned. Col. Stoisits mentioned the German legal situation and meant that we should do it the way the Germans do. Dear colleague Stoisits, in the years 1997 and 1998, the German Bundestag filed files – about 200 in number – including all individual decisions and no general conviction that all judgments on desertion were automatically wrong. It is therefore necessary to examine in individual cases, even in Austria, whether a deserter or a victim for desertion, flag flight, military decommissioning, or whether the individual circumstances have not been such that one can speak of a valid judgment. I am of your opinion that, if there were illegal judgments, people who were concerned are also very likely to be given the social security which we are in principle aware of in these cases. But I refuse to say 57 years after the war that we know everything better now, of course. I mean, it's appropriate to move to that time. After the war, a large majority of the judgments of the military justice were generally declared unfair. What has not been said to be wrong at that time needs to be prepared in individual cases today. The social background you see in it, however, we can definitely support it.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15441	Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I draw attention to the following: There are still two words, then we will vote immediately because the debate on the previous item of the negotiations has already been closed. After the end of this debate, we shall therefore proceed to a series of votes without further debate. Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15465	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Federal Minister, in his question, recognized the fishing questions raised as such. He has, I believe, also answered them in an appropriate and correct way. I would like to address Mr Lapp's statements briefly, and to address her concerns – she meant that the competence in victim care matters should not be shifted away from the Federal Minister – just say that, as a result of the review procedure initiated, the results and, in particular, because of the objections from Carinthia and Styria, the competence in victim care matters should not be postponed in favour of the federal states, although there has previously been a consensus between all nine federal states. The Federal Minister will certainly take this into account and retain this competence so that no change will occur in this case. – As much as information ahead. Let me add a few more words on the statements made by the Federal Minister and also my previous speakers to the question debate in general: Especially in the light of today's discussion, in the morning as well as in the afternoon, and also in the light of Mr Edlinger's statements, this question meeting fits into the political picture and into the political day-to-day work, especially when we consider that Mr Pilz's next speaker will come to the line. At this point I say quite clearly and clearly that I am generally opposed to generalizations. I am very glad that I had the "grace of late birth" and did not have to experience this time, which is always described here, far over 50 years ago. I am very happy about it because I have never come into conflicts of conscience myself. We cannot imagine or suspect in what situations our fathers and grandfathers, our mothers and grandmothers have found themselves in and can therefore, from the distance of the political observation, only make false judgments – in one direction and in the other. I'm resisting packs that say: Soldiers are basically murderers. – This view depends on Mr Pilz. I also oppose the wording: In principle, desertors are victims. – This also comes from the same corner. I don't want to hear here either – actually, I've heard this much too often in the past, especially politically motivated by the left side of this house – that dead soldiers themselves are guilty and similar. I don't think all of this is fair and not up-to-date. There are legal provisions which have not been adopted by this Federal Government, but which have emerged over the last 50 years. There has been the adoption since 1956 of the social application of the legal standards of the Federal Ministry of Health. At that time it was, I believe, still the Federal Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. These provisions require all authorities to comply with the laws. But it cannot be that we collectively acquite and collectively condemn. I'm not a judge. We must ultimately measure all of this in individual cases. I believe that this federal government is acting exemplaryly in the processing of victim justice and that it has cleared and balanced a great many shortcomings in the past, even though perhaps not all. The subversive accusation that has been tried to raise with this request and also with the question raised against the Federal Minister of State or the Federal Government is certainly going to be empty, one only needs to see the data and facts of the last two years, especially in the fair processing and in the search of solutions in these matters. What Mr Pilz will say to me from this speaker's mouth, I know essentially. I've known him for a long time as Donaustadt colleagues. You allow me not to hear this part of your speech.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15506	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15527	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. I'd like you not to listen to any more talk at all. I would also like to allow you to relinquish your mandate. I would like to allow you everything that contributes to improving the quality of this House. But now, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to bring something personal here. My father's passport of military power was "politically unreliable". And he succeeded in the so-called Russian campaign to escape the military service. [[Abg. Dr. Pumberger: Like the father, so the son!]] He was always very proud of the fact that he didn't shoot at all during the war. Two of his three brothers have been disintegrated and, fortunately, not condemned. I am still very, very proud of my father and his two brothers. [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: Is the father also proud of the son?]] I would like to ask many if they could be proud of their fathers in a similar way and would not have to think about whether they could not have done something else. It simply – and that was the problem – was a lot of courage, often also a sense of responsibility to avoid serving in the German Wehrmacht. Perhaps not all of them have come from the motives, but many have been among the most brave and decent in the German Wehrmacht. But no matter what motives the desertors had, one has reached each of them: With every single desertion the German Wehrmacht has been weakened. – That was good for the people, that was good for democracy, and that, although only in tiny portions, reduced the chances of the Nazi regime to a military victory. That's why I'm glad there's been a lot of deserters. And so it would be important that in a democratic republic it is not disputed to honor desertors, to recognize them socially and politically. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But now it is disputed whether individual cases or general recognition. – When was the one time in the 1950s about the accounting of pre-services of SS members disputed? When has this ever been discussed after 1951 when it happened by chance that all the inmates of the Glasenbach camp got the bills on the spot? Why have individual cases such as those of Walter Reder been examined so "predominantly" that a mass murderer and war criminal had all the claims and came to the benefit of Austrian payments in the Italian detention? Deserators still have to ask that individual cases be examined not only towards the end of their lives, because not with a political generosity, but with a natural political recognition, are corrected. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am glad that there are reasonable views in the Ministry of Justice, and I am still waiting for the statement by the Minister of Social Affairs, why he does not join the representatives of the Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Why is there another line here? Why is there a curved, difficult argument here, which must first explain that the German Wehrmacht was the legal successor of the Austrian federal army? Mr. Federal Minister. Do you really want to explain here that the Austrian federal army has found its legitimate successor in the German Wehrmacht with all its crimes? Is this the legal and political basis of your argumentation, or are you among those founding members of the Republic of Austria – the Second Republic – who have just stressed the break, the break between the Nazis and the First Republic, and the important positive break that the Second Republic has made with the National Socialist past? The continuity you construct here is exactly the continuity against which Wehrmacht exhibitions are necessary. That's where the circle closes. Ladies and gentlemen! It is the ones who criticize the Wehrmacht exhibitions, which on the other hand produce continuitys which must not exist in a democratic republic. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why the general recognition of desertors in social law, but also in "punishment" terms – under quotations – is a very decisive answer to whether the Republic of Austria is able to break clearly and clearly with the National Socialist past in one of the last open questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15602	I declare the debate on the answer to the question ended. No applications have been submitted, so there is nothing to vote on. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15626	I shall now resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. The debate in these negotiations has already been closed. Therefore, there are no further words. The rapporteurs do not require a final word. We therefore come to the various votes. [[Call the liberals in the direction of the "Government Bank" Dr. Pumberger:Pumberger]] [[Abg. Dr. Krüger: (in the direction of President Dr. Fischer) We have only invited colleagues to participate in the vote!]] We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we shall vote on the draft law concerning the 2002 Service Law Novelle in 1079 of the Supplements. To this end, Mr Mertel, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled two additional proposals and one amendment. There is also a request from Members Dr Mertel, ladies and gentlemen for a separate vote. I shall first vote on the two supplementary proposals, then take account of the request for separate vote, then vote on the amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Mr Mertel, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Article 2. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Mr Mertel, Members of Parliament, also tabled an additional motion for a resolution on Article 3. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree. – This is the minority. The additional application is therefore rejected. We shall be voting separately on Rule 1(19) as amended by the Committee's report, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this to be a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Mertel, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to Rule 24(3). I am looking for those members of the House who stand up for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall therefore vote on Rule 24(3) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to a sign. – I note that this has been accepted by majority vote. We shall come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it to give a positive signal. – Decision-making shall be by majority. This concludes the second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to the third-reading proposal for a sign. – The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Schweitzer, Mag. Kukacka, ladies and gentlemen, on the prohibition of cumulation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. [[Call to the ÖVP and the Freeman towards the representatives of the SPÖ who do not rise up:Well? Shh, shh, shh, shh, shh, shh. Cap!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (keeping the sacco in front of the face) The SPÖ is for disguise! Do it to you!]] – The request by ÖVP and FPÖ was accepted by a majority vote. (E 131.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kiss, by Dr Partik-Pablé, by colleagues on SPÖ requests for a ban on demonstration at Heldenplatz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion to give a sign. – This is accepted by majority vote. (E 132.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Stoisits, colleagues and colleagues on legal costs in criminal admissibility. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Cap, ladies and gentlemen, on the ban on neo-Nazi demonstrations. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A scandalous request! Left extremism!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign on this. – This is the minority, the request is therefore rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Constitutional Committee to take note of its report 1080 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of the adoption of this report to be a sign. – The adoption of this report shall be carried out by a majority vote. This is what we have done with these two agenda items. 3rd. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1032 of the Supplements): The Federal Act of 1967 (21. KFG-Novelle), 3rd and 4th. Novelle Kraftfahrgesetz-Novelle and the road traffic regulations 1960, the motion 255/A of Deputies Gerhard Reheis, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Act on Motor Vehicles (Kraftfahrgesetz 1967), the motion 266/A of Deputies Dr. Evelin Lichtenbergerer, colleagues concerning a Federal Act amending the Kraftfahrgesetz 1967, and the motion 550/A of Deputies Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues in a Federal Act amending the Kraftfahrgesetz – KFG (1081 of the Supplements) 4. Point Transport Committee report on the Government template (1033 of the supplements): Bundesgesetz, with which the Federal Law on driving licence (Führerscheingesetz – FSG, BGBl. I No. 120/1997 idF BGBl. I No. 2/1998, BGBl. I No. 94/1998, BGBl. I No. 134/1999, BGBl. I No. 25/2001, BGBl. I No. 112/2001 and BGBl. I No. 32/2002) was amended (5. Novelle) and the motion 445/A by Mr Kurt Eder, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on driving licences (Führerleinsetz 1997) and the Federal Act on the Driving of Power (Kraftfahrgesetz 1967) (1082 of Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15795	We come to points 3 and 4 of the agenda, which are being negotiated under one. There is no need for a rapporteur to speak. That is why we are going into the discussions immediately. The first speaker is Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15822	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister – he is not here yet; I suppose he will come soon. Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by introducing an amendment to the KFG-Novelle, which deals with the retiring traffic and the monitoring of the retiring transport in so far as this activity is to be carried out by private organisations in the future. I would like to make it clear at the outset that the Socialist Group will not give its approval to the so-called Transport Safety Package, which is now under discussion, because this package is completely inadequate and even includes measures that are more contrary to the objective of improving road safety than help. For example, the driving licence law-novelle is completely inadequate. Not only that multi-phase training is missing, you have not actually taken over anything from my request, which has a more cost-effective driver's license and more competition in driving school. – This is very bad, because the Freedom Party – Mr Firlinger can confirm this – has already made press releases in this regard, which are also about making driving licence training more efficient, rational and also more cost-effective and keeping more liberal. Perhaps we will succeed next time we take another step. Ladies and gentlemen! All in all, we believe that the so-called transport safety package is insufficient. More than a year ago, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Forstinger, announced as a large package of transport safety, today's decision-making will in no way be able to achieve the high-level objective of then, namely to halve the number of road fatalities over the next ten years. We wish that, but we do not believe that these measures can be achieved. This package is a collection of measures that have been planned for a long time. Necessary EU transpositions and on-going legislation, the acquisition of penalties, but not consciously, but only on the basis of euro-transitions, are included here. Of an actual package of transport safety, ladies and gentlemen, which is targeted and consistently combats the main causes of accidents and implements targeted measures by law, this proposal cannot be spoken of. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are once again the unthankful heritage of your predecessor's policy of announcement, which has forwarded this substantial package to Parliament. I therefore ask you to: Grabs It speeds up the really necessary measures in the area of the elimination of accidents, the technical improvement of motor vehicles and the improvement of legislation on safer behaviour of road users, measures developed by the Transport Safety Board and by many experts under the National Transport Safety Programme. This concerns mainly the multi-phase training of the driver's licence, which was initially included in this package, but was then removed for our suffering. Obviously there are still disputes in this regard in the coalition government. It's a shame it's not included. I just hope, Minister of State, that it will be the next time. We also expect you, Federal Minister, to present a real transport safety package to this House as soon as possible. The SPÖ is also ready to cooperate constructively. We don't have any problems with that. Of course, there are some points in the package that we would like to agree to, that is right. I also stressed this in the Committee. But since this is not coordinated separately, we cannot accept the overall package in this form. In any case, we are ready for further talks. This has already been demonstrated by the motion for a resolution in this House. I am glad that we have now set up a subcommittee on drugs policy in road transport. I really invite everyone to cooperate efficiently and well in this subcommittee. We will hold the constituent meeting tomorrow morning at 8.30 a.m. We will make a serious effort to come forward with a compromise proposal that is really suitable and leads to what we want in common. It is now about developing a common solution in the Subcommittee. The SPÖ is ready for this, but also the coalition parties must be ready to do so. We know it's a difficult subject, but perhaps we can find ourselves together so far that we really do get out of the way with a two-thirds majority that we all want to get out of the way together. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15886	Mr Eder's request to the Transport Committee's report has been presented in his key points and is properly supported. He is therefore involved in the negotiations. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15949	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. Voluntary speaking time limit of 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e15970	Mr President. High house! Federal Minister! I regret that the SPÖ does not agree with this transport safety package. I think this is totally unjustified, because all the measures that are included here are an important one, I would like to say almost, milestone to increase road safety, to our goal of halving the number of fatalities in Austria by the year 2010. I do not want to address the individual points at all. They speak for themselves. They've been known for a long time. There is no point on which one could say how Mr Eder has just done so that he would even oppose road safety. That's completely absurd. For multi-phase training: This one's coming! However, it has never been included in this government document, but multi-phase training has been considered as an application of its own and as its own presentation and will deal with us in the coming months. Multi-phase training will then be introduced as a government template and discussed and dealt with in the Transport Committee. I'm convinced that we're coming to a good end here. However, I very much regret one point, Mr Eder – which is really a point that is opposed to road safety – namely that the SPÖ and the Greens have so far refused a sensible regime on the subject of "drugs at the tax". That is still a big problem! The SPÖ has so far rejected all reasonable proposals, without making a single request in this regard! [[Abg. Eder: You didn't talk to us!]] There is no proposal, there is no legislative measure that would have been presented by the Social Democrats or by the Greens in this regard and which could have been useful in the Transport Committee or in party discussions. That's the truth. So if someone here has prevented something that would have led to more traffic safety, then unfortunately, I must say in this case, the Social Democrats and the Greens. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But I see a silver strip on the horizon. I hope that the Subcommittee will come to a sensible conclusion. We will not let it go, and we will put a new request here before the summer break and put it to the vote here. [[Abg. Eder: We're not either!]] Then, ladies and gentlemen, you will again have to confess colour on this subject. It is not just the security experts, it is not just the foreign examples that point out that we have long been a developing country on this issue. Even the Court of Auditors, Mr Colleague, pointed out in his last report on the state of Salzburg on the subject of StVO that it is absolutely necessary that legal measures be taken against the threat of addiction, because, as he literally writes, the bodies of road surveillance do not have the opportunity to identify the risk of addiction on the spot, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Eder: Because it's not possible! That's exactly what we know!]] The Court of Auditors writes this and requires the legislator to put in place a very concrete legislative measure to address this problem by means of blood and urine analysis. I very much hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will gradually see the reasonable people, not just the hardliners, not just the protection patterns of drug users, but that we will come here to a reasonable solution in the interests of road safety. [[Abg. Eder: Both!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16054	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger. She's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16089	Ladies and gentlemen! The package on road safety, which is available to us today, looks a little bit like a truck with collectibles, that is, a truck that has a lot of different loads. It is among them a small box with tasty apples, there are piles of styrofoam – that is, air, and not much else – and unfortunately there are dangerous goods in this cargo. I would like to address this one. We would have dealt with these extra in the next item, but unfortunately this regulation has not yet taken effect here. Ladies and gentlemen! Under this "box with apples" I would book the "section control", i.e. the possibility to carry out speed controls in a new way, which also makes notorious exceeders of speed more accessible to punishment, which I consider very important and necessary. With regard to the dangerous goods contained in this charge, I do not have the time and opportunity to really list everyone. I am only grasping out the particularly dangerous ones, that is, those of the highest classes of dangerous goods. First of all, the subject of data protection is included in the cargo. – The private management of assessment data in non-anonymized form is not clearly enough to allow anyone to be sure that his data cannot be misused. Secondly, a liberalisation of the sample marks was discussed, which in this form is a "sugarl" for the respective economy, but for road safety the opposite of what should be contained in a package of "traffic safety". In short, this form now allows you to travel longer, throughout the whole weekend, with sample marks. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] If you want to describe this to me as a contribution to road safety, you have to put forth a great deal of effort to convince anyone who knows whose pressure this has most likely taken place. [[New call for intercession with the liberals.]] However, the most dangerous goods in this whole package are the problem of overloads and the question of how they were dealt with in your proposal. – Ladies and gentlemen! I agree with you that you at least accepted the subject. [[Abg. Sodian: Thank you!]] But the regulation itself already has some very large horse feet, which I would like to point out. First: In my request, which was also for negotiation, I therefore called for zero tolerance for overloads because, according to the Court of Auditors, we have suffered enormous damage from these overloaded trucks. In turn, they want 2% tolerance. 2 per cent with a 40 ton are 800 kilograms, and 6 per cent axe load exceedance means 26 per cent more, additional use of the road. [[Abg. Sodian: 800 kilograms!]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] – Sorry, this is not an addition, as you might know; it is not simply an increase in weight or damage parallel to weight. We have discussed this in committee for a long time, so that you too need to know. Ladies and gentlemen! The The second is the following: With your opening of the advance and follow-up for 45 tons, now fully fixed, the fear among transit critics that this will lead to a gradual legitimisation of the increase of a tonnage limit is very legitimate. Ladies and gentlemen! We must not go this way, otherwise we will have a disadvantage, a competitive disadvantage, with regard to the protection of the habitat vis-à-vis Switzerland, which will cause the roads to be broken in us...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16148	Mrs Lichtenberger! The folder of the green club has asked me to tell you that the speaking time is 4 minutes – and they are already over. I ask you to take this into account.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16164	Since the light didn't shine, I didn't pay any attention to it. Once again – last sentence –: That legitimization of the 45 tons would be a disaster! When it's introduced, we're losing a lot of protection for ainrainers. Thank you. We will not agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16197	The next speaker is Mr Firlinger. The watch is gladly set to 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16218	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I don't like to use formulations like "quantity jump" and "milestone", but in the transport safety package and in the novels to the driving licence law, to the motor vehicle law and to the road traffic regulations there have really been a lot of positive changes. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a reform package which started a few months ago and which has now led to a very satisfactory conclusion. One is never finished with these materials, that is quite clear, Mr Eder. I can therefore re-delegate the SPÖ: That's actually nothing!, not to share at all. – Mr Eder! If you look into the matter and see what's in it all, then you'll notice: A lot has been done here, quite clear. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The absence of speed limitation or the increase from 80 to 100 kilometres in training, the removal of the traffic psychological examination for moped drivers and the introduction of the free choice of the test site in the driving school sector – these are the decisive and essential liberalisation steps. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] This will relieve the driver's license advertising in the future financially. This has been done by this coalition government, which has not brought about an earlier government. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mr Eder! So you can say – I believe you do –: My request has not been followed. – This is the lot of the opposition parties. He was quite remarkable in some respects. I also believe that a further step must be taken in the field of driving schools, which needs to be negotiated, which one still has to think about, for example, when it comes to taking certain shackles from the driving school teachers. Ladies and gentlemen! At the moment, it's like this: If a driving school teacher who is employed at a driving school quits and leaves the company, he loses the teaching qualification. This is, of course, a recent relic, and we have put it on top of the agenda for further negotiations. We're not finished yet, we haven't finished our work yet. With regard to the modes of transport and with regard to these points, we are actually never finished. No government is ready forever and can say: Now we don't do anything for the next 20 years! – Things are in the river, and so it is, ladies and gentlemen, obviously also in this area. What will be essential, however, is the following question: How will the major opposition party turn to the next subcommittee meeting on the subject of the under-state position on drug use in road transport? – You know, ladies and gentlemen, I also believe... – Put under punishment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger.]] [[Abg. Reheis: Yes, this is already forbidden!]] I said, ladies and gentlemen, that I am punishing. I note that in the SPÖ nervousness breaks out as soon as this issue is addressed, for one reason: There are quite reasonable real politicians among the SPÖ transport politicians who actually want to punish this. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Yes!]] For example, Mr Eder or Mr Parnigoni, I accept this in principle. But there are also the casters and the caps and as they are called, all who believe the hackers more than the Eders and the Parnigonis. That is a fact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intercession with the liberals.]] On one point I am very much with Mr Kukacka. This is because the time is coming to be known in the color, because we want to deal with this matter in committee, we want to say good-bye to them, we want them here in the House and we want to do this before the summer break. The summer is an accidentsome time, a time when traffic is suddenly increasing, and of course there is also a large number of drug drivers on the way. In the interests of Austria, we would like to propose a bar in the interest of this transport safety package, which thus still achieves a very substantial improvement in quality. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, stop driving this zigzag course and say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] Yeah, actually, we want to, but it's like that! – Bring Instead, you agree with constructive proposals, and believe, ladies and gentlemen, above all, not the hackers!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16333	Mr Schwamlein. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16355	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Firlinger, a sentence in advance: There are no hectic reactions on the part of the SPÖ when it comes to the discussion of "drugs in road transport". But I ask you to do the following – and this is what all the ladies and gentlemen should see; we are only starting tomorrow with the formation of the Subcommittee: Give this subcommittee and Parliament the chance to work out something with the head and not just to argue about the belly! I think that's an honest will. Go You're after that! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Two legislative bodies. To the motor vehicle law: On the one hand, I am very pleased that an initiative by the Salzburger Landeshauptmann deputy Gabi Burgstaller has found precipitation and that the midwives will have the opportunity in future to use the blue light when they are on their way to birth, and that this will achieve more traffic safety. [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: But he voted against it at the third reading! Against the initiative of the colleague Burgstaller!]] Mr Schwarzenberger! I now see what I see as positive and as a development in the right direction. This does not mean that the whole novelle is given our approval, because there are important points that have not been fulfilled. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Schwarzenberger.]] – Mr Schwarzenberger! Listen to me, you can learn something! A second important point: There is an EU directive with 1. January 2003 enters into force and provides that buses may have a length of up to 15 meters – and not as now 12 meters – and that everyone with a longer bus must apply for permission from the head of state. It was a shock that had taken place up to that time. The fact that the longer buses can be driven by in-power steps of the motor vehicle law before the EU Directive's in-force steps is certainly an improvement for urban tourism, because many visitors to our capitals and the federal capital are on the road by bus. But now, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about road transport. Many of you can remember that I have brought to this house a project that the Bundesrealgymnasium Mittersill – the visually distorted zebra strips – has developed. I have dealt with this matter – a fundamentally reasonable, good idea, which in principle would have needed nothing other than what is happening now, namely a regulation empowerment that such an experimental project can be made – the first Transport Minister of this GP. I explained to him what it was all about – no answer. I then dealt with it with his successor, the Minister of Transport Forstinger, and repeatedly addressed it for months – no response. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Swirl]] I then referred this problem to Minister of Transport Reichhold, and now it comes at least so far that the optically distorted zebra strips can be applied as experimental surfaces with the in-force steps of the StVO – with a negative side-effect, ladies and gentlemen: The students have developed this project in the sixth class of the gymnasium. Until the STVO enters into force until a Minister's decree can be made, they have made Matura and left school. Faith You're telling me: The confidence in politics that one can implement an idea relatively quickly has completely lost these students. But I am glad that you can do it at all, and I hope that in the presence of the Minister we will soon be able to apply these visually distorted zebra strips in Mittersill in order to make a reparation really in the truest sense of the word to these students.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16427	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. He's got the floor. The clock is set to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16448	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Schwemmlein! I hope it will follow the Matura class another class, and this zebra strip will also serve subsequent school classes, even if the current Matura class will no longer experience this as a school class. I think that's safe, or is the school locked up? [[Abg. Son of a bitch: One has nothing to do with the other!]] - I think so! I don't think you should give up. Just as this subcommittee will finally be set up tomorrow, this is also a process under the motto: Steter drop hollows the stone. Now we may finally find approaches and arrive at a solution in this important matter before the summer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] But perhaps some details of the comprehensive transport concept: Of course, it involves an intensification against autopser. The organ mandate is increased to 210 € for tempo probes. The introduction of the "section control", i.e. a so-called speed measurement in clearly defined areas such as tunnels, is a new but very important change. Furthermore, the penalties for the non-removing of the safety belts shall be increased: You're being tripled! I myself have only recently been affected and can already calculate what this is all about. Among other things, we are also self-employed, not only as Members, but also as drivers. That's what happens to us again and again. What is also important in this context is that this law imposes an absolute ban on driving instructors on driving licences from 17 and on driving instructors. I emphasize that. There are also improvements to protect pedestrians. The law provides for a higher penalty to be paid in the event of breach of the obligation to provide protection. All these and other measures are designed to ensure road safety and are regulations for car drivers who are clearly under their own responsibility in order to protect the other car drivers, as well as all other road users. But it would also be fair and fair if you treated all the handlebars at the same time and took measures – I emphasize, all the handlebars! I believe that the tomorrow subcommittee will also provide in future a legislative framework for those drug suspects we have to deal with. There were still some things to mention, for example, the driving licence law. The free choice of the place of examination and the driving schools is also very important because there is a cost transparency for those concerned. But above all it also opens up new opportunities for professional and time in order to create the driving test. It would be nice if you would also agree with all these measures to the safety of people in that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16493	The next speaker is Mrs Binder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16514	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Zweytick! Once again, to understand: Of course, the school remains. But it's nice to work out a project and then it can lead to success. I mean, this polemic really has nothing to look for. It is about young people who have engaged in social policy in the sense of road safety. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Zweytick: They succeeded! You just have to agree, Mrs Colleague!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to deal with the driving licence law, with a novel under the title "essential changes on road safety". I do not see it quite as it is because, on the one hand, Mr Eder's request for the liberalisation of driving schools and the training of driving licences was rejected by the government parties, with this request mainly involving two things, namely to significantly reduce driving school costs and to facilitate working conditions for driving school workers. Too bad, I mean, because this too is a call for the Young ÖVP-Oberösterreich. On the other hand, the present government template, which, for example, means the free choice of the place of check, is progressing. The minimum training for the acquisition of the moped card is of course also an important and necessary step. However, I would like to remind you of a comment from the Board on Transport Safety on the topic of multi-phase training. Othmar Thann said in this context: "In the course of the planned changes, we call for the involvement of a second stage of training. In the previous driving licence training system, the risk teaching is lacking. Young people in particular are therefore disproportionately involved in road accidents." Two facts about this: Any second fatal accident of the 18-20-year-old driver is a single accident. In Finland, 50 percent of accidents were reduced by the introduction of this multi-phase system within two years. A second point was made, namely the withdrawal of the traffic psychological examination in mopeds. On the other hand, there are also massive objections from the board of trustees. It is an essential prerequisite – I quote – because the moped is by far the most dangerous transport. In total, ladies and gentlemen, there is to the foreign exchange: Driver's license must not be a luxury, no consent from the government parties. In our view, the aspect of increased road safety is not included in this amendment, and therefore we will not agree to this proposal either.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16558	The next speaker is Mr Sodian. Speech time: 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16579	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Eder, I don't understand what a draft you've read. You're talking about an inadequate, substanceless package that the traffic safety package is not inside. As far as multi-phase training is concerned, you know very well that we've postponed it, that it's still coming. My colleague, Mr Binder, has repeated it once again, but it has not been postponed. There are very essential things, about 30 points in them, many points that are also supported by you. Please tell me a point which you reject or which does not speak for the introduction. We have received a lot of improvements, intensifications and additions. I'm just thinking about the ABS system over 3,500 kg. It is a very positive thing that the vehicles must have that now. We've already discussed this with the blue light. We have sectoral speed controls – this is a very good thing in the construction site and tunnel sector. The 40-tonne limit is contained, which is very positive, even if Mrs Lichtenberger is perhaps too far-reaching. There will be only more than 800 kilograms of overload in the future. It may be that this is still too much from your point of view, but that is a significant improvement! You know that we have had the problem so far that we have not had any means of enforcement of the limit, because it was only possible to stop the vehicle if there was a risk or if the road safety had not been given. Now we have the legal framework for this. That's a very important thing. The abolition of the Transport Psychological Opinion has already been mentioned. The costs of 2 500 S are not in any proportion to the benefit. The 80/100 km/h restriction on training journeys is a very positive thing based on practical experience. Young people should learn to move on the highways. A positive thing is also the 18 months or that you only have to do the practical driving test after this period. I appeal to the Social Democrats and above all to you, Mr Eder: Please, let us take the opportunity to make a little progress in the subcommittee before the summer! I got a paper yesterday from the drug professionals' association. I'm sure you got this paper, too. The association itself speaks of 400 000 to 500 000 people taking drugs on a regular basis and yet participating in traffic. So these are not outsiders, they are not individual cases, but 400 000 to 500 000 people. I'm appealing to you from the SPÖ: Let's get together. The thought phase should be as short as possible. Mr Eder, you spoke in committee about the need to think about it. – I ask you to keep the phase short so that we can make a little progress in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16630	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16652	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Federal Minister, right after you took office, you sought contact with Tyrol, Salzburg, to the Western Länder, in order to discuss also transit problems and traffic safety issues concerning these countries. And I have to tell you, Tyrol – it has sounded that way in all press releases and press releases – has put great hopes in your statements that you have made there. Unfortunately, I have to say, now that some time has passed, the Tyroleans are disappointed. They have disappointed Tyrol and the Tyrolean population. Unfortunately, you have not complied with your commitments made there. With regard to the concerns of the transit-plaged population, the Tyrolean population you first showed understanding and then demanded a unanimous decision from the Tyrolean Landtag in order to strengthen your back in Brussels. They have also received these unanimous Landtag decisions from Tyrol and Salzburg. However, I must say before the cock had crept three times, that you have informed Tirol from Brussels – even before the meeting with EU transport ministers – that the 108 percent clause fixed in the transit agreement cannot be kept and that we Tyroleans should be happy if the ecopoints regime is maintained. – Minister! I ask you here: What are your commitments made in Tyrol worth? Tirol and Salzburg have believed that they have made four-party requests concerning cross-country transit, the protection of the sensitive Alpine region and the maintenance of the ecopoints scheme and the 108-percent clause and have decided unanimously in both federal states. But obviously these multi-party and four-party decisions you wanted were no more than an employment therapy for the Tyrolean and Salzburger Landespolitik. Federal Minister! Another question: Today, in the "Tyrol daily" I have read two different statements on transit: the yes in Italy, which Mrs. Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer obviously achieved with Gianfranco Fini, in contrast to you: Lunardi versus eco. The transport minister Pietro Lunardi spoke to you at a Formula One meeting. It is also interesting that you use a Formula 1 meeting to discuss transit and ecopoint issues by the way. They say – I quote –: "There was no progress, although our positions are contrary." – I cannot imagine that there can be progress in contrasting positions. Federal Minister! It is the dialogue with Germany, Italy and France to enter into a positive lobbying for the transited population in the western states. I may ask that the government act. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16703	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16724	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A comprehensive package of transport is being adopted today: the amendment of the Road Traffic Act, the Road Traffic Regulations, the Safety Goods Transport Act and, ultimately, the Driving Licence Act. ==References== A number of changes are made to driving licence law Novelle. In total, there are 18 points, and these 18 points are particularly important for road safety. I would just like to make an example of one point, namely the change in the purchase of the moped card. This is particularly pleasing for our young countrymen. In connection with the moped card, I would point out in particular that now for the mopeds from 15th to 15th. The age of life is no longer necessary for a traffic psychological examination. In return, a theoretical training of 8 lessons will be introduced to increase road safety and safety of our young mopeds. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This measure is particularly welcome, as on the one hand, road safety is increased and on the other hand, the financial burden on our young road users is reduced. This change of law and the adaptations of this novel to the driving licence law facilitates the practical implementation, but above all traffic safety is the first priority. We are happy to give our approval to this change of law.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16761	The next speaker is Mr Kiermaier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16782	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only a few thoughts from the economy on this subject, namely driving school and the test vehicle marks. Ladies and gentlemen! If one has been following the debate on the trade order lately, one had to come to the conclusion that the over-over reformers are currently trying to free everything that is just going on: Every regulation belongs away, we don't need it all anymore, it's no longer modern, and everyone who thinks differently has already put Patina in place. – That's about the attitude. But there is an exception, and this exception is called driving schools. It's just closed. And that's what I can't understand. Barriers and shields are being built, and so it can't be. There are, for example, market access restrictions for new driving schools. If there is a restriction of this kind in another industry today, that would be unthinkable. In the gastronomy, for example, one farm locks up after another, and if there are still so many that have to lock up immediately: Nobody cares! This is just the free market economy, how it lives and lives. And then, at once, there is an industry in which quite different standards should apply. That is something we absolutely cannot understand. It just can't be that way. New considerations need to be made. It can't be that an industry can direct it. I'm just wondering: Why exactly the driving schools? There is no argument for this! Maybe one or the other says: Well, they need a lot of cars, and they cost a lot of money. – Ask a bus operator what means he has to spend so that he can buy his buses! A bus costs on average 5 million schilling. There's no one asking whether they're sure they're running accordingly. But at the driving school, that would be an argument at once. Or, as Mr Firlinger has said, the drivers: How can anyone have a skill that is bound to a farm? If one learns the profession of the cook somewhere and then changes to another company, the boss says: I'm sorry, but you didn't learn from me, you don't have a chance!? – That’s not how it can be! Ladies and gentlemen! What, for example, is the ability of a widowed and sent company? The widow didn't learn the subject either. Today, in the time of the personal societies, the GesmbHs and so on, it is absolutely impossible to rely on this argument. This is a typical sign that it is lobbyism. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Another word on the sample marks. That's just the time span too long. 72 hours or three days – you must first explain to me what a meaning this should have. I would just like to tell you that this is in the passenger car area to the detriment of the rental car companies, and in the truck area you can move a lot with a three and a half ton for three days. For example, if you look at the furniture companies that provide these small trucks: If someone buys furniture, and these small trucks are assigned to him, then the company must register these trucks and bear all the costs. And the next one takes a sample mark, drives with it for three days, and has no cost. It can't be like that! We are also against this law for these two reasons mentioned by me. We're very sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16826	Mrs Schoettel-Delacher is the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16847	Mr President. Minister! High house! Unlike the opposition parties, I very much believe that these government documents will implement essential elements of the national transport safety programme. Among the most important is – we have already heard – the measurement of average speed, a method that is also applied successfully in England and the Netherlands. Further measures are the increase in the penalty for the violation of the belt obligation from €7 to €21, as well as further clarifications for the child seat application. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, a study by ARBÖ has shown that belt morals have fallen to a dangerous level. About 55 percent of drivers and passengers are no longer sniffing, and 83 percent of the passengers in the fund also give up on the life-saving belt. These figures are alarming, especially when you know that some fatal outcome of an accident could have been avoided by hooks. This is not just about increasing the organ mandate to 21 euros, but rather about an education and awareness campaign and an increased control of the belt requirement in the future. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the future, pedestrians will also be increasingly protected. The penalty in the event of failure to comply with the ban on protection crossings is doubled to 72 euros. As regards the increase in road safety in trucks, two measures are particularly worth mentioning. First of all, reflecting contour markings to improve visibility and recognition can be fitted without approval in the future. So far, this required approval by the Heads of State, which was far too cumbersome. This is a simple but extremely efficient measure to increase road safety. Secondly – and this has been discussed more often here – finally clear criteria have been developed as to when the risk of road safety actually occurs by overloaded trucks, which means that the truck can also be stopped by forced measures. There are still many points to mention from these government documents, such as very sensible regulations, which take more account of environmental protection, blue light approvals for midwives or the introduction of the EU mark from 1. ==References====External links== There are, however, two important points that must be fulfilled in order to complete this transport safety programme as quickly as possible. On the one hand, these are the questions that clarify the entire area of student travel. For this theme complex, it was decided on the basis of the importance that an own survey will be carried out. Secondly, it is the clarification of the delicate issue of the problem of drugs in road transport. A subcommittee has been set up for this purpose. I hope that this will quickly find a viable solution that takes due account of road safety and adds another important point to the transport safety programme.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16907	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Talk time also 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16929	Mr President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, we are not a fundamental opposition. This package of laws contains some important points that we believe are good and important for road safety. For example, the point seems to me to be that the penalty is increased from €7 to €21 when the belt is not mounted. There are studies that prove that there would be 30 percent less traffic deaths alone. It is also important that truck drivers be set up at pans of light vests, and it is also important that the "section control" is introduced to increase tunnel safety. Federal Minister! Mr Eder said in the committee that despite tunnel accidents, it is time and again that the ASFINAG turns off every second light in the tunnel so as to save 20 million schilling a year. And that in view of the problem we have in Austria with our tunnels! Federal Minister! I think it would be a failure to give the ASFINAG 20 million schilling so that you can buy color and remove the dark tunnels, which may even be present in Carinthia, in the pack and everywhere, inside. And finally, by regulation, you can ensure that the ASFINAG is prohibited from turning off any second light. Ladies and gentlemen! This is not a political political polemic and should not be understood in this way either. But if I turn off every second light to save me 20 million schilling, and every second weekend we have a tunnel accident, then, I think, we should take up this proposal from sides of the opposition anyway. This is a proposal by Mr Eder, who is our transport speaker, and I believe that this proposal is very important and is also correct. One of the essential points – I am leaving a lot behind now – has already been raised by Mr Kiermaier: I cannot imagine that the ÖVP economic party – at least it calls itself an economic party – supports these blue markings, the three-day sample markings. I can't imagine the FPÖ doing that either. Mr Kiermaier has already pointed out: This will promote black and black entrepreneurship. For 72 hours one can drive around with a 3.5-ton truck in the future and can transport everything possible on the weekend. I don't know why you didn't meet us. Grosso modo can be found that 80 percent of the law is actually in order, but if you do not meet us, then we can, because there are no separate votes, not agree to this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e16980	The next speaker is Mr. Ing. Reichhold. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17001	Mr President. High house! I would just like to comment on some of the points of this comprehensive programme. First point: In my view, multi-phase training is an important measure, but it must not lead to the fact that driving licences are expensive for young people. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That is why we are still conducting negotiations with insurance institutions, which have been very willing to participate here, and I hope that these discussions will also be successfully concluded. On the other hand, there is still a need to vote with some federal states. There are also conversations. However, we are now trying to prepare a government paper which can then be decided in the next Transport Committee, and I hope that this issue will be dealt with before the summer. The second point, ladies and gentlemen, is the question of tunnel safety. I think Mr Marizzi has just mentioned this. We are concerned with examining in depth proposals that are useful. There is the Tunnel Commission, as you know, and on the basis of the discussions of this Commission, a number of suggestions have already been found in this bill. What's more light in the tunnel, we know it's very expensive, but I'm going to make this wish to the ASFINAG. I've already asked myself: The extra costs go up to 20 million schillings, they say. That too will be to be examined by the Tunnel Commission, and if this is actually a measure that has an effect and which also justify financial use, I will ask the ASFINAG to implement this proposal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Third point: I cannot leave some of the things that Mr Reheis has done here in the room. The word "treasoner" is already one that you should express yourself very carefully. I believe that you should discuss this very carefully with your current provisional party chairman in Tyrol, Mr Guggenberger, because he was there a few days before I went to Brussels with a four-party agreement. He was sitting next to me at the press conference and he also carried what we decided there in a four-party consensus, Mr Deputies. I would like to reject this accusation. What's it all about? – It is important that we jointly represent positions that can also be implemented. We have made it clear that there are simply no allies in Europe for the 108% clause. Everyone knows. You're probably the last one in Tyrol who doesn't know yet. There is no majority and no allies in Europe for this demand of the Tyroleans, and that is why, even if you did not know that from your own party owner, we have proposed a completely different procedure, namely that on the one hand, the transitional solution decided in Laeken should be enforced and, on the other hand, national measures should also allow for a traffic restriction. There are not only the heads of state who have the opportunity to adopt regulations on the basis of the Immissions Act, but of course also our house. I can assure you that the next Transport Committee will be able to report on such measures. I would ask you to take note of the fact that all these regulations need a very precise and well-founded investigation procedure in order not to be fought in Brussels. We do not want to experience this Blamage, and that is why we have chosen this path. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! To Italy. – I accepted an invitation from the Italian Minister of Transport, and it was at the same time the Vice-Chancellor on visit to Italy. It is not we who use a different language system, but the two ministers in Italy. While Butiglione, the EU minister, seems to be moving on this issue, Lunardi, as a transport minister, remains in the old position. We hope, however, that by means of a suitable lobbying, by means of a good European strategy, we will be able to implement this process jointly decided in Tyrol in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17080	The next speaker is Mr Miedl. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17101	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate all those involved in the development of the KFG-Novelle. There are five principles that I would like to call you here; I hope I will do so in the specified time. The first principle: The higher the speed at which traffic is driven, the more frequent traffic accidents occur and the more dramatic the consequences are. The second principle: The less sheet metal surrounds a vehicle handlebar, the more dramatic the consequences and any injuries after a traffic accident – see pedestrians, mofa drivers, motorcyclists. Third principle: The more stable the body and the objects are embedded inside the vehicle, the more glaring traffic accidents occur. Fourth principle: The better a vehicle is made visible, the sooner other road users can adjust to this vehicle. Fifth principle: The more immediate the punishment happens after a misbehavior, the more correct and pedagogical it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the light of these very principles, the KFG-Novelle has been created. I am glad that there is agreement on this in a wide range of areas. Special attention, I think, should be paid to speed limits and their compliance. In this sense, I would like to thank all those involved, especially our employees and you, Mr Minister, for the presentation of these KFG-Novelle. We will be happy to give our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17158	The next speaker is Mr Dietachmayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17180	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of proposals and demands have come to amend the driving licence law: from the countries, from the authorities and from the organisations responsible for driving. Unfortunately, these proposals have only been partially implemented, and it is very a pity that essential areas have not been decided because there seems to have been no agreement with the government parties. I do not want to go further on the amendments because my previous speakers have already mentioned this. It should be noted that especially for young people, a facilitation has been made here that the traffic psychological examination is removed and that in the future driving tests can be carried out with the authority in which the train training has been completed. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is unfortunate that Mr Eder, Mr Mag, has tabled an amendment 445/A. Prammer, Dietachmayr, ladies and gentlemen did not find a majority in the committee and could not be implemented very essential points from it. For example, the cost of driving licences is a very important question for young people. These costs have not been addressed at all, although it is known that an average net monthly content is necessary to purchase a B-Führerschein, and that there are also large regional differences. In Vienna the driver's license costs about 11 000 S, but in Salzburg up to 20 000 S. The cost of driving licences is also significantly higher in Austria compared with neighbouring countries. One essential point, which has not been taken into account, is the price recognition requirement which should be more effectively controlled by the national leaders, and there should be a consumer-friendly tariff sheet, where everyone who looks inside really knows each other, in order to enable a price-performance comparison. It is also regrettable that new driving schools have not been facilitated by market entry. The problem of driving school instructors who should be able to apply for a driver's ID in the future, just as we have proposed, has not been addressed either. – There are therefore a number of important measures missing in this novel, and therefore we cannot give our support to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17225	The next speaker is Mr Scheuch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17246	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Federal Minister! Safety is certainly the most important issue of transport policy, and I note that all Members of this House have a real interest in improving safety on Austria's roads across parties. For this very reason, I am particularly sorry that my colleagues Edler and Schwemlein and many other colleagues from the SPÖ cannot give the consent of this law, such as the "section Control", an important area. I'm really sorry. However, the measures of this law show how important it is for the government parties to improve road safety. I do not want to list all these things now, it has already been said enough to do so today. Only one thing I'm allowed to emphasize: The man who stands for it, namely Mathias Reichhold, has already done pioneering work in Carinthia as a responsible for the field of transport and thus also for road safety. It has been a model function throughout Austria: for example, in the protection of motorway construction sites and in the safeguarding of school roads. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Mathias Reichhold, together with a daily newspaper in Carinthia, has launched a major action in which it has become possible to detonate really dangerous places on the school path. But he has also put in place many small measures. For example, it was possible to provide bicycle helmets free of charge to all cyclists in schools that had completed the cycling test. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you are talking about road safety, then of course you also have to talk about road traffic drugs. Although I know that this law is assigned to a subcommittee, I would like to express my hope that a young Member's hope that in this committee the ladies and gentlemen will become a security lobbyist from the opposition of drug lobbyists so that we can jointly prevent drugs from being given a chance in road transport today. Finally, I would like to say: The fact that the FPÖ has a special affinity for blue color is clear. That is why we are also pleased that customs guards, midwives and doctors can drive blue light to work in the future. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17299	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17320	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me briefly address three points. First of all: Why we do not agree with the driving licence law is linked to the fact that, although a SPÖ claim has been met with the free choice of driving school, the dispute between Mr Firlinger and Mr Kukacka on paternity on this proposal has ended, because this paternity is clearly found in the SPÖ – that a small step has been taken, but unfortunately many other measures are missing, including multi-phase training. Federal Minister! I acknowledge that you want to negotiate this and reach a positive conclusion. If this is the case, you will be able to receive our consent because we are also committed to doing so, just as we are in favour of the "section control". That's not a question at all! Just, my dear colleague, Firlinger: By linking the government template with the amendment, a separate vote is not possible, and we therefore have the problem that we cannot accept this part of the proposal. We cannot therefore agree to the entire proposal because essential points are not fulfilled. I know that Mr Firlinger has repeatedly been involved in cheaper driving schools. That's what we want, too. However, this claim was not met in the present case. It also does not include the possibility of easier market entry for new ones in this template. Furthermore, an Austrian course offer of a driving school is not included in this template. Furthermore, the problem that my colleague Dietachmayr has addressed, namely that the driving school teacher is so to speak bound to the driving school, is not solved. If there is a change in these points, we could reach an agreement. Secondly, Federal Minister! There is now a change in the federal roads, but there are really tough conditions for the drivers due to the milled roads. The milled streets pose a great danger. This condition takes a very long time and also means a high noise pollution. That is why I would like to ask you to help so that we do not result in a deterioration of road safety due to the changeover. Thirdly, I can tell Mr Kukacka and Mr Firlinger that in this subcommittee we will be very serious about the problem of drug abuse or drug abuse, but we will not approach things in a reasonable manner, but we will be very likely to observe the links with road safety and with the ability to drive, but also to keep a close eye on the fundamental rights of people and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17362	No further words are available. That is why the debate is closed. A final word of the rapporteur is not wanted. We shall proceed to the votes taken separately between the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the driving legislation and other laws, in 1081 of the supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Eder, has tabled an additional request. First of all, I would like to vote on the supplementary proposal and then on the draft law. Mr Eder submitted an additional request for Article IV. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this supplementary proposal to give a sign on this point. – This is not the required majority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to the proposal as it stands in the Committee's report to give a positive signal. – The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also agree to the proposal at third reading to give a sign on this point. – The draft law was also adopted by a majority vote in third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law on 5. Driver's license law-Novelle and title and entrance in 1082 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to express their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. This draft law was adopted by a majority vote in second reading. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval at third reading to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: The draft law was adopted by a majority vote in third reading. 5. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government template (979 of the Supplements): Federal Act amending the Risk Goods Promotion Act as well as the Shooting and Explosives Act and the Fire and Explosives monopoly Regulation (GGGG-Novelle 2001) (1083 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17449	==References====External links== Agenda item. The rapporteur shall refrain from reporting. The first speaker is Mr Edler. Voluntary speaking time proposal: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17476	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Risk Goods Promotion Act is basically an EU adjustment. She was brought here late. The SPÖ Group will reject this proposal, not because it would not be necessary, but because it is in this template that the responsibility of the operator, the carrier, the sender away, comes to the truck controller, and that is not acceptable in our eyes. As a result, we will reject this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! I also have a motion for an amendment to this effect. This amendment tabled by Mr Kurt Eder, colleagues, concerns the Promotion of Dangerous Goods Act. In principle, the amendment refers to the fact that we want, first of all, to comply with international rules, that the exemptions from liability and criminal conditions for consignors, transhipors and carriers are withdrawn, and that in the future the responsibility lies not only with the truck controller or with the consignee. Ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the FPÖ who have always emphasized being there for the little man! We have a historic opportunity here to avoid what happened in the Fachter scandal. As a railway operator, I am well aware that this has certainly only been a single black sheep. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] I don't damn the truck companies, but you've failed to take the chance to make the entrepreneurs responsible. You have only imposed the responsibility on the truck handlebar, and we reject that from the SPÖ Group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! At least one thing – and this is what we want to achieve together – is to be achieved in the Committee's deliberations as a result of the fact that the safety consultants are being trained even better that they are informed by senders, carriers and also the drivers, because this is about road safety – no matter which mode of transport. I do not take out the railways, I do not take out air transport, nor do I take out the waterways. Dangerous goods need special consideration, and their transport requires special safety requirements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17530	I announce that the request from Mr Eder and colleagues, which has just been presented in his key points, has been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported, and is therefore involved in the negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, it will also be printed in the Stenographical Protocol. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17663	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17684	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! With this government template, we decide on the harmonisation of international rules on the transport of dangerous goods. This is particularly important in terms of labelling. It is important that in every European country, in every country around the world, every fire brigade, everyone who has it, every rescuer can recognize what dangerous goods it is, and that everyone knows how to behave in a danger case. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: No, nobody knows!]] These rules, Mrs Lichtenberger, are made so that, of course, they are also brought to the attention of all those involved, so that the level of training is increased and that there is a basis for doing the training at all. I am very glad that another step towards harmonisation is taking place again. It is even more important, however, to implement all the possible things that have arisen in the immediate handling of these dangerous accidents. It has been shown that it is particularly important that, for example, the handlebar directly concerned with the marking and with the vehicle, for example, ensures that it does not cause any failure. In practice, the review has shown that, if the handlebars cannot be held responsible, it is much easier for sluttings not to occur. That is why this is an essential contribution to the safety of the transport of dangerous goods. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is much more important to think more about these freight transports, in that the general transport plan, as it is now present, represents the far more decisive step towards minimizing the risk of transporting dangerous goods. It is true that goods can be transported much more risky on the railway and also on the shipway than on the road. I believe that in the future these transports will be dealt with in the sense of increased risk control on the rail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why I am very pleased that we are now creating the framework conditions for a properly efficient and competitive infrastructure and, hopefully, in the future also for a competitive and efficient railway. From my point of view, it is also necessary for the ÖBB to separate operations and infrastructure in order to ultimately allow the tailors to carry out alternative transports independently as a private to facilitate market access conditions than is the case today. In this sense, I hope that we will continue to reduce the risk of dangerous transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17734	Mr Wattaul is speaking as the next speaker. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17755	Mr President. Minister! High house! This freight transport law is an implementation of an EU directive, and that is really the first step in the right direction. We need uniform rules across the EU, on our own because of transport documents, so that people who are concerned can also recognise themselves. I cannot understand the criticism of the Social Democrats at all because it is the implementation of an EU directive. You know very well that it's not true that only the truck driver is punished. The minimum penalty for the entrepreneur is 10 000 p. That means: For example, if a driver carries a fire extinguisher where there is no picker on which the recurring check is carried out, the driver must pay 1 000 S penalty, but the entrepreneur must pay 10.000 S. There's something else: We have now closed the chain for the first time; it is also the person responsible for the goods, it is responsible for the instruction of the truck controller. The truck driver must of course, if he has the dangerous goods in his care, also deal with it accordingly, and that is why this punishment is needed. As a result, the recipient must also take over these goods properly. I can tell you from practice: The Risk Goods Promotion Act works because there are such severe penalties in it, really very well. I can assure you that the transport operators are very imperceptible. I think it is very good to make such laws, in which not only the threat, but also the corresponding accompanying control works. This is a very good step in the sense of security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17795	The next speaker was Mrs Lichtenberger. Your speaking time is adjusted to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17817	Ladies and gentlemen! You will be surprised, but we agree to this bill. I can tell you the reason for this: Of a truly unbearable design, which must have been a kneefall in front of the lobby of the freight carriers at a lower level, one has understood how to make a semi-better design. That is why we shall also agree to this. However, some things remain unresolved in our opinion. For example, the question of the transport of dangerous goods by "private" – under quotation marks – is not yet adequately regulated. There used to be a minimum quantity regulation. That means: When someone takes home his gas cartridge that he needs to camp, he needs, as it were, increased insurance protection. You still have to take care of that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wattaul.]] This is not regulated, Mr Wattaul. You have to check it out. Mr Wattaul, to you: The directives on the transport of dangerous goods have not been invented yesterday and not by the Minister. These have been in place for a very long time, and unfortunately I also have to follow them for a very long time in their practical application. Unfortunately, I cannot be as optimistic as you are with regard to the carriers of dangerous goods if I look at the reports of the firearms and the controls. In some cases it looks very gloomy, especially when it comes to collection transports. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister! One thing will be your task: The unbearable dangerous goods tunnel regulation of your predecessor must be removed from the table! This is a disaster for the entire control staff, it is criticized by all. There is a need to restore effective control, especially where it is concerned with passing through tunnels. That was an intolerable weakening. It's got to get out of the table. To my agreement I hope that you will do the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17867	Mr Haubner has been mentioned as the next speaker. Your speaking time is set to 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17888	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! It is a fact that, due to international networking and the tougher competition, more and more dangerous goods transport through our country are rolling. Thus, the entrepreneurs, the rulers and, of course, we as legislators are called upon to do everything possible to make these dangerous goods transports as safe as possible. This increase in safety on our roads also serves this federal law. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already pointed out that this revision of the law is the implementation of the necessary EU directives. The adaptation of the freight transport law to these provisions is extremely important, because otherwise international transport rules could not be implemented nationally. However, this innovation is not only a formal adjustment, it is essential and crucial that the safety of the transport of dangerous goods is greatly increased. High house! This innovation will create more safety on the transport routes. The transport risks are reduced by clear areas of responsibility and regulations. The areas of responsibility are also clearly defined. So this novel brings more security to all of us on the streets.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17922	Mr Knerzl was mentioned as the next speaker. The watch is set to 2 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17943	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The terrible accidents in the tunnels have shown us that safety on Austrian roads is still extendable. Of course, the Austrian population has a right to security in this regard. I can only report here that, of course, with this new law, we are also contributing to the facilitation of dangerous freight transport. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: To facilitate?]] – Mrs. Dr. Lichtenberger, please let me continue! The law on the debate brings it into line with the United Nations recommendations on the transport of dangerous goods designed for global application. Finally, a number of formal provisions relating to the transport of dangerous goods are to be harmonised in the Fire and Explosives Act as well as in the Fire and Explosives monopoly regulation. Ladies and gentlemen! After consultation with the national governments, we were unable to raise any objections to this new law. This means that we can agree to this law without a doubt. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e17981	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 979 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment. First of all, I want to vote on the proposed amendment and then on the draft law. Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment to Article 1. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – It is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those members of the House who speak for it to be a positive sign. – It is accepted by the majority and thus. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 6. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 628/A by Mr Mag. Walter Tancsits, Mag. Reinhard Firlinger, colleagues concerning a federal law establishing a Marchfeldschlösser Revitalisation and Operating Society m.b.H. – Marchfeldschlösser Act (1076 of the Supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18055	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Dr. Moser. – The clock is set to 2 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18082	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister of Transport! The area of Marchfeldschlösser represents a Central-Eastern European unique cultural ensemble. That is why we will agree to almost all the points proposed – after intensive discussions and internal discussions, after on-the-spot inquiries, which have at least shown that there is a well-deserved approach. Our consent to most of the points also includes consent to the process that cultural goods in the dimension, with the building substance, can also be made accessible to the population, even with the need for renovation and adaptation, not under the hand and under the aegis of the Head of the castle team, offensively as a cultural property, but that an adequate form of society must be found. That's what we agree with. However, we see the excessive dosage negatively, we see the poor solution to transport links, and negatively we also see parts in connection with the future presidency of this society. That is why we will request separate vote. As I said, a yes overall but a skeptical no to finance and also to transport links. On the one hand, we show our constructive attitude and, on the other hand, our distance to certain overburdened forms of financing, in view of the fact that it means: Harden belts, save and reduce social damage. – That is not what we want, and that is why we want to keep pace with these adaptation expenditures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18118	The next speaker was Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18139	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say immediately that the Socialist Group will give its approval to this proposal. We are already going to give our approval because I can refer to a 1992 request, in which Members Dr. Keimel, Eder, Tichy-Schreder and Parnigoni – you see, there are only two of the above-mentioned Members – were planning to set up the castle of Schönbrunn Kultur- und Bedrijfsgesellschaft, which means that this area is out of place, which has led to the very success that we hoped for with our concept at the time. It's like there's three big players around the world: this is Versailles, that's Hampton Court Park south of London, and that's Schönbrunn. When I look at the UNESCO World Heritage Site, where over 700 projects are managed in a similar form, there are only two projects that can stand on their own economic legs: the Tower of London and Schönbrunn Castle. That was really a wise and good decision that we made at the time. We believe that in the course of this development it would be very good to develop a lock chain from Schönbrunn Castle – I also said it in the Committee; there has been a bit of a smile – similar to the Loire castles. One is a good mark for France, the other can become a good mark for Central and Eastern Europe in the future. It is not only about the castles that are now in the law, i.e. Orth, Eckartsau, Niederweiden, SchloßHof, Marchegg, Obersevenbenbrunn, Petronell/Carnuntum, but it can also, as I said, become a key project for the region, and it can also be included with other partners: Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, whose castles from the former monarchy could also be involved. In my opinion, this also has a high importance in the context of EU enlargement. Once the boundaries drop, this will be a beautiful project. The new company is a subsidiary of Schönbrunn-GesmbH. However, I should also like to point out some of the issues that I think should really be resolved if one is already dealing with such a project. This is mainly about the federal estate Fuchsenbiegl. This still belongs to the Ministry of Agriculture and would have to be installed here. Unfortunately, the experts are not very cooperative and want to have some €800 000 for this economy, for something that is not well received, which is actually... – That is just too much, right, this opinion I am also, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's too much!]] One should try to get this a little cheaper, because so much should actually be available in the Ministry of Agriculture, that one does not have to cross from one ministry to another. A second criticism, which I would also like to express here: The country of Lower Austria is likely to experience a very important tourism boom due to this development. In view of this, 4 million € from the head of the state of Lower Austria seem a little bit to me. There, too, one could appeal to the heart of Mr. Landescaps so that he can put on the table a little more money for this truly future-oriented and good tourism and cultural project. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18177	As the next speaker, Mrs Wolfmayr is speaking. The watch is set to 4 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18198	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Marchfeld castles are culturally historical and valuable buildings is probably undisputed by all of us. With the establishment of a Marchfeldschlösser-GesmbH as a joint subsidiary of the castle Schönbrunn Kultur- und Betriebsgesellschaft m.b.H. and the Schönbrunner Tiergarten-Gesellschaft m.b.H. The important cultural policy task can be carried out very well for all of us. Today's "Marchfelder Schlösserstraße" – colleague Eder has mentioned this before – consisting of the castles SchloßHof, Niederweiden, Obersevenbrunn, Eckartsau, Marchegg and Orth on the Danube, was in the Baroque center of court life, at the same time hub to the eastern neighbouring countries. Especially because of this eastern location, today almost to disembark and too close to the border, parts of the historical facilities are at risk, and others are in a kind of thorny sleep. Because of its geographical situation, however, the Marchfeld castles could in future form a cross-border extension: on the one hand, to the southern Liechtenstein castles, on the other, to Gödöllö in Hungary. The castle road would not only be an Austrian one after the accession of the eastern states, it would be a Central European castle road. Ladies and gentlemen! Artificial historically particularly significant is the model goods SchloßHof, planned by Lukas von Hildebrandt as a total work of art. The complex includes glass houses, gardens, fountains, an economic yard and a park. Niederweiden Castle is a fishing-von-Erlach building, served as a hunting castle and for courteous celebrations. In order to revitalize these as well as other objects, there must be land mergers, furniture and equipment, which are already heavily crushed by disposals, must be brought back as possible. Paintings were given abroad, some of them also stored in the depot of the Art History Museum. Ladies and gentlemen! For families for education, recreation and exactly the kind of gentle or quiet tourism, as it is becoming increasingly important for many people today, the landscape is and are ideal in it according to baroque, holistic standards, so today again very modern standards, adapted castle and economic farm facilities and their surroundings. Of course, this requires the appropriate infrastructure, a connection to road and rail, and, of course, cooperation with the Federal Forests must be established. Much has to be done for the new society and its start-up helpers. But the two Schönbrunn companies and their managing director Dr. Kippes and Dr. Pechlaner have acquired a reputation through their long-standing, proven and internationally recognized work, which we can safely trust. They give the demanding project a scientific background. It will also be your task to update logistics, operation, equipment, establishment of shops, offer design and international marketing, in a sensitive, sensitive way without event culture or Disneyland image. For more than 15 years, very many people have been personally committed and very strongly committed to this law. First of all, I call the President of Marchfeldschlösserverein, our President Dr. Fassleven. It certainly corresponds to the wishes of the Austrians that this cultural heritage will be revived. I am sorry that the Greens cannot entirely agree with this. I think it's a very good project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18246	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm The watch is set to 2 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18268	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! In sum, this is a very forward-looking project, which goes in two directions: Culture, nature, and this, resulting from it, of course also creates a lot of jobs in the course of the reconstruction and construction and represents an important impulse at the hub between Austria and the rest of Central Europe. I am very grateful to the initiators who have so to speak put this project on their feet. I would also like to stress from this point of view that management, at least during the first two years, also creates good conditions for economic success. As a liberal group, we have full confidence in the management of the Tiergarten Schönbrunn, we are convinced that a first-class offer will be developed and made possible here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing here with the formal legal issues such as the establishment of a company, the advisory bodies and so on, but we have to look behind the scenes, and there we see that a lot has already been done in advance. It is intended as a positioning, as a year-round excursion destination with extensive opportunities for family, children and so on, as a day-trip destination and event destination in both public and private areas. This gives rise to a huge range of tasks. That is why I am glad that at least three political groups will give their approval here. In the direction of the Greens, I can only say: There is not quite an agreement. There are only consents or not. And I'm stuck here from this pult: Three political groups agree, the Greens vote against. I would like to thank you very, very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18310	The next speaker was Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18331	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Very soon: This is an excellent thing that happens to the Marchfeld locks. I also do not want to narrow the merits of our President, who has initiated a lot of work in this area with the lock server in advance. However, I am still in the room that it is important to put this society on business terms. Because that's also what my previous speaker Firlinger cut: It is not clear to me yet whether the Pechlaner and Schönbrunn will make. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to set up a business company that does not work properly – I have already said this in committee – as our national park Donauen, which has been muttered more or less, says very salopp, but which brings a really reasonable solution. I am absolutely clear that all these things will bring job security; I welcome this and support all these measures. However, I would like to make two more points. I have already mentioned one in the Committee: We have a major problem with transport links, not those responsible for CO2 emissions, whether by diesel or other vehicles. That is why I am looking for all those from the right half of the empire who support the attitude of the secondary railway to Engelhartstetten, which leads into this close-up space, so that this side-track is not stopped. We need them! A second one: We need hotels in Marchfeld, we don't have them. I missed this issue at the Committee meeting. The Secretary of State for Tourism was present, but she did not lose a word about what could be done for the recovery of tourism in this area. Can we do something in the area of seminar tourism, can we do anything else, or can we just wait for the people to come by on their bikes and drive home in the evening? – These are considerations which, from my point of view, still need to be incorporated into this overall concept. A final remark, because some are constantly expressing their concern: It will not remind anyone of us to plan a highway or motorway after CastleHof and Niederweiden, but we need gentle tourism for the National Park, for the entire development along March-Thaya. In this sense we support this concern with enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18377	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18398	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a good day for the two Marchfeld castles castlesHof and Niederweiden, and it's also a good day for the wine district as a whole. Mr Eder has mainly concerned himself with the past and rightly stressed the success story of Schönbrunn Castle and this society. I would just like to say in addition, before I also deal with the future, that the initiative for this society of Schönbrunn Castle is based on someone who is not quite unknown today, namely the then Minister of Economic Affairs Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This success story of Schönbrunn Castle can now be continued in the Weinviertel. Therefore today is also a very good day for the wine district, because this success story can be prolonged. The wine quarter, which has long been located on the dead border, certainly had not been very easy in the last few decades. But there are a lot of initiative people there, there are very many who are in a corresponding mood of departure. Tourism has crystallized as an essential stand for the future. This initiative to strengthen the two Marchfeld castles accordingly with this society, also to ensure their conservation, to organise essential exhibitions and to link tourism offers with them, is a very strong factor also for the tourist initiatives in the wine district and thus, I think, a very substantial support of this positive development in the wine district. I would therefore like to thank you now for the wine district, but also for all its inhabitants, who today are giving their support to this law and who are thus taking an essential step in the economic development of the wine district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18446	The next speaker was Mrs Povysil. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18468	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am particularly pleased, as chairman of the Committee on Culture, to be able to discuss with you today a project that is supported by all, in which everyone finds something good. It is a shame that the Greens do not agree to only a part, but do not fully agree. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: Only the Six!]] But I am pleased that it is a comprehensive cultural project that everyone really supports. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] The really nice thing about this cultural project is the holistic view that all Marchfeld locks, starting with the first two, are revitalized that the old furniture comes back in, that the old art objects are coming out of the depots again and are being installed again, but also that the historical garden of SchloßHof should arise again, that the environment is adapted and that old animal breeds are also relocated in wild parks. This is really a cultural impulse to this environment, which can only be supported. The idea of continuing the castle road to southern Bohemia and Hungary is also wonderful, so that a cultural project is created here, which makes an old European cultural project a modern one, not only for the nobles on summer freshness, but for all of us accessible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18509	Mr Lexer is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18531	Mr President. Minister! The Marchfeldschlösser is one of Austria's most important architectural monuments. They are located in a beautiful landscape, in a culturally exciting area. Their maintenance and recovery are therefore not only a command of the hour, but also a public duty. I think that today's decision is a step in the right direction. The future of these cultural monuments lies in tourism, in cultural historical tourism. However, you should also think about other uses. I am thinking, for example, of the establishment of a technical college or of the establishment of a tele house to which jobs could be moved from the central office, such as part of the accounting of the Lower Austrian state government. All in all, as a member of the Committee on Building and Development, I would like to agree with this proposal and hope that it will have made a positive contribution to the development of this region.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18564	Mr Neudeck has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18585	Mr President. Federal Minister! Very soon: The terms SchloßHof, Niederweiden, Obersiebenbrunn are known to you. The cultural-historical cornerstones of this society have also been brought to you. I can therefore only make a few points which have not yet been discussed. The federal government will provide €26 million, the country will again provide around €4 million. In other words, it is 400 million schilling, which is invested in revitalization, which is work-intensive and gives a significant boost to the small and medium-sized construction industry in this region, but also to it. It is interesting to me that the Greens do not give the consent to this § 6, which says that the Federation gives the money. However, Mrs Petrovic will have to explain to the companies established there during her Lower Austrian election campaign why the Greens voted against it. One aspect of the future for this castle road is the fact that left professional demonstrators with green support increasingly abuse the Vienna cultural monuments for their actionism. This Marchfelder Schlösserstraße is an alternative for art and culturally interested tourists who want to relax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18624	The next speaker was Mr Wenitsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18645	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As a Member of Parliament, who comes directly from this region, it is of course a pleasure today to be able to accept this law. I would like to thank all those responsible, including you, Mr Fassleven, who have shown a great deal of commitment in recent years. I would of course also like to thank the two applicants, namely Mr Firlinger and Mr Tancsits. Not least thanks to Minister of Finance Grasser: €26 million for our region – this is not a cardboard handle! Anyone who knows the economic situation in the Gänserndorf district and knows that the economic data has fallen sharply in recent years, knows that this can, of course, mean a tremendous upturn for our region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18675	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18697	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! If, in fact, four parties agree to this law – with this small restriction that the Greens have announced – it is gratifying. I would also like to thank you, Mr President Fassleven, for without the Marchfeld lock server, without the initiatives of recent years, these locks would probably not be in the condition they are now and would not have been able to do so. – Thank you and your fellow fighters for this. The country of Lower Austria, Mr Eder, is also to be thanked: 4 million € are not a cardboard stalk. I am convinced that Dr. Pechlaner and others are quite grateful, although more comes from this side, but now it is a total of €30 million that can be presented. The first construction phase is secured from the so-called construction billion of the federal government and the resources of the state of Lower Austria – it can go away, and more will be to do. It is a project that classically fits into that field that we call cultural tourism, and that gives rise to new hope in a region in Austria that has not been blessed so far in relation to this subject. This hope is justified. We therefore trust so much in the success of this project, because two personalities will be at work, who have not only learned the craftsmanship but also proved to us in recent years how it works: Dr. Pechlaner on the one hand and thus the Tiergarten Schönbrunn, with all the expertise behind it, as well as Dr. Kippes, Managing Director of the castle Schönbrunn Kultur- und Betriebges.m.b.H. Ladies and gentlemen! These two personalities are at least used as interim managing directors for the next two years. This will have to be done by me, Mr Rada, and that is what it is all about. This sets a cultural and cultural tourism impulse in the Marchfeld in Lower Austria, which can truly be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18742	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 1076 of the supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Dr Moser. First of all, I shall vote on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall vote separately on § 6 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We now proceed to the separate vote on § 7 para. 2 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is accepted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – It is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 7. Point Report of the Building Committee on the Government Template (786 of the Supplements): The Federal Act amending the law of measurement and verification and the accreditation law (1077 of the Supplements) 8. Point Report by the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on the amendment of the Eichgesetz (MEG) etc. (1078 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18833	We now come to points 7 and 8 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Bures has spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18861	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are dealing with a government template whose objective was, on the one hand, to include European law in Austrian law and on the other hand, to ensure that the legislation of measurement and verification is harmonised with the accreditation law. I think that the government's proposal also meets these two objectives in large part. I miss only one objective that I think would have been necessary, namely the improvement of consumer protection provisions. It is probably not a coincidence that this government template did not use the opportunity to also highlight consumer protection provisions more strongly. If you see how the Minister of Justice deals, for example, with the Consumer Information Association, this rather leaves the conclusion: With consumer protection, this government doesn't have much to do with hat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is a question of making controls more effective, especially from the point of view of consumers, also because we know that there are maladministrations in many areas. We have too few controls in Austria, and in reality we do not have a coordinated comprehensive market observation, as is the case in many other European countries. But we would need that. I believe that it is also necessary to come to a concrete conclusion in the field of filling quantities, quantities, manufacturing marks for vessels, given the problems that consumers have with them. And I think that it would also be necessary, for example, in the pre-packs, where consumers are buying more and more the "cat in the bag", to preserve consumer protection in concrete terms. One should not have to buy any package whose contents are hidden, whose quantity cannot be checked by the consumer. We know that the amount of filling – and thus the price – is very often wrong in Austria. Federal Minister! I would just like to mention two examples in the near future. We know because the Chamber of Labour has also examined that in many areas the consumer is, so to speak, being brought to his money or to his goods. In the cosmetics sector it is so that at 72 percent – at 72 percent! – the checks did not match the weight indication with the filling content; it is certainly no secret that of course there was less in it than is on it. Consumers have a right to receive what is on it for their money they pay. As a result of an examination of the Chamber of Labour, we know that 61 percent of the packages were also under-filled in the case of sausages and meat products. That is why I think we should have taken the opportunity to accept the appropriate consumer protection regulations in the context of this change of the legislation and legislation, but this opportunity has not been used. My colleague, Mr Maier, has tabled a motion for a resolution on the practical introduction of a comprehensive, Austrian-wide market observation, thereby increasing the level of control which is undoubtedly necessary. The level of penalties for law violations such as – kindly formulated – sloppy fillings should have been increased in order to ensure that this is not a cavalier offence. Federal Minister! I believe that the opportunity to also give consumer protection a priority, and the opportunity of improving consumers through harmonisation, has unfortunately not been used by an EU approximation of this legislation. If we implement the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Maier, we can agree to the present bill, otherwise this law will not be accepted, precisely because the essential area of consumer protection has been omitted. Consumer protection is especially important for individuals. I therefore invite all those to whom consumer protection is a real concern and not just a lip commitment to agree to the motion for a resolution. In addition, I have not heard a sound argument in the Committee, which would be against it. As I said, Minister of State, unfortunately you have not taken advantage of this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18931	The next speaker to speak is Mr Deputie's friend. The speaking time is gladly set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18952	Mr President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Market efficiency, adaptation to Community law, deregulation, discharge of public administration and cost transparency, as well as cost savings for the federal government as well as for consumers – these are the main priorities in the amendment of the Eich Act and the Accreditation Act. Consumer protection has the highest priority here. Eichwesen is a very responsible activity for the consumer and for the marketability of companies. With this change of law, we are using an adaptation of Community law in any event, in order to achieve greater transparency and competition and cost savings for the Austrian market and public administration as well. That is why I welcome this government proposal. The main purpose of the bill is to privatise tasks and discharge public administration, by extending the possibility of carrying out calibrations by privately accredited equivalries on all the measuring instruments required. In this way we allow the private bodies another field of activity, which will make them even more competitive and cost-friendly for the customer. The calibration of measuring instruments by accredited private equinoxes has already proved itself well in practice in the field of quantity measurement technology. For example, for gas, water, heat or electricity meters, 18 accredited equinoxes have already performed excellent services. They were and are the model for a successful transfer of state responsibilities to private individuals. They have shown that a significant relief from the authorities and thus also a reduction in public costs is possible and useful. The outsourcing of administrative competence to private individuals and the discharge of public administration will go hand in hand with the safety and protection of consumers, as the accuracy and reliability of the measuring instruments and the high level of measurement will be maintained. Accredited test sites shall meet high requirements. They are also strictly tested and controlled. This is clearly regulated in the new accreditation law and in the revision of the Eichstellenverordnung. ==References====External links== In January 2004 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the This is required by the relevant transitional provisions – for the transition from the authorities to private inspection bodies. I would ask you to give your consent to this government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e18998	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. The watch is set to 2 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19019	Mr President. Mr. Minister! This bill is an intervening between privatisation approaches to a greater extent on the one hand and incomplete privatisation on the other. We see the weights and dimensions of the matter as a control task as a whole, which should remain very strong in the state. We see this especially in the context of consumer confidence in quantity figures. The reliability of such information must be ensured. For this to happen, we simply need rigorous state control, not least because specialists, for example from the CCI, have pointed out that this project takes far too little account of consumer policy approaches. We have here, so to speak, a mixture of fish and meat. We do not have a clear new regulation as we would like it to be. We have here a large amount of privatisation of enhanced state control tasks, and therefore we cannot accept this law. I have a witness, so to speak, and this witness is on the one hand the Minister of Finance. In his opinion on the bill, in his assessment, he pointed out that this draft law entails a further abandonment of the obligation to commit and, of course, a further significant decrease in the charges of equal pay. So there will be less revenue. On the other hand, in its audit report on the existing system, which is now being discussed in the Committee, the Court of Auditors, as I say, also pointed out in the report on the physical and technical testing service, for example, that personal responses have not been made accordingly. That was also criticized. In our view, it is necessary to implement reforms in the case of a government structure and not to introduce this intermediate and twin operation. That is why we are unfortunately unable to agree to the proposal because, for us, the measurement and equidae is a fundamental political, consumer policy and a reliable point. In this area, we want very clear conditions!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19062	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Count. The watch is set to 3 minutes if desired. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19084	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, you certainly remember the debates on the whole environmental problem: How many different terms and definitions have been used there! You have often really not known yourself. There was therefore a need for a general European standardisation, which is now also reflected in this draft law. In particular, a large part will be decided on reciprocity within the Member States. This is not only for the EU Member States, since there is already a reciprocity in the EEA area from the outset and unilateral defence measures should not take place. This is why both laws must be amended. That is, we have a standardisation, mutual recognition and equality. With regard to the calibrations and tests, I remind you how long one who has been employed by an eichamt has taken to get only one punch, how long it took to obtain equinoxes for various measuring instruments. The present regulation has succeeded in a direction-setting step in that, although such processes can in principle be carried out once by the Eichamt – namely the initial issue – and then be passed on to privately accredited companies. These accredited companies are subject to a strict examination, thus ensuring that they receive the corresponding implementations for units of measurement for the consumer and user. I would like to address briefly a subject that has been discussed in the Committee's meetings, namely the question of why goods which have a certain weight or a certain unit of value when they are filled have a reduced weight or a reduced unit of value. In the practical field, it is not always possible to determine the weight. I am thinking, for example, of the dried fruits, of the question that has been raised: How do you plan to determine when the dried fruits are sold, and what weight they will have up to then? I think it is a direction-setting new way of using private jobs in this area. This is covered by the measures taken by the Federal Government to really transfer to private companies the corresponding state-of-the-art tasks that can be carried out by private individuals. This not only brings cost savings to the State, but also, of course, a corresponding relief from the taxpayer. This is a very, very difficult matter. If you look at the first pages of the bill, you can see what it was all about to standardize here. I would therefore like to thank, in particular, the officials who have done very good work. I see in this another good opportunity for our Federal Government to bring a further discharge to the taxpayer and to pass on high-quality tasks to private companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19135	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19156	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to focus on the contribution of my previous speaker. I don't think there's a tax payer's discharge here. The opinion of the Ministry of Finance is available – the federal government is less involved in the future. I would also like to say one thing very clearly: Whether it actually comes to a discharge from companies, because privately accredited jobs in the future can seem, we do not know that, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let us wait for the next few years and then talk to the companies about how the costs actually developed. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would, however, like to focus on the impact of this law on consumers. The statement, Mr. Freund, that consumer protection is of the highest priority among you from the government parties is certainly not correct, because the criticism of European consumer organisations has not been in line with this draft law. I also know, of course, that we need new regulations at European level. We need, for example, a minimum quantity regulation in the case of interfering. For one is not perceptive – whether wanted or not –: that someone buys 1000 grams and a quantity reduction of 970 grams is allowed. Or he buys a product with 100 grams, and it is allowed that the weight is only 91 grams. Mr Federal Minister, that is the deficit of this government template, and therefore we will not agree either. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address two more problems. Federal Minister! In an answer to a question, you have indicated that, as in Germany, it is seeking to draw up a report to the National Council, namely on the controls, on the number of checks and on what has been found. – Minister of State! I have missed this provision in the government template. We have not yet found a system of international cooperation at European level. This is the question: How do I inform Member States if underfills are being established on a continuous basis in certain products? What are the problems? – There are problems especially with food oil and spirits. 10 percent of these products are under the so-called average regime. The partial systematic under-filling of pre-packagings – I would like to say quite clearly here, Federal Minister – is equivalent to a hidden price increase for consumers. That is why we reject this proposal. But I can invite you to accept our motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19211	Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19232	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Very soon: Mr Maier, it makes little sense to criticise the fact that the European Union defines the curve of cucumbers, but on the other hand to call for a minimum set of rules for peat at EU level. Either that or the other! Either we do not want detailed rules at European level or we want them. I don't want her! It makes no sense, on the one hand, to criticise the increasing flood of reports by the Ministries to the National Council, but on the other hand to ask for new reports as you did. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the opposition here is fundamentally different from the position of the government groups. They want rigorous state control, Mrs Moser, in the O-tone. You, honourable Member Maier, are calling for a drastic increase in penalties. That means you want the state, you want control and you want to punish. We want to punish the state as far as it is necessary. However, we want the market and, ultimately, the private economy to act in the interests of consumers, as far as it goes. In the interests of consumers, it is always when private economic mechanisms work. If the competition works, then there is quality and reasonable prices. The penalty framework is not low at €10 000. We see no need for an increase. Mr Maier, I am particularly surprised that you, with your motion for a resolution, are calling for very specific EU rules. What you call for in paragraphs 2.1 to 2.3 is contrary to current EU law. It may already be that things are changing – panta rhei – but then you will react to it in due course, we are respectful with decisive. As I see it, the innovations to the law of measurement and the law on accreditation and the law on accreditation are very likely to optimize consumer protection in this country, to further improve and, on the other hand, to reduce costs and to bring a little more private economy into what has previously been mainly under the administration of sovereignty. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19283	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19305	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, the Eich Act – which has been stressed by most speakers – is an adaptation to existing EU standards, on the other hand – to which I would like to devote some thought – is a step towards administrative simplification in this country. The staff of the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying, which is also mentioned here, were always leading in this field, and from there have always been innovations in the direction of modern and efficient administration – for example, the first computer jobs, teleworking jobs and so on. So it is also in the principle of measurement and sequencing. Not everything the state, the federal government and its officials have to do. He licenses, controls and accreditations; thus, audited bodies that can perform measurements and calibrations in the future, as in some areas already. I don't think that's such a serious step. Our car inspection works the same way. We do not have a comprehensive network of federal car inspection bodies, but we do that of the TÜV, the automobile clubs and legitimate private workshops. Even in the personal medical check-up, it is so that not every single one of us has to go to the health office, but you go to a contract or election doctor. Therefore, we also consider it possible that the crumple glass is not standardised by a federal official under the supervision of the Eichprüfs inspector, but that this is also done by an accredited third party. That is the principle of this law, and contrary to that, your proposals are directly suited to bloating the administration and bureaucracy, creating new ways of office and extending official paths. I quote from Maier's request before he is rejected. The content is worth noting. For example, a volume control report is required for the National Council. – These would be "voluntary" debates! Or it is required – the Minister has already mentioned it – to dramatically increase sanctions in the event of violations of law such as sloppy fillings. – The SPÖ as a new "Law and Order" fraction! [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! I'll give you a tip: Think about criminal sanctions for people who resort to police! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] In the meantime, we are making an efficient and consumer-friendly administrative reform.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19366	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19387	Mr President. Federal Minister! The present government template will bring about an EU-wide adaptation of the law on measurement and verification and accreditation. This has already been mentioned by my previous speakers, and it has also been stressed that consumer interests are unfortunately in the background, even on the line. It has also been said that this is particularly the case in the filling quantities and in the pre-packs. So it is often so – my colleague Maier has already pointed out – that there is less inside than there is outside. But even the permissible minus deviation from the nominal amount of filling is often undermined, as the controls show, and this is proof that controls are important. There is a hidden price increase, and that is good for the economy, I say now. Unfortunately, as we have just heard, the Minister of Economic Affairs sees no need for action. Ladies and gentlemen! It has also been made clear by the statements made by the Federal Minister: The market economy needs rules, and when it fails to comply with them, I say, unfortunately, we need proper penalties. This is the position I represent. Federal Minister! We also see this in other areas of the market economy: Where there are no rules, no controls and no penalties, there are organized forms of illegal employment, there are social and tax fraud by economic operators, but there is also illegal underfill of finished goods, as we had to learn in this discussion. Federal Minister! But you are also right to say that there are different positions between the government parties and the opposition. I expressly give you the right to do so. You, Mr. Federal Minister, and your party, but also the Freedom Party, think first of the economy and then of the people. The Social Democrats and the Greens, on the other hand, think first of the people and then of the economy. – This is the difference, and that should be said once too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We therefore need increased consumer protection, clear rules – if possible across Europe – a Mogel Packing Regulation, Europe-wide mutual reporting system – which has already been implemented – and above all more controls and higher penalties. Since these considerations are too short in this government proposal and our national margin, which is actually given, is not exploited, we, the Socialist Group, reject this legislative proposal as a logical consequence.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19439	The next speaker was Mr Ellmauer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19460	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl, business are employees and employers. If a part is missing, then there is no economy. I believe that the amendment of the law on measures and equal treatment and accreditation, as well as of the accreditation law, is not only to be seen in terms of the necessary harmonisation steps with EU law, because this law offers far more and consistently implements the line of government: Saving tax money and simplifying administrative procedures. With the extended use of private equilibriums, the budget is eased and private equinoxes are given more opportunities for activity. Slighter structures are created, and tasks are outsourced to private individuals, who can do them better and, above all, faster and more cost-effectively. This is finally enforced by this change of law. It is a pity that we have not been able to convince the Social Democrats and the Greens of the importance of this change of law. But, as so often, the colleagues of the opposition are trying to delay the resolution tabled by Mr Maier, with parliamentary cross-borders, and as such, I am referring to the resolution tabled by Mr Maier. There is already a national market observation. Like the Socialists in their motion for a resolution, it would raise the administrative burden again and thus also the costs for the public sector. It will be controlled and acted on the ground on the basis of the change in the law in the future. The structures of controls have been improved and, in particular, made more efficient and effective in the sense of consumers. It is really a pity that the opposition parties are still not able to decide together with us on legislative changes, administrative and cost savings and improvements for consumers.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19511	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the law on measurement and accreditation and the Act of Accreditation, including title and receipt in 786 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment to the Committee's report 1077 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Construction, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 1078 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act and the Federal Law against unfair competition (395/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19582	We're on the 9th. Agenda item and go into the debate immediately. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19606	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The present proposal by the Socialist Group deals with the representation of consumer interests in Austria. We are currently facing the situation that, on the one hand, we have divided consumer materials into almost all Federal ministries and that there is no coordinated consumer policy on the other. From our point of view, therefore, the establishment of a Consumer Protection Council is the task of consulting the Federal Government on consumer policy matters, but not only the Federal Government, but also the countries and other public-law bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would point out that the European standard would be. In the other European countries, there are such institutions that give opinions on consumer policy to the Federal Government. In Austria, we do not currently have such a body that advises a federal government or other public authorities. I would like to point out that there is also a positive example for us, namely the Austrian Data Protection Council. The Austrian Data Protection Council advises the Federal Government on data protection, data protection issues, and a number of documents had to be amended on the basis of the opinion of the Data Protection Council. We believe that the establishment of a Consumer Protection Council could make consumer policy in Austria more effective. One could consider what is happening in the individual Federal Ministries and in the individual proposals of members of the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I'll get you together. A Consumer Protection Council would make consumer policy more effective in Austria. A Consumer Protection Council meets European standards – other countries have such institutions. Finally, I think it is important to point out that this Consumer Protection Council really can discuss the problems of people in Austria, namely consumer problems, and then perhaps become the subject of government proposals. I can invite you to be positive about this initiative on our part and to support us in this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19651	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mikl- Leitner. The speaking time is gladly set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19673	Mr President. High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The issue of consumer protection has moved us very much, especially the minds of consumers in the last few days and weeks. In this context, I also think of colleagues from Maier, who were the 15th of a year old. March, the World Consumer Protection Day, has, above all, helped to create uncertainty among consumers and to dissuade consumer protection here in Austria. I suggest to you that you have not in any way been concerned with safeguarding the rights of consumers, but with the intention of making the government and consumer protection worse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And that's what distinguishes us. For me in my role as consumer protection spokesperson of the ÖVP, the consumer is at the heart of every party policy. [[Abg. Gradwelt: How is that in Lower Austria, Mrs. Colleague?]] I can also remind you here in this round that 69 percent, almost 70 percent of Austrians feel very well represented in their consumer rights. If you look at this in the European comparison, you can say that we are very good here, above average good. I should also like to remind you that more than 70 percent of consumers feel very well represented by consumer protection organisations such as the VKI. Of course, I can also imagine extending the CCI to those groups that need more consumer protection, but of course with the same rights and the same obligations. The same conditions shall apply to all groups participating in the VKI. For me, consumer protection is an important matter, it covers a wide range and therefore requires very special structures due to the cross-sectional characteristics. That is why I do not understand why from today on all the structures should be thrown overboard from tomorrow, why we want to destroy good, functioning structures from today to tomorrow. Of course, I am happy to be able to improve consumer protection, but only under certain conditions, i.e. if there is an overall concept in which double-tracks and double-structures are excluded and fixed conditions, clear financial conditions are laid down. [[Abg. To what wedding do you dance at the moment, Mrs. Colleague?]] In this sense, I would like to ask for constructive cooperation in the sense of consumer protection so that we can create framework conditions for all consumers concerned in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19745	The next speaker was Mrs Achatz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19766	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maier, I do not know whether this Consumer Protection Council is really the stone of the wise, but one thing I know very well: that there has never been as much positive in terms of consumer protection as under this government. In this context, I only recall the activities of Minister Dr. Böhmdorfer in matters of too much retained interest. No Minister for Consumer Protection and no Minister for Consumer Protection has ever approached this hot topic, has ever had the courage to deal with the banks. [[Abg. May. Maier:... the Chamber of Workers!]] Only and only Mr. Dr. Böhmdorfer did. Mr Maier, the Chamber of Labour was very weak, and you know that very well! [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Maier.]] But that's not so interesting, because that's already past. I would just like to tell you that we will, of course, very constructively discuss your request. And as I know our ministers, positive aspects should be present, of course, in new legislation.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19808	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Your remaining speaking time is 1 minute, ladies and gentlemen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19829	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say: I distance myself! and sit down again!]] The EU demands and expects the powerful consumer, the powerful consumer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is much too long and too big!]] [[Call the Freeman:Ready time!]] We need information. A consumer advisory board can contribute to the creation of a powerful consumer, and then the economy and competition work. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Talk time!]] That is why I very much see the authorisation of this legislative proposal with regard to EU requirements, with regard to forced competition and consumer policy activities and, above all, with regard to the fact that we have a broader and more coordinated and coordinated approach to a policy field of which everyone and everyone is really concerned. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19902	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 395/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-04-17-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00100_d7e19935	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 654/A (E) to 662/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3726/J to 3759/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 18. April 2002, 9 a.m. The agenda will be delivered by the clubs. – The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
