ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3349	I can warmly welcome you, and I will open the 113. National Council meeting scheduled for 11 a.m. today. Meeting of the National Council at an extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3374	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has the National Council with a resolution of 12. In accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with Article 28(2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 2 B-VG on the basis of a request from more than one third of the members of the National Council for an extraordinary meeting of the XXI. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The official minutes of the last three meetings, 110, 111 and 112. The meeting was held in Parliament's management and remained open without opposition and is therefore deemed to be approved. As an obstacle to today's meeting, MEPs are Achatz, Burket, Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn, Staffaneller, Haidlmayr and Dr. Moser. Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3406	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Reinhart Gaugg has waived his National Council mandate and, in his place, Mrs Mag. Konstanze Röhrs was appointed to the National Council. Since the electorate is present and, as I have been informed, is present in the house, I will make the fishing immediately. After reading the vow formula by the writer, Mrs. Ludmilla Perfuss, the new mandater will make her fishing observation with the words "I vow". I should now like to ask Mrs Schreiber to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3442	"They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your duties."
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3458	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3473	I very much welcome the new colleague in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3500	With regard to the negotiating items and their allocations, I can refer to a written communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3746	In accordance with § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested urgent consideration of Mr Gusenbauer's motion for a resolution on the purchase of interception hunters, which was introduced into the agenda before the entry into force of the agenda. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, which you all know and which include a three-hour Frist, the call for this urgent request will take place at 2 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3772	We are now going into the agenda. With regard to the statement made by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, which forms the agenda today, there is a request by five Members to hold a debate on it immediately. – This desire must be accepted. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3796	With a view to this debate, consensus was reached in the Presidential Conference on the following procedure: The declaration of the Federal Chancellor will have a duration of 15 minutes. Following this, Mrs. Vice-Chancellor spoke at a speaking time of 10 minutes. After that, one speech is made per group of 8 minutes, and another word by a member of the government with 8 minutes and another by 6 minutes. This is followed by another round of speakers, in which one speaker or one speaker of each political group will speak with 8 minutes each. For this debate it was agreed not to make any actual corrections. On such a proposal, the House is to be found. I therefore ask: Is there any objections to this proposal? – Since this is not the case, it is unanimously defined by the National Council. I am now interrupting the deliberations by 12.05 a.m. We have agreed to set the continuation of this meeting, with the declaration by Mr Bundeskanzler, on time at 12.05 a.m. The sitting was suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 11.05 a.m. and resumed at 12.05 a.m.)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3848	Ladies and gentlemen! I can invite you to take the seats, and I will resume the interrupted session. Statement by the President on the occasion of the flood disaster in Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3878	Before we start the discussions, I would like to do something that you probably all rightly expect: In your name and on behalf of the Austrian National Council, I would like to express in this disaster a very warm word of thanks to the numerous volunteer and professional helpers who are ready for sacrifice and ready for sacrifice. [[Prolonged general condolences.]] In this thanks, which you have now expressed in such a remarkable way, the willingness to donate, to solidarity and to help the neighbor is also included. I have received a number of telegrams from the Presidents of Parliament of other countries, and I think that in the same sense and in the same spirit, we should also express our participation to the neighbouring countries – Germany, the Czech Republic and Slovakia – which are equally difficult and in some cities particularly seriously affected by the flood. It is a sad fact that in Austria, as in other countries, human lives are also to be lamented. Those who through this flood have not only lost possessions and good, but also their lives, we want to remember in a moment of mourning. [[All present rise from their places and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. [[The seats are taken again.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have already presented the procedure and the course of the debate to the House. As we have stated, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany is now making a statement within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure, which is also a matter of negotiation. A debate was also decided on this. The first speaker in this debate is Mrs Vice-Chancellor. It follows that procedure, which has also been set in writing and which I do not want to repeat again. All the political groups have agreed to refrain from any actual corrections in this debate. I can now give the floor to Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel on his statement. - Please, Federal Chancellor. Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GEC on High water situation in Austria
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e3949	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for the words of compassion, for the minutes of grief held by the High House, and for the thanks to the volunteers, for thousands of Austrians – in total almost 200,000 people were affected especially in Salzburg, Lower Austria and Upper Austria – have experienced the worst days of our generation in the last few weeks. For a long time, the worst natural disaster has captured much of our country. In Lower Austria, Upper Austria and Salzburg, the flood has covered whole areas, towns and villages with mud – images that are otherwise known only from television and from other regions of the world. Thousands of people had to be evacuated from their homes, some of them lost home and farm irrevocably. Eight people had to leave their lives. Our compassion, our participation, is particularly true of those who have become victims of this catastrophe, and of those who are now facing the ruins of their existence. We have also noticed how vulnerable our world, which seems so secure, has become: From bright heaven, people can be struck by such a flood and put to death their life's work. Of course, these unleashed forces of nature have made us all unsure, even in need of salvation, according to acknowledgment and explanation. All this has shown how much we need each other: in Austria, in the regions, but also in Central Europe and in the European Union – whether member countries or candidate countries. This flood has changed Austria, it has suddenly engulfed us from a very beautiful summer. The priorities will also be re-ordered and re-examined, for example, when one sees that entire businesses, for weeks, can no longer produce that people have lost their jobs, that entire families have lost their homes, personal items, documents, memory items are irrevocably gone, that thousands of individuals, traders, entrepreneurs and farmers have had to watch practically helpless helplessly as their work was destroyed within a few hours. Nevertheless, we have also seen in this crisis that natural charity, the natural solidarity in Austria works very well. The wave of helpfulness, solidarity is impressive! I would therefore like to thank all those who have not only found words but who have set very specific acts and have donated them in the last few days, as well as the President of the National Council, for the fact that this country has not yet seen it in this form, even as it has not seen it all in Europe. – I thank all the donors! [[General condolences.]] Within four or five days, €45 million of donations were made in Austria. In the Federal Republic of Germany, which is much larger, only half have come together in comparison; however, the wave of donations is only now in progress. This shows, however, that solidarity, that the community is living in Austria – and that is something very precious. I have said that in Austria there are almost 200 000 people who have lost a lot. At the same time, however, there have been 50,000 volunteer workers who have come from holiday, farm or simply home to help people. In addition, 10,000 soldiers from the Federal Army, 2,000 police officers and gendarmen, professionals from all over the world and all regions. At this point: All those who have helped there, a great thank you! [[General condolences.]] We from the Federal Government invited all the heads of state for today. Almost everyone has come and coordinated with us the assistance measures. It was a very good and detailed conversation. The entire Federal Government, as well as the countries, cities and communities have unanimously presented a comprehensive aid programme which we present to the National Council today as a flood-offering and reconstruction law 2002. We very much ask that there be cross-party consensus on this so that this bill can be adopted at the first meeting in September, so that this law can really be adopted on 1 January. ==References====External links== I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, for this sign of living solidarity, including in the field of legislation. We won't let anyone down! – I promise this here and today, even after consultation with the countries, cities and communities. We will give the victims the help unbureaucratically and quickly. Today, we have decided to increase the disaster fund by €500 million, to provide additional €100 million to the companies, to the infrastructure within the disaster fund, and to provide €250 million for water and wastewater plants in addition to €50 million in the environmental and urban water management funds. In total, the direct aid from the Federal Government alone is almost €700 million, including the doubling of the donations received on Saturday. In addition, there will be a comprehensive economic recovery programme: the extension of the measures for the whole of Austria to 2003 for this year too. In addition, for floodwater regions and, of course, for businesses, significantly increased building depreciation and machine replacement investments: €400 million in total. In other words, the federal government alone already makes over € 1 billion available. In addition, the help of the federal states comes. In total, more than €250 million of commitments are currently in place, so that we are ready for the first step. We don't let anyone down – I emphasize it! No one needs to be afraid of being left alone with his misery and all his worries. Whether it is material or human use: Those concerned must and should feel that they live in a community that participates in a society that offers more than empty words. Solidarity lives, and it must live today and now! We do not need a bond that will become effective later on. We need solidarity now, and we are ready to do so, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] True is: In such a situation, the priorities are also changing. I say this quite unstained: Many federal states have demanded of us – rightly demanded! – that, of course, the internal stability pact is not applied to the dramatic expenditure – nor do we know the overall extent of the damage. That is a matter of course. It has been called damages that far exceed what is still being speculated on in some media today. We're ready to help here. But this also requires that we have the courage to say that a "point landing" is subordinate for the present year and the next year. We wish and need the goal of not making new debts in the medium and long term, but in the present situation, priority must be given to those who need our common assistance. – That is of course for me. [[I should like to say a few words on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.]] Secondly, we must give priority to the needy, to what is desirable and sensible and to what is in our programme. This includes, for example, the discharge of taxpayers. I say this quite openly: We would all have wanted – and it would have been good – to carry out a discharge in good time. For me, however, there is now a need for priority, i.e. aid for flood victims and economic recovery, so that we can bring the farms to work as quickly as possible, so that people are again employed so that we can finance the reconstruction of the houses as soon as possible, so that farmers can be helped as quickly as possible, which are partly massive harvest damage or otherwise cannot cope with the feed situation for their animals, so that we do not leave anyone alone – whether or not they are able to do so. Large or small farms, employees or self-employed, farmers or those living in a city. It is important to refocus the priorities. Faith You're telling me: It is my move – not the refusal, but the move! – the necessary tax relief to 2004 was not easy, because it was and is at the heart of our joint government programme. But I believe that in the present situation such a sacrifice of solidarity from all over Austria can be explained and necessary in order to give people hope and confidence in a tense situation. I therefore appeal to your understanding and ask you in this context for your consent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this package of laws, which we are presenting to you today, we have also provided for generous assistance to be given in a tax manner. For example, there will be tax subsidies for farms in need. Of course, there will be no seed supplements. It will cause the deductibility of expenditure to operate for its employees who are damaged by the flood. Donations from the companies will be tax deductible. Anyone can also claim his or her damage as an extraordinary burden. As the first issue, the countries today pledged that they would be accontaminated as soon as possible, from this week on. 20 percent of the damage and more are accommodated so that people have at least something right away in their hands. Secondly, up to 50 per cent of the damage will normally be compensated; in existing cases, too, far beyond that. Of course, both the finance and the economic ministers will have discussions with the banking and insurance industry in order to also demand a solidarity victim, which is absolutely necessary and useful for those concerned in these regions. We will also take control seriously – and I say so openly here – because it cannot be so that some of us are using five pots, while others are, so to speak, not knowing the ways in the jungle of the authorities are too short. A resolution agency is agreed with the countries, precise control so that it is clarified from the outset: Both the money of the donors and that of the public hand comes to those who really need this help – and I think that is absolutely meaningful and correct. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Yesterday we held a Central European summit – I call it that way. In Berlin, the Heads of Government of those four countries, particularly affected by floods, met: Gerhard Schröder, his Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, Benita Ferrero-Waldner and I, as representatives of the affected member countries of the European Union, but also those of the next new members, namely the Czech Republic and Slovakia. For the first time, a meeting was also held with Czech head of government Vladimír Špidla and the Slovak Prime Minister Mikuláš Dzurinda, who is currently in the campaign. The members of the European Commission, led by Romano Prodi, were Michel Barnier, the Commissioner responsible for regional policy, budget Commissioner Michaele Schreyer and enlargement Commissioner Günter Verheugen. Ladies and gentlemen! We also need a European signal in this situation. Europe must not fail us in Central Europe! No human would understand it if, in a situation like now, there was an international aid fund that would help with a cyclone in Nicaragua, a flood in China or an earthquake in Turkey, but for an internal European disaster marginal, almost ridiculous amounts of, I think, only €1.5 million are available. In addition to the necessary and correct Stability Pact, solidarity is needed, including for the member countries of the European Union and for the candidate countries. And that is what we are going to do, ladies and gentlemen. [[It is a pleasure to see the ÖVP and the liberals, as well as to the SPÖ representatives.]] Romano Prodi said yesterday in Berlin: What is happening today in Austria and its neighbours can happen elsewhere in Europe tomorrow! – This is true, and that is why we want to take the idea of the European family seriously: Europe is to and will become a solidarity. Our aim is to ensure that European aid is available to all of those concerned by such an event. There are too few structural changes in the Structural Funds. Firstly, these are very bureaucratic procedures, secondly they never help individuals individually, but only companies or are dedicated to the construction of the infrastructure. In this situation, however, we need a European signal, a European disaster aid which, in the event of an emergency, is available to all the citizens of Europe. However, the way there will not be easy: We need unanimity in the Council, we need the consent of the European Parliament. But we four affected EU Member States or Neo-Members and the most important Commissioners yesterday signaled: We want that, and we advertise it. Benita Ferrero-Waldner, together with the German Foreign Minister, has been commissioned to contact the Member States in this regard – and already this Thursday our Foreign Minister in Denmark will contact the Danish Presidency to bring these things to the journey in an EU Special Council of Ministers. It could be felt directly that a new dimension of European policy is now becoming tangible, namely a Central European Solidarity Community. My Czech colleague Vladimír Š pida has formulated it this way: We feel again that we have a geographical and even physical destiny in common! It was more than a gesture that about a Czech professional fire brigade group – really to the end! – in Gars am Kamp has fought with us against the flood and has now, for example, sent Josef Pühringer an above-Austrian fire brigade to South Bohemia and has contacted his South Bohemian chief of state colleagues. This is a living Central European solidarity – and this is important, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much to all those who have contributed! [[General condolences.]] In my opinion, it is essential that there should also be a functioning coordination in this context, and the Federal Government, together with the three heads of state concerned, will now meet in permanence. The donations are centrally coordinated, the aid is centrally coordinated and paid out. We will not go into the agenda until the floods return to homes and fields, farms and villages. Austria will devote itself to this task with full determination, energy and optimism. We will not be distracted, we will not let down, we will put all levers in motion – and hopefully not remain in party-political, small day fight. And if we do, ladies and gentlemen, we will also win against these floods together!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4232	We are now going into the debate that is required and therefore to be held. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor spoke. The fixed speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Vice chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4256	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very difficult to describe in words the extent of destruction and what has been happening here in Austria in the last two weeks. We have all seen a lot of television images, lots of photos in the newspapers – but this is really about single-sicks behind them, how many families, how many people are affected by this disaster, and what that means for each individual can only be judged if you have seen the situation in the affected regions and areas on the spot. Seven people have lost their lives in the floods in these days in Austria – some of them in selfless rescue. We would like to express our deep interest in their families and the willingness to help them. Many others have risked their lives for their neighbors and fellow citizens in the dangerous rescue. Some of them we know from the media reports, many of us will never get to know who have really been used under personal risk and at great risk for others. [[General condolences.]] Thousands of people have lost their homes and all their possessions and possessions and have literally been able to save nothing from the floods but what they carried on their bodies. I met in Gars at the camp a family with two children who lost their house. The house is completely destroyed and cannot be rebuilt. Because of the speed with which this disaster has broken in, it was impossible to save anything. In addition to the document folder that you took, everything went down in the floods. Faced with such fates, it shows what responsibility we have here. It is particularly bad for old people who have lost their homes and can no longer return to their homes and homes, for young families who have been saving for years, who have mostly built a home on credit, who have now lost everything and who have actually remained nothing except debt. They all need the absolute certainty that they will be helped quickly and comprehensively in this difficult time. [[General condolences.]] The willingness of the Austrian population – which has been reported several times in the media over the last few days – has really broken all the boundaries, but one cannot say it often enough. Not only the many generous donations from companies and organizations, but above all the many small donations have led to this huge amount. We saw it on Saturday at the donation campaign of the ORF – I sat there myself on the phone –: Minimum pensioners, who really have difficulty themselves, have donated, children have donated their pocket money, people who really don't have much to live, wanted to make a contribution in this situation too. That is why it was also a matter of course for the Federal Government to double this amount. With this doubling, more than €33 million of donations were received on Saturday alone, the large donations not included. This is a great solidarity for the Austrian population, for which you cannot thank enough! [[General condolences.]] We have immediately made available, as has already been said, funds for the disaster fund to ensure that not only the damage in the private sector can now be eliminated, but also the operations can be rebuilt. There are a number of tax measures for businesses, because it is very important to ensure, in this situation, that the establishments where everything is destroyed whose machines are broken, which cannot be produced for weeks or months now, have the security that they are not abandoned. It is also about very many jobs, and if we want jobs to be maintained in these establishments, we must ensure that production is re-established. That this is done quickly and unbureaucraticly, we have today, together with the national leaders, been concerned about it. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think it is aware of all of us that this requires a effort of strength, namely a effort in the literal sense of the word, but also a financial effort whose extent we cannot really estimate at this time – many areas are still flooded. We cannot really judge the entire extent of the damage, but there are many regions in this country where everything is destroyed: where the infrastructure is destroyed, the roads, the railways, the bridges are destroyed, where businesses can no longer produce where drinking water supply no longer works and very many people have lost their homes. That is why we need to make a clear and clear commitment that more needs to be done than what has been required by the law so far. We have already taken precautions with the disaster fund regulation so far, but there has never been anything to this extent. We must give people the certainty that, as reported in the media, only 20 percent of the damage will be paid. There will be a lot more to be done to guarantee reconstruction in these destroyed regions. [[Complementary with the liberals and the ÖVP as well as with the SPÖ.]] This must take precedence above all others. I know this is difficult, I know that many things are important to our country. I know that there is a need for tax relief in this country – I am fully aware of it – but we cannot go to the people who now literally have nothing at all and say: We can't do more than pay off 20 or a maximum of 30 percent! – Then we have to wait for a tax reform. We need these resources now. We have to give them all, we have to make sure that we can and want to rebuild these regions, so that we can give this country a future and secure thousands of jobs in that country. If we did not, ladies and gentlemen, then the economy and the labour market in this country would be exposed to a threat that would be irresponsible. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, this requires not only aid from the Federal Government, the local authorities, the truly overwhelming support from the population, but it will also be necessary for the European Union to make funds available. I think it is a real mistake in the construction of the European Union – as it now stands – that, although there is funding for disaster aid in third countries, there is no means of doing so. Provision is made for emergency aid in the Member States themselves. This Federal Government has therefore taken the initiative to ensure that the European Union provides additional resources to the countries affected by this disaster. This is simply necessary because of what is happening in Europe, in Austria and in the other countries concerned. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] However, it is not only about financial aid, but also about the active aid on the ground. I've already said, What has shown itself to be helpful, solidarity and willingness to work in these days is really extraordinary. Almost 80,000 firemen were in service in Austria these days. The Red Cross has taken care of those concerned and the organization of the supplies. 11 000 German army members have worked on site until total exhaustion, in order to free the houses as quickly as possible from the mud. And many, many volunteers from all the federal states went uninvited to the affected regions to help. This is something that has given people tremendous courage, namely that people from all over Austria have come – from Vienna, Tyrol, Vorarlberg; from all the federal states – to help and show that the victims are not left alone. Many who were themselves affected have helped those who caught it even worse. It was also an experience that was very touching: to see that people whose own homes were damaged said: First of all, we help those who are much worse! – This is also a sign of commonness and solidarity, a sign that Austria holds together. [[General condolences.]] This cohesion, this willingness to help and this solidarity must also be given if the flood and its consequences have disappeared from the front pages of the media and if it is no longer the main message in the television news every day. We must not forget that the consequences of this disaster will continue to exist in the regions concerned for months and years, so that solidarity and willingness to help cannot be paralysed. This must be the most important message of the day to all people in the floody areas: that we will not turn our eyes away and that we will not rest until all the houses and farms are rebuilt. [[Complementary with the liberals and the ÖVP as well as with the SPÖ.]] Our whole attention must be paid to reconstruction, but in the weeks and months after that, we must also ask ourselves the questions as to how in future we will deal with incalculable risks such as these, whether we will have to live with such risks, whether nature does not set limits, whether we should not give nature any more space and what role man has played in this regard in environmental destruction. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign]] It must not remain with confessions in these dramatic days, but must also be aware that we are all responsible. Because we can't build the dams so high that there can't be disasters like this that won't break dams. In other words, there will have to be much more far-reaching measures that we must also devote ourselves to – both at Austrian and at international level. The hope that we have for our whole country, which has the victims, is based on the great willingness and solidarity shown by every individual Austrian in these days. This is an example for the future generations, politics, but also overall for the future of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4427	For the next four words, a speaking time of 8 minutes is in view. Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4452	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The flood disaster of the last days is a century event. As someone who comes from an area on the Danube, I have experienced more floods in the last 40 years, and I have to say: A flood of this magnitude has not occurred since at least 1954 – in many areas not even in 1954. That is why it is an event of quite new, namely terrible quality. The actual dimensions of this disaster become visible only now when the water turns back, the Danube and the other rivers have returned to their old river bed – the mud mass, the stench, the destruction and despair remain. When I visited my home town last weekend, there was an element that touched me very much: In Ybbs an der Donau there were several hundred volunteers from Lower Austria, Vienna, Upper Austria and other federal states who helped clean the city and give the population the prospect and hope again – there were men and women, disciples and older people. I noticed that a lot of young people were among them, who made their hands and gave practical help there. And we should not forget this when, as usual, the so-called loss of values for young people and the fact that everything had been better in the past. The last days have shown it: That's empty scumbag! Then, when it comes to showing practical solidarity, young people and older people, women and men in Austria are ready to do the same – and I would like to thank them for that. [[General condolences.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, many of us ask two questions. First: How can we help victims in concrete terms, how can reconstruction be carried out and financed? And second: Is man or politics powerless to such natural disasters, or can one prevent to a certain extent? – In the end, we have to address these two questions here in the National Council, because they are the crucial questions for the people concerned today and the future of our country. If we are discussing the measures now envisaged – the Chancellor has referred to a number of proposals from the Federal Government that we will decide and decide in Parliament, all of them going in the right direction – then I sometimes have the impression that this will not be enough. Yesterday I had a conversation with a young trader who, together with his wife, opened a business – of course, financed on a credit basis in many areas – and this company was flooded away by floods and mud. The things that were not flooded away are the loans and debts that exist. Now we have to ask ourselves the question: What does this young man do, what does this young family do? – It needs extra money to get into the position that the company can work again – but the old debts remain anyway! That is why, Mr Bundeskanzler, we will not be able to make up for 30 or 50 percent of individual businesses when it comes to the possibility of employment there in the future, when it comes to people who are so badly affected by fate, having another chance in Austria in the future. [[We welcome the SPÖ, the Greens and the ÖVP as well as the Liberals.]] In this context, I think we should also stress that the quick help is, of course, the best – that is no question at all – and it must be carried out unbureaucratically, and there must be funding for it. That is why today, the Socialist Group, we have the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Mag. Gaßner, Ing. Gartlehner and colleagues, in which we specifically propose that there should be a loan in Austria to finance the large-scale reconstruction of our country. Mr President, I would just like to point out at the heart of what this motion for a resolution contains. We demand: that all persons affected by the flood as emergency aid receive € 10 000 from the disaster fund, that all affected small and medium-sized enterprises receive 20 000 € as the first start-up aid for the reconstruction of the plant, that, in addition, the employment security must be carried out, including all those volunteers who have been completely unprofitable in the service of the case of Austria and the handling of the need, that the municipalities receive the necessary resources to rebuild the infrastructure; and In the end, we will also make available those resources which will enable the reconstruction to be carried out there, where the landscape has been devastated. It is not the hour of the accountants, but it is about generously bringing about the reconstruction of the desolate landscapes – that is our obligation in this situation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Federal Chancellor! We also need to reconsider the priorities. In the future, many of our water structures will ask themselves the question: What is the priority: energy use or flood protection? It will also ask itself the question of where the economic benefit comes from at the limits of nature, where nature will then strike back in an immense way. – That is why it is not only that we can help today in concrete terms, but that it must come to a fundamental rethinking in politics if we want us not to be out of power over such natural events that then hit people so hard, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I was on the pay phone, talked to the people concerned on the weekend and I have to say: Everyone understands that we are in a new situation and have to change priorities. Federal Chancellor! Do you know what many people said to me? – You said: It may be that, in such a situation, one can think about a tax reform, it may already be that in such a situation the zero deficit is not to be kept, it is true that the reconstruction after the disaster of course has its first priority, but what we do not understand is that in such a situation there is no money for all, but the Federal Government nevertheless maintains its plan to acquire fighter aircraft. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] . In this respect too, a change of priorities would be made in the current situation of Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] Therefore, my veneration Ladies and gentlemen: Solidarity and joint action on how to help victims in concrete terms, to be generous in reconstruction – and not to keep up with the change in priorities where our own prestige projects are concerned!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4585	I note that the request made by Mr Gusenbauer in his key points has been properly submitted and submitted. On the basis of its large size, it will be duplicated and will be available to each Member in writing shortly. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4785	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4807	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have already thought that once again you, Mr Gusenbauer, are putting 100 percent of a speech in the service of the matter when it comes to a very serious issue, about the fate of many people, and not at the end of the day, once again in polemics and populism. But you did not succeed – I will stick to it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We have to cope with the greatest post-war disaster. Many people, especially the older generation, have actually compared the present situation with the post-war period, with the post-war state. It is about reconstruction, and there are television reports – even now again due to the floods in Germany – in which it is said that entire cities have to be abandoned – this is also known from earlier times. I would also like to express on behalf of my group the deepest concern about what happened, about the victims who gave it, and also about our participation here from the speaker's desk. Above all, however, I would like to thank you very much again and a "reward's God!" tell the many helpers, the saviors, and also – and this must also be said, Minister of Defense – to the Austrian Federal Army, who has done incredible things in these days: The coordination has voted from the top to the recruit. It's all worked, they've gotten behind it. – Thank you very much to the Austrian German army! [[General condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The government has acted quickly, efficiently and targetedly – 650 million € aid package, total with the tax measures already around 1 billion €, with the country's pots even more, all without a single tax increase, without a single new tax, without a single new tax! In the political debate, the necessary and important has suppressed the political everyday, according to the motto: In good times we are separate, also as parties, but in bad times we should all be allies – Mr. Gusenbauer, allies, and not the small party political advantage! Now does not count red, black, blue, green, but now only a red and white-red force counts for reconstruction and safeguarding the existence of the affected people in the crisis areas, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] That is how I was surprised, Mr Gusenbauer, that you have been marching here a little bit, but have guided us about the daily things that are immense. I would like to say this to the people from here so that they can hear it, because you, Mr Gusenbauer, did not say this from the speaker's desk, for example: that you accused the government of being heartless and removed in this disaster; they misused the victims, you said according to Sunday's edition of the "Kurier". – "heartless and lifted", although within a very short time they are pushing a billion schillings – a billion € – although government members and government representatives are driving in disaster areas, there talking to people, helping them to provide emergency assistance. [[Call the ÖVP:Euro!]] – That is heartless and removed, Mr Gusenbauer? Think about what you're saying here! I mean, you should get away from this Jargon at this time, take away from tank and polemics! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] They should distance themselves from it as long as people tremble around their existence and see it at risk. Mr Gusenbauer! You have returned from your well-deserved holiday on Saturday and direct us to such strong sentences! You have not stopped your – well-deserved – holiday, you have continued it in Corsica, while German Chancellor, Vice Chancellor, the entire government team and also many of your colleagues from the National Council were personally in high-water use. I would have expected you to come back, take on your responsibility and support Austria in this difficult situation, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: Did you talk about Polemik?]] By the way, as well as the Vienna disaster centre: The first disaster representative of Vienna is head of state and is called Häupl. The Vienna disaster centre was also not present, he was not here, has not contributed to the relief of the need. And if you do so, you can't go here and be polemic, populist, throw some projects together, demand cancellations, insult the government. [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Who's that polemic?]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Get together!]] This is wrong because people are now expecting a strong cohesion of the policies and the parties, Mr Gusenbauer. For example, they expect hope – which we can give here today – not only Larmoyanz, but also hope! And we want to give this hope as government parties; Federal Chancellor Schüssel referred to this. We want to give hope that today no one countryman, no affected person, no family, no businessman, no farmer, no real fear of existence, because we will all insist that not only 20 percent, as was the case so far, will be paid off, but substantially more, so that no existence on the ground of floods must be threatened. This is our ambition, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Instead of giving unsustainable promises, help instead of squatting, donating, taking a look at them instead of looking away – these are the qualities that should unite us in these difficult times. I too was on the pay phone on Saturday and have experienced all of this like the others. A touching scene was: A prominent whose name I don't call here, a much more prominent person has been sitting there on television, and he has telephoned, and when he was done with it, he was so overwhelmed by what was happening there that he said: I'm proud to be an Austrian! – This should connect us here, ladies and gentlemen, too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Even when it comes to helping other helpers. In this context, I would like to put in place a motion for a resolution concerning the many aid organizations, the German army, rescue services, which we would like to thank very much. We want to examine the extent to which persons who are employed as voluntary agents in the framework of organisations or outside of them in disaster cases can be assisted in an immaterial and material way, for example through labour law measures and social security or by providing support facilities and infrastructure measures. The helpers need our help quite massively so that they don't get any problems in the work so that they don't get any problems materially, and also immaterially that they just get care. That is what we want to announce today by means of this motion for a resolution, ladies and gentlemen. I am therefore seeking approval. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Nor will we let go of what the European Union is doing. The European Union too has now been put to the test and can show whether it is a union of people or a Union of bureaucrats. We will look very closely at the resources available from the European Union for this European disaster. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria, its citizens and, above all, the affected federal states are faced with a hard test. Together with those involved, with the helpers, with the public, with the media, with politicians, far away from any party political couleur, we will continue this difficult sample and rebuild Austria together, reach out to the sleeves and make the country and, above all, the areas that are so heavily affected again to that flowering Austria that it was before the flood. - Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e4934	The request made by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol's done enough. Since it was not read in the text, I will simply copy it, although it does not have the necessary scope; but we have never handled it so precisely. I would ask you to make a copy of the request. He'll be negotiating. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5005	Mr Auer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Same time of speech: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5026	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, the unimaginable, something that was not imaginable, has become reality. It has been shown to a great extent with some dramatic effects of nature. Even today, we can only take a rough look at the actual extent of the damage of this millennium flood. As bitter as the material damage is: First, we have to remember all those families who have a death victim to complain about. We have the injured who, using their lives, have helped to seek rapid recovery and to express our respect to the lifesavings. We have to thank all those who were in use under the toughest conditions, are in use today and will be in use for a long time, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] We have to thank the men and women of the fire brigade – only in Upper Austria on some days 13 000 men – the German army – we have heard: with more than 11,000 men, whether cadres or newly invaded military officers – the Red Cross, the rescue organizations: They all work in a professional, selfless and admirable manner. Austria is proud and should be grateful for the potential of charity and assistance they represent for us. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP, the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] We should and must also thank the thousands of volunteers who have spontaneously made themselves available as civilians for the cleaning work. Even all those who have already donated or still donate, whether small or large amounts, whether minimum pensioners, whether school kid, wealth or injured, we say a thank you, the official Austria says a thank you and thank you today for all those who will need every euro urgently and bitterly to rebuild, repair, replace; whether companies, traders, homeowners or those whose homes have broken down, whose property and property has been washed away in a few hours, or farmers whose harvest has been destroyed whose existences have been affected. – Whole strips of land, regions are sinking in the floods! I come from a constituency where thousands of acres of land were submerged, partly still standing, where rivers have caused immense suffering and immeasurable damage, where the Danube has flooded areas, where the tears, the Agers, where small streams have become tearing rivers. Everything disappeared in the dirty floods. Whoever travels through our country today, but does not come to the affected regions, believes that this has not been true. Events within 14 days have done something in our country that was and is unimaginable. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The dramatic is hopefully behind us, but the most difficult is still in front of us, namely to rebuild the destroyed one, to help those affected enough to take courage. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor, Mrs Vice-Chancellor, the Federal Minister for Trade and, as I hope and wish, all in this House for this joint national effort to help all those concerned accordingly. [[General condolences.]] We should and must all say that a new beginning is possible, that Austria is behind all those concerned. We have here in our midst two mayors, Mr Gäsner of the SPÖ and Mr Prinz von der ÖVP, who have dramatic experiences in their communities that could tell us what this is like when the infrastructure is totally destroyed, which could tell us how nearly new riverbeds were dug that could tell us what incredible horror scenarios were there. All that has become visible, what has been brought closer to us via television, via media, are only sub-areas. I thank in this place all those who help so great! The importance of the German army's power of action, the strength of the volunteer fire brigade, which was sometimes smiled in Sunday's speeches, how important enough disaster equipment is, has shown this millennium disaster. For us, it is also important for the European Union to help on this fundamental issue. I would like to thank the Federal Chancellor and the Foreign Minister for this Austrian initiative, a European disaster fund, a solidarity pact and not just a stability pact, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would ask everyone to agree to this request in order to signal a clearly closed sign of solidarity also towards Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The importance of the Austrian disaster fund has been dramatically addressed to us. To think, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore welcome the initiative proposal tabled by Mr Westenthal, is also about how to improve the service exemption for fire brigade members. Consideration should also be given to how, in some regions, land use is to be improved. Consideration should also be given to how, in many areas, construction regulations can be improved. Consideration is that oil tanks are stabilized, that emergency power units in public facilities are not built in the basement, where they first fail and therefore are ineffective. It is also worth thinking about, ladies and gentlemen, how this can be further implemented, which led our Federal Minister Willi Molterer in admirable ways at the retention and floodwater basins, how this can be improved, how flow areas can be kept free. To think, ladies and gentlemen, is also about how we can help fire brigades to finance the replacement of equipment that has helped with super-local disaster aid. Assuming fire brigade: There are a lot of members and volunteers to whom the Bundes-Ehrenmark is more than right, and I would ask you to make such requests in this regard. In agreement we want to say to all victims in Austria: Believe in this country, believe in reconstruction aid! Austria is behind you!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5156	The motion for a resolution by Mr Khol, Mr Westenthal, which has just been tabled by Mr Auer, has been sufficiently supported and is under discussion. Mrs Petrovic is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5181	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! I will comment on the following three points: on the necessary measures of emergency aid, on medium-term considerations of financing and on the longer-term considerations – which my previous speaker also mentioned at the end of his remarks –: How can we at least reduce the impact of disasters in the future? One thing I'm sending ahead: That there is a high degree of consensus in this subject and in the great trouble, we all feel that, we all see that, but that it is also necessary on today to talk about different approaches, perhaps also contradictions, that I consider to be a fundamental requirement in a modern democracy – especially in the sign of a crisis and disaster! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] First point: Of course, we are Greens in favour of financial compensation for the victims of the disaster, as far as it is concerned, and we will not be able to see the extent of the disaster until the next few days and weeks. In addition, it will be necessary for us to ensure better employment and social protection for long-term disasters in particular. They know that this is an old demand of the aid organisations; obviously, it is now more up-to-date than ever. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be a minimum degree of solidarity, to us also with the helpers who are now – without this security! ............................................................................................................................................................ [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Secondly, medium-term financing requirements. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said that the tax reform had to be postponed and asked us to understand it. – Open doors to the greens: We sometimes felt in the past that the keyword "zero deficit" was highly stylized to a myth – beyond the needs of the country, especially the poorer people of the country! We consider it a matter of course that urgent financing needs are now being met and that, unfortunately, everything else, necessary redundancies, must be resettled. This goal was not based on the opposition, but was very strongly addressed by the government. In this respect, it is a late but honest admission that it was ultimately a myth that was so unsustainable and unobtainable. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there is also a link in financing with other State investment. In this context, it is not a polemic to address the issue of fighter aircraft, the interceptors, because, of course, the resources of the future budgets will also be addressed in order to finance the consequences of this disaster; only about the increased depreciation programmes. Since every euro can only be spent once, it will be necessary – you have said so too – to set new priorities. We Greens have never made a hooligan out of our priorities: We consider an ecological security policy to be a hundred times more important than this military acquisition! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] There might even be a path in a democracy: If we cannot agree here in this House among the people's representatives of the various political groups – and we cannot do so! – then we can clear the way for a referendum. Then, I believe, the Austrian people, the Sovereign, can decide on the priorities here and today. I cordially invite you: Give the way for a referendum on the interception hunters! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] On my third and last point, which is, of course, especially dear to us Greens, namely the long-term dimension: How can we perhaps prevent or at least reduce the impact of some disaster in the future? In this context, there is no way to deal with the mistakes of the past. Member of the European Parliament Auer has addressed it, it is already being discussed in the media, I also reach ongoing calls and emails with the content: We warned there or there about an area dedication! We warned there or there about huge parking spaces, from a surface seal! We warned about the attitude: When the water comes, you will get some kind of control of it! Federal Chancellor! They also talked about the vulnerability of society. - Yes, it is. But how big these wounds are, how strong the injuries can be, this is also because of whether we are doing a sustainable disaster prevention. This will be the main priority in the future: to operate a settlement water economy, which returns from the waterways, the Channel Autobahns, the connecting force and all the processes that have been carried out there; a spatial order that leaves nature space again, even in larger flood events – thus simply a paradigm change! We Greens have often presented concepts. I think it is now time for us to discuss them together and decide on them; I invite you to do so. I ask you to look at these concepts together with us! I think we will soon be able to come to an ecological security policy in this area. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I'll finish. I'm rowing to those who say thank you: Thanks to the population, the helpers, but also – and this is particularly important to me – the Austrian artists who offer many benefits events. We will also point out on our homepage. I mean, not only should we endure in grief and shock, but we should also celebrate again and make ourselves together at this new beginning.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5315	The motion for a resolution by Dr Petrovic, Oillinger on the exemption of helpers in the event of disasters, fulfils all the conditions, and is therefore part of the debate. The next speaker in the debate is Mr Mag. Molterer. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5339	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In this hour it is clear: Our compassion applies to the victims and those affected, our thanks to the helpers, the professional helpers and the many thousands of volunteers. Our duty as a politician is, of course, to give the reconstruction and assistance the clear priority number one and, therefore, to ensure rapid decision-making in Parliament together with you, ladies and gentlemen. In addition, I also believe that it is our common task to give people in the affected areas hope and perspective and to convey the feeling based on the wave of solidarity on the one hand and on the basis of the wave of professionalism, cooperation and help on the other: It goes upward, we shredding the sleeves, and there is a future for people and for these affected areas! [[General condolences.]] Today, together with representatives of the federal states, we have set out three clear priorities with representatives of the municipalities and cities. First of all, of course, it is important to make an intensive progress in cleaning up and to help the victims concerned immediately. – At this point also thanks to the communities, thanks to the mayors who are the first contact points in the crisis. Thanks also to the crisis bars that have done great things on the spot. Secondly, the restoration of infrastructure – road, rail, power supply – as well as the restoration of protective facilities, the brushed, the broken dams, the destroyed avalanches. Thirdly, of course, the reconstruction of the disaster areas, especially those in these areas, in order to give people work and thus income and perspective. We – and we should be proud of it, ladies and gentlemen – have a perfect instrument of assistance in hand with the disaster fund. I remember discussions that took place there or there: Do we need the disaster fund? – He has proven himself, and we must strengthen the disaster fund, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to help in the future! [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In my area of responsibility, of course, it is necessary to ensure the immediate restoration of drinking water supply. It is necessary to ensure the immediate restoration of the waste water treatment plants, ladies and gentlemen. In my area of responsibility alone, 1 800 employees work every day to ensure that all of this becomes functional again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need the restoration of protective water installations, the restoration of avalanches. – An open word – Mrs Petrovic, of course, I am still speaking on the questions of the future: The water protection facilities and plantation facilities have proved their worth! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Think about the situation in our federal capital, Vienna. If we wouldn't have these facilities... [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] I know what you want to say now, ladies and gentlemen! I say it yourself, you can save yourself the calls: Yes, our group was also opposed to these institutions at the time, but it has simply proved to be correct – as we are able to learn – to have such facilities. I appeal to the learning ability of all, especially since today there is still a community in Salzburg, where an initiative against the cultivation of protection was successful, and this community is under water. We must now implement these clear priorities where we need protection, ladies and gentlemen. But in the medium term there are three major questions from my point of view. First: When it comes to protecting against natural hazards, we need to review our planning priorities and the planning bases because planning bases are partly years and decades behind. We need to achieve a much stronger coordination of the regional planning measures of the federal states with the protection plants. But we also have to keep some areas free from colonization – from this point of view I say very clearly to the mayors too – because we cannot protect everything 100%. [[General condolences.]] It must also be clear to us on the issue of protection installations that we must give the rivers and streams the ecological space they need. Ladies and gentlemen! A second priority of future policy is the fight against climate change. I hope that the discussion on whether climate change is actually being implemented is finally over. – He is quite obvious. No one knows whether this singular event is really solely due to it, but from my point of view, the first and top priority of global environmental policy, the European Union's Community environmental policy and national environmental policy must be the fight against climate change, because this is the only right strategy for the protection we have at our disposal in the long term, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] I therefore believe that we must explore all policy areas in the light of the background: Are the measures we are taking correct? Are they in need? Do we need new ones? Where are they counterproductive, also in the sense of fighting climate change? Thirdly, and this, of course, is the concept of sustainable development, the strategy of sustainability in all policy areas, to help us do everything possible. Quite clearly: Nature sets us limits, but we have the responsibility to use what is put in our hands properly. Johannesburg will become a test stone. The World Summit will be the test case that will show how seriously we really mean it worldwide in the fight against climate change. I hope that the last doubters, skeptics and preventers are now simply caught up and overtaken by reality. This is our perspective for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5460	As the next speaker, Mr Scheibner is speaking. The speaking time shall be 6 minutes in accordance with the agreement. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5481	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Many of my previous speakers have expressed their concern about this inconceivable disaster and above all about its extent. It is still inconceivable what these natural forces have done in much of Austria. Thousands of people are in front of nothing. But I think we all have to live up to the responsibility here, to give these people a hope and a perspective for the future. In the way of assistance, the Austrian Federal Army has done everything in its power to protect the people from the flood, and has also helped in the cleanup work together with the forces of the fire brigade and the civilian forces. As Minister of Defense, I would like to express my sincere thanks and my recognition to all these forces, especially my soldiers – up to 11 000 were permanently available. [[General condolences.]] Impressive was and is, above all, – the forces are still permanently on the ground – the high motivation – really up to exhaustion; we must force our soldiers to take rest breaks – the motivation they show to help people. Impressive was also the wave between courage and despair when one believed on the weekend that after the first flood one could go to work out the damage, and then one had to go back a second time, because all the dams, all the protective measures did not help and the areas that had already flooded and already been cleaned were flooded again and everything went off from the front again. Ladies and gentlemen! The whole scale of the disaster will only be graspable in the next few weeks; however, it has been made clear and impressive that the Austrians can rely on their security forces, on their auxiliary forces and, above all, on the Austrian federal army. 12 000 evacuated people, 240 000 liters of drinking water a day the federal army provides, apartments for evacuated, sleeping bags et cetera, a lot of heavy equipment – this is an indispensable contribution to the security of our country and its population! [[Congratulations on the liberals, the ÖVP and the SPÖ.]] It is also to be remembered that two thirds of these forces are military. Ladies and gentlemen! I would now also like to comment on some words in the past. Of course, it is permissible to talk about financing the consequences of this flood disaster. I think the Federal Government has given a clear signal with this more than 1 billion j – that is half a tax reform from the volume – that it does not abandon anyone. Of course, you can talk about what you don't get, what you want to buy in order to facilitate financing. But, ladies and gentlemen, especially Mr Cap, what really affected me is that at the height of this disaster, when it really came to mobilising all the available forces, one signals that, in the discussion about the interception hunters, one does not say whether or not one is in favour, but that at this stage when it comes to signaling the population that one is helping, pretends that the procurement of these aircraft would have any effect on financial assistance for the victims in this difficult situation. This has affected me, Mr Cap. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have signalled that over the next four years – it will of course be difficult to deal with the flood disaster, but also all the other economic problems – no euro will have to be spent on this procurement project! You should also tell the population that this would be serious and necessary in this situation. [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the near future, one should perhaps consider more clearly what is necessary in the field of safety and what is not necessary. I remember discussions a few weeks ago when we meant that 6 000 soldiers were enough. Ladies and gentlemen! If we had already implemented this, what would we have said to the people who now need the double of what we are described as necessary? [[Assured by the liberals and the public.]] That is why we cannot say in security policy what we need tomorrow and what we do not need. We have the responsibility to focus on a wide range of tasks and to carry out these precautions. I hope that the forgotten curve will not go too fast now. We will have to evaluate exactly what we need for the future, and then all of us will have the responsibility to do what is necessary so that we can provide the people with protection and help wherever they need it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5565	There will now be four more words, for which 8 minutes are available according to agreement. We must therefore accommodate 32 minutes in half an hour, but we will certainly do so. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5590	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, under the impression of the dual flood within five days it is relatively difficult to find the right words here. I have experienced this double disaster in my home town of Schwerberg. However, at the beginning of my remarks, I would like to make it clear that all that I have experienced here in Swordenberg, in view of the events that I have experienced in Swordberg, applies without exception also to all other affected areas, regions, communities and businesses and, above all, to all the seriously affected people in Austria. The people in Schwerberg were surprised by a first flood wave, before which they could quickly get to safety. The second wave of floods then took away what was still present in the apartments, in the businesses and also in the public institutions, which is sustainable. In addition, when we saw the full extent of the disaster, the enormous fear of the workplace came immediately. In Schwerberg alone, 3 000 jobs are affected; employees in the companies have immediately returned from vacation. The largest company had a business vacation, and its employees are now working with mere hands to get their company clean again and to be able to take it over again. The companies have – thank God! – said they confess to this location. But they have made a very, very essential request by saying: If we are to stay here, massive flood shields must be built and very intensive flood protection measures will have to be considered. It is simply not to be seen that thousands of people have to fear for nights some fish ponds of which every 100 000 cubic meters of water carries and whose dams threaten to burst. There is now a real need for intensive measures to ensure that jobs and local firms are preserved. About 40 smaller businesses, including innhouses, butcheries, bakeries, were practically cleared by the water masses. We actually had and currently have no close care. Yesterday was an innkeeper with me, who said: Six months ago I opened my place, I have 3 million schilling debts, and now I need about this amount again. The old debts are not washed away, the new ones are coming. – She said: I can't even stop because my husband and I can't repay these debts. – You have to imagine this situation! And now the people who are seriously affected in their existence hear that they will only get between 20 and 50 percent. This is a new disaster for these people! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: More!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No one said that!]] – This is always heard, Mr Westenthaler, and these figures are swirling around. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that? Much more!]] In our communities, the infrastructure is permanently destroyed, the railway network, the roads, the public institutions. In my community alone – and this certainly applies to everyone else – the damage amounts to approximately €4 million, which is half of the community's budget. How will this be compensated to enable people to return to normal life? Ladies and gentlemen! If these completely innocent people are not fully replaced, namely 100 percent, then there will be no more existence for many. Then they will be massively affected in their existences. Your life's work is destroyed. Imagine the following: You'll be finer in the night, jump out of your house, can only save yourself more and see how what you've created in years is simply driven away from the water, destroyed and gone! If the term "solidarity" is important in Austria, then now when it comes to helping the people concerned and not burdening them through repayments for years. There's nothing else to do with it. There are other expenditures, too. That's why I really ask you: Total damage minus insurance, minus public donations and donations – that is the sum that must then be replaced, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The SPÖ never did that in the government!]] I no longer trust myself to address this issue, but the Federal Government has presented us with a financing model for the combat aircraft. Why is there no financing model for a 100% compensation for flood damage? – It is incomprehensible for people to say that they are suspending the tax reform. People continue to pay the same tax and receive only a certain percentage of compensation. What does that bring to these people? You don't understand, either, when you say: Then we just buy 18 instead of 24 interceptors. – Do we need them or do we not need them? You know what we need? – We need functional establishments, we need reopened shops, and we need decent and habitable apartments. That's what we need! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Many thanks have been expressed today, ladies and gentlemen. There's nothing to add to this here, because it would go far beyond the time frame if I were to add everything – from the private to the public – again. Disdain in front of the fire brigades! Remember, too, when firemen come back to us and need a new car or new device! Respect for our soldiers, who have handled with flexibility, with commitment, with truly great skill all the deployments and hopefully continue to cope with them! I thank all the other assistants: I would like to thank the "Volkshilfe" for providing the relief forces, the Red Cross for medical care and the Gendarmerie, which unfortunately came a little too late, because we do not have a post in the village. [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] But when she was there, she made a very important contribution to safety. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There's still a lot of things to say here. Let me mention two more demands. First: In the event of disaster, we need a common frequency for understanding. Power away, phone away, phones away – and there is no way to connect all the forces to a frequency. - That's the one call. And the second requirement is that the workers are necessarily exempted from their work, that they receive pay advances and that employers are also compensated for by these funds. That is why, first of all, I am bringing forward a motion for a resolution by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr Cap, Mag. Gässner and colleagues, whom I have just explained in his key points, are concerned with the exemption and compensation of our assistants. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Talk time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, Of course, we agree with the resolution of the government groups on the EU Solidarity Fund. However, I would ask you to support our motion for a resolution on this, which will continue and help faster. [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] I would like to put this to you by saying: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5735	Mr Gaßner, your speaking time...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5751	Furthermore, this request also concerns the support of areas not yet defined as an EU target area, in particular.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5781	The first motion for a resolution has been presented, is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. This application shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5876	The second motion for a resolution has been properly tabled but has not been read in its full text. I shall proceed in the same way as the motion tabled by Mr Westenthal: The request will be duplicated and will also be negotiated and voted. This application shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5935	Mr Magistrate has now come to speak. Oh, my God, I'm sorry, I'm - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e5956	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! If you let the last ten, twelve days of revue happen, then you will be able to get rid of some of these dramatic images, so I think if you have been there yourself, if you have seen this suffering yourself, if you have experienced all this yourself, you will probably not get rid of it for a whole lifetime. This is the one side, ladies and gentlemen. However, if one sees a few days after the disaster, with what optimism, with what confidence people from free parts, with their own strength, with the help of the population, with the help of the fire brigade and with the help of the German army, go to reconstruction, one realizes that the creative power of the Austrians is unbroken. We can rightly be proud of this Austria and this population! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I think that at this hour, in which we reflect on the dramatic events, there is no room at all for populism and for party-political hack. That is why I do not understand some kind of debate with God. It's not the time to distribute here and assign debt. This government, the crisis staff, the mayors and the national leaders – all responsible – have done their best. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] These are the facts, no one can pass that. I know that Mr Gaßner was in service for hours, days and weeks. He has done good work on site – like many others. But it is necessary to spread uncertainty and ask: What will the government do now, what will it do in this national effort to make money? Will that be only 30 percent or will it be 35 percent? – Ladies and gentlemen, I can assure you today from this point of view: This will be an aid program that will surpass all that has been done to date. We will work determinedly and consistently to make the flourishing landscapes in Austria the way they used to be. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This will not be done at some point in time, but it will be the case in the foreseeable future. For this reason, the Federal Government has rightly decided in its crisis meetings that many things have to be resettled and that the construction of Austria's priority. I just can't understand that someone's coming to the speaker's desk here and saying, There are still so many doubts! that even parts of the SPÖ, as I could read in the media, were asked to receive € 10,000. But this is a wrong policy, ladies and gentlemen. It should not get every €10,000, but everyone should receive the maximum amount so that their personal environment, their workplace, their home is restored. That is the statement; I would warn against treating everything the same way. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the last few days you have seen a lot of different pictures: affected, desperate faces, hearty faces and people with courage who have given others courage. And there were heroes on the way too. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, who is a hero of new stamps? – A hero of new embossing is someone who, for example, helps with the fire brigade and takes care of his own home and forgets about his own work. These are the true heroes, and they actually deserve an order. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I am very grateful for the rapid decision on emergency aid. The population has realized that there are three different stages. First of all, it is said to be "playing a crisis fire brigade", also financially, with donations, with public resources to ensure that people eat, drink, have accommodation, clothing and do not have to freeze during this weather. – This emergency aid programme has already been decided. Secondly, an emergency aid programme is needed for businesses. The damage commissions are all on the road to raise the amount of damage. I can report this from my home town of Gars at the Camp and from the Kamptal. That worked first-class there. Second wave – emergency aid for the economy: This package has been chained. Third wave: Long-term aid to largely repair the damage. This is the program that will run the next weeks and months to restore the original state as soon as possible. But at this point I also have to say: As a responsible politician, as a government politician, we cannot leave the European Union out of duty. If there are such disasters on its own territory and if one feels that the Union is moving, then it would be a very bad experience for Austria and also for Germany if this solidarity cannot be demanded. Then, next time, you will find yourself in a disaster that happens in France – hopefully not for a long time – or in Italy or in Spain, too. The European Union then has nothing to do with it, then you have to ask yourself: What does a Union need? Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that this point will also be given a satisfactory solution. I am convinced that our government team with all the rigour, with all the acribie behind it, is also calling for a solidarity contribution from the Community. Personally, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, who was on the way, who visited businesses and who could make himself a picture of the damage: just in terms of how to help quickly. Personally, I would also like to thank Mrs Vice-Chancellor, who has been with me on the spot for a few days with the affected population, for seeing how difficult it has been for one person or another, who has set people up and given them courage. That, I think, was important at that hour. Money alone is not, even if we are trying to help everywhere. It is also the confidence that we must express as a responsible politician. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor has done excellent work in a crisis situation. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Fischer gives the bell sign.]] – I am coming to the end, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We still have great challenges to face, but I am sure that these will be successful with the boundless willingness of the Austrians to donate, with a determined federal government and with a targeted reconstruction programme for Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6113	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Speech time: 8 minutes. I agree with the conclusion that I want to proceed in such a way that the two remaining speakers should also have their agreed speaking time of 8 minutes, even if that means that we are only beginning with the debate on the urgent request a few minutes after 14 o'clock. I assume that Mr Cap agrees, especially since we have three hours at our disposal for the next item on the agenda, which we will probably not fully exploit. Please, Mr Dr. Stummvoll.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6141	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! In the last few days I have experienced in my constituency, in the forest district, in the Kamptal, in the Wachau, in the upper forest district, in Zwettl and in Weitra, what immense forces of nature have become free – forces of which I would have believed, there is no such thing if I had not experienced it myself. The life elixir of water – without water there is no life – has suddenly been wrong: people have taken their lives, brutally torn away their homes, houses and workshops. On the other hand, I have experienced an incredible power of helpfulness, co-humanity, charity, something I could not have imagined in this dimension. I was particularly impressed by a young host, Mrs. Monika Weidegger in Steinegg in the Kamptal, whose operation was completely destroyed, which on the third day after the flood wave meant: On the first day I cried out of despair, today I cry – and these are tears of envy – in the face of the great help that comes to me from all sides. - Quote. I would like to say it very flat-rate: I would really like to thank all, starting from the crisis management of the Federal Government and the national leaders, the volunteer fire brigade, the federal army, the Red Cross and thousands of volunteers, including many young people who have said: We do not have money to donate, but we have our two hands with which we can pack and help. All of you have the highest recognition and the highest appreciation! We are proud that we have such fellow citizens in our country! [[I should like to congratulate the EIA, the Greens, and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We could not have found a better time for the introduction of the Bundes-Honormark – as sad as it is – than this time, because there are probably thousands or tens of thousands of people who we deliberately want to ask as models of a civil society in front of the curtain, a civil society in which we were able to experience again that our society, our economy lives on the fact that we have people who do far, far more than they need to do. I'm putting my hat in front of all these people! [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, namely the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on European Union, and the Treaty on European Union on European Union and the Treaty on European Union on European ……]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course – we have already discussed this today – this natural disaster, this largest national disaster since the Second World War, has been in time – I emphasize: time! – Priorities changed. The strategic objectives of the Federal Government – stability-oriented budget policies, citizens' and businesses' discharges, investment in the future – remain valid. But if disaster aid, flood aid, the reconstruction of whole regions are a priority, then everything else must be temporarily temporary, ladies and gentlemen. That's so simple. The reconstruction has absolute priority! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That's not such a big contradiction at all. If we say that a strategic goal of this government is to invest in the future, then we must bear in mind: This reconstruction programme is also an investment in the future! We give people confidence again, we give people hope for the future. You can rely on us. The tax policy measures we are going to take are of course not a general tax reform, which, like the foundry, will take steps to ensure that, after that, everyone pays a few euros less taxes. Instead, we have the opportunity to help very specifically those most in need of assistance, as well as tax policy. I am therefore very grateful to Mr Bundeskanzler for explaining that the duration of the economic recovery programme of the Federal Government, which is to a great extent also a structural programme for the economic location of Austria and for the jobs in that country, will be extended. This applies to all jobs and not only to those in the disaster areas, ladies and gentlemen. This is responsible politics, politics as a future design! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I would also like to say the following: I was very pleased, Federal Chancellor and Mrs Foreign Minister, when I got the information that we were able to confess the European Union, to which we have made our full heart – but which we have often said ourselves, in fact, it does not treat people as people expect – to convince them that, in addition to a Stability Pact, it is also a solidarity pact. That was our initiative! – Mr Bundeskanzler, Mrs Foreign Minister, thank you very much for this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I am also very pleased that the Minister of Economic Affairs has worked with which cooperation has worked as excellently in the case of crisis as with the Minister of the Interior and with the coordinator of assistance, as with Minister Molterer, also with Minister Scheibner and others. I should also like to say a word about the situation in the workplace and to include something that Mrs Vice-Chancellor has said very correctly. Mrs. Vice-Chancellor rightly said: People have lost everything, just not their loans. – We should think about this sentence very, very long. I can't tell these entrepreneurs and private people – I admit it openly, I don't mind telling these people –: You don't have your machine anymore, you don't have your factory hall anymore, but you still have the credit. And now you get a second loan interest grant. – That’s impossible! No calculation can show that you can survive with the double credit for a machine, for a factory hall, for a house. Further assistance is needed here, and I thank you for the fact that every member of the government has said again and again: What we put here is a first step. If necessary, we will provide further help. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! People expect more help in their distress! Last Friday, for example, I almost returned to Spitz after the resignation when an entrepreneur told me: "Lord, ladies and gentlemen, let's just give up our letters at the post office; our company, which I and my employees never give up!" – We must not let this spirit of entrepreneurship, this spirit of departure, this confidence be disappointed and we will not be disappointed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I think we should call out to all the people in our country who have become victims of this disaster: We're not leaving you alone! Politics doesn't leave you alone! You can rely on us! This country is in good hands!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6267	The next speaker is Mrs Glawischnig. Same time of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6288	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very difficult for us, as people who have not experienced this catastrophe in the near future, to feel what the people affected by it feel who have lost everything that has lost their economic existence and their personal possessions and possessions. This despair on the one hand and this optimism on the other, on the other hand, is simply not understandable for us politicians from this point of view. The only thing we can do is say: We have great respect and respect for all the people who now have it behind us and for the reconstruction of their economic existence, for the re-establishment of possessions and good. And we have great respect for all those who have helped on the ground, for the helpers who have been on the spot in the affected areas. But it is still very difficult for us politicians to understand this whole despair. However, I do not want to spare ourselves some of the questions that are very essential from my point of view. As greens too, they are very essential to me, namely: What could we have avoided in the past? Would there have been something avoidable? Did we really do everything to really avoid or mitigate the effects of such "natural disasters" – under quotation marks? It is a fact that is actually undisputed among scientists and experts: We didn't do everything! There is also a great deal of responsibility regarding our dealings with nature in Austria. We also have to assume this responsibility – not only in beautiful speeches now, but indeed from today also in the future! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] How much is going on about such disasters? What does it mean to have taken away 5 percent of the area of Austria from the rivers? What have we done with our waters in the past? What does it mean, Minister of the Environment, when 30,000 kilometres of river were installed, when 80 percent of the entire river basins have been installed over the last 45 years? What does it mean to have taken the rivers 400 000 hectares of floods, that is, 5 percent of the area of Austria? Wasn't that a mistake in the past? Can you just talk about it today? I think we got here today at a point where you have to say: We must change that in principle in the future! It's not just about a few pilot projects, a little ecological river construction, it's about a basically different way of dealing with nature. We can never control nature, we can only live with her. That is why I would like to know a few questions from you, Mr Environment Minister. You have already said a few words about this today, but some important questions are still open. Will there be ecological water construction in Austria in the future? Will you revitalize the rivers so far that we have a natural flood protection again? Will you prevent even small waters with reservoirs from being pushed into narrow lanes that natural retention rooms continue to disappear? Are you willing to do something in view of this immense amount of sealing? – A number in this context: We lose 25 hectares of soil and soil every day. This is, as it were, sealed forever and ever, and there can no longer swallow water. 25 acres every day! There has already been massive warning cries in this direction in recent years, but one has ignored these warnings to this day and has in no way drawn the right consequences. [[President Dr Fassleven takes over the chairmanship.]] We need a complete reorientation in our dealings with our waters and with nature in Austria! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I have heard a few approaches in this direction today, but I would nevertheless like to make a motion for a resolution – against this background the mistakes made in the past, which I hope we will no longer make them and take a different path in the future. I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you can accept this motion for a resolution. It is a programme for the future, because I do not think it is done to show concern only today. Of course, you have to help immediately, but you also have to take care of yourself. We must not repeat the mistakes of the past. And that was a whole bond, starting from the policy of dedication on the community level to the policy of spatial planning. A lot has already been discussed, for example: How can it be that the dikes are built up to the direct floody areas? What about industrial areas, industrial areas in the middle of floodwater areas? – That must no longer happen in the future! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Molterer, you said today that you believe that the last doubt is that climate protection is necessary and important. I would just like to say: Convince your colleagues in the Federal Government! In recent years, climate protection has not been worth a big deal to the Minister of Finance. I don't think it's good that Austria is one of the descendants in Europe in the field of climate protection. We must be a model! You will know what will happen in Austria in a hundred years if you do not succeed in finding solutions in this area – we are the last generation to be able to handle this in the first place –: In 2099, there is no glacier left in Western Austria! In the year 2099, essential parts will be murmured, no longer accessible, farms will be relocated, winter tourism will be broken if there is no radical rethinking at international level. We're the last generation that can set the course. I would ask you to assume your responsibility at the international conferences. Climate protection is a survival task, a task that we must also carry out in Austria for our grandchildren. I don't want my grandchildren to see any more glaciers in Western Austria. That's a terrible idea! Please, let's stick to it – and make yourself strict and do not only leave it with beautiful speeches! There must be a real paradigm change in our dealings with nature and the natural environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6428	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Glawischnig is sufficiently supported, in a sufficiently factual context with regard to the subject matter of the negotiations and thus also with regard to the further negotiation or the vote. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We are now entering the voting process immediately, and first of all we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the immediate relief programme for flood victims and the special programme on flood prevention. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, colleagues in support of volunteers and organisations in the use of disasters. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I note the unanimous adoption. (E 154.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Khol, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of an EU Solidarity Fund. I also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. . Once again, I adopt the unanimous adoption. (E 155.) . We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Petrovic, colleagues on the exemption of victims in the event of disaster. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Had it only always been so!]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: "Red-white-red!"]] We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues on floods in Austria, I. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is also the minority and thus rejected. [[Call the SPÖ: "Red-white-red!"]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No debt!]] We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues on floods in Austria, II. I also ask for a corresponding sign of all those who are in favour of this request. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Red-white-red! Nothing again!]] Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Glawischnig, colleagues in the field of nature protection against floods. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – I notice: That is the minority and therefore rejected. Request by Dr Alfred Gusenbauer, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on the purchase of interception hunters 744/A (E)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6573	We now proceed to the treatment of the urgent self-employed application 744/A (E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6749	I announce that the President-in-Office of the Council has agreed on the following Rules of Procedure: Applicant: 20 minutes, then an opinion by the competent member of the government: 20 minutes each, one speech per group of up to 10 minutes, then three members of the government at 10 minutes each and then the speeches of the group, while the remaining speaking time of each group must not exceed the legal limit of a total of 25 minutes. We are going directly into the debate. First, I give the floor to the applicant, Mr Dr Gusenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e6776	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For some time Austria has been dealing with the question of buying interceptors or new fighter aircraft, and a discussion has been held in the Austrian public to a large extent. There has been an independent popular desire imposed by the Minister of the Interior this summer, especially during the main travel period, for signature because he expected that there would be less signatures. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Free and the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Were you signed, Mr. Colleague?]] But more than 600 000 Austrians have not been able to sign this popular desire against the purchase of combat aircraft, and this is a very clear sign, ladies and gentlemen, that we should take seriously. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, it is necessary that we deal with the content of this popular desire today, it cannot be the case that the Federal Government is negotiating the purchase process – and the Austrian National Council is only dealing with this popular desire at a time when the government has already made all the decisions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Gusenbauer, did you sign in Corsica? Outside Corsica?]] That would mean that this direct-democratic means, perceived by more than 600 000 Austrians, is not taken seriously. And that's exactly what we don't want, my Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are discussing today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Why are so many people opposed to buying these fighter planes? – The large majority of the population is against this because the argument for buying these fighter aircraft is completely contradictory and completely out of context. Mr Bundeskanzler, I would remind you that you did not say too long ago that the Austrian neutrality would be about something like the Lipizzans and the Mozart balls, that is, part of the Austrian folklore. I also recall that your Minister of Defence said that the Austrian neutrality was already obsolete anyway. – And then, of the government parties, you want to explain to the Austrians that you want to buy these planes for the protection of this neutrality, which you have long wanted to dispose of? Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, no one believes this! If you are not neutral, you are not taken seriously in terms of the protection of this neutrality! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] On the other hand, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen: Which fighter planes are to be bought? – Very modern fighter planes are to be purchased, which are so "modern" that they are not in regular use with any army, i.e. that only prototypes of them exist. [[Abg. Young: Did your spin doctor tell you?]] The presentation of these prototypes also had to be postponed in August, i.e. recently, because of so-called childhood diseases. This means that Austrian taxpayers' money is intended to purchase combat aircraft for which Austria is to be the test ground for the children's diseases "one of the most modern" fighter planes. – This cannot really be our task, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The Minister of Defence has informed us what he needs these fighter planes for. He said that these fighter planes are needed, above all, for international combat use – and he has confirmed what the Minister of Finance has said before: that these aircraft are war equipment. [[Abg. Young: No!]] For war equipment, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to remind you of ÖVP and FPÖ, which is the core of Austrian neutrality: that Austria does not want foreign troops on its territory, that we do not want to be a member of a military alliance, and above all that we do not participate in any war. So, what about buying this war apparatus, Mr. Defence Minister?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] Because you're talking about "risk" and "challenges": Which country, which organization threatens the Austrian airspace, why buy such fighter aircraft? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Corsica maybe!]] Where is the "enemies" you've identified against which we should sit in the air? – The truth is that the security situation of Austria, embedded in the European Union and, if enlargement is not prevented by the FPÖ, surrounded by Member States of the European Union, is a much safer situation than has ever been the case in the past, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, we should not focus on fighting fictitious enemies in the air, but on the real challenges and dangers that threaten people on the ground. Especially during the previous debate, we discussed the great flood disaster in Austria. With great interest I have heard what the Minister of Defence has said: In the view of the Minister for Defence, there is no connection at all between the flood disaster and the purchase of fighter aircraft. Yes, Minister of Defense, then explain to us why the Austrian Federal Government decided, so to speak, at the height of the flood, that if this context did not exist, it would not be 24, but 18 fighter aircraft! And this after you've explained for months: 24 pieces – and no less! Such a relationship exists, because it is precisely the question of what the good tax money of the Austrians is spent on, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] To say that in the next four years no single euro will be spent on these fighters is essentially a dangerous threat, Mr Westenthaler, because that means that the cost of financing these fighter aircraft will be much more expensive. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They don't even believe this in Corsica!]] Although you are not willing to take up loans to relieve Austrian taxpayers, you are very willing to make new debts for the purchase of combat aircraft. In this your priorities become visible, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Young: What about the old debts, Mr. Gusenbauer, which you left us?]] If it is said now, Federal Chancellor, we must look at new priorities, and therefore, that the zero deficit is not a debate and that tax reform is not, then we should also point out the following: In a Carinthian-Vienna Ping-Pong between Mr. Westenthaler and Mr. Haider, it was discussed long before the flood disaster whether the budget deficit should amount to 25 or 45 billion schilling or 0.9 percent or 1.5 percent in this year. That is to say, the zero deficit has already been buried by this government long before the flood occurred in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. And this shows that you are trying to abuse this situation in which we are now in place in order to ensure that you do not achieve your government goals. This begins with the failure of the zero deficit and continues with the non-implementation of the tax reform and the failure to achieve full employment. That's the record of your government policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you stay in Corsica?]] If you, Mr Bundeskanzler, talk about priorities – and you say that the priorities have changed – I must tell you: Many who are in use today, many people who are affected, are already asking what this Federal Government is actually riding. The Federal Government informs us that there is no tax reform, and therefore the highest tax and tax rate for the smaller and medium-sized incomes remains. The much promised zero deficit does not exist, and full employment is not achieved either because unemployment is constantly rising. All of this is subject to a very legitimate objective, namely to the fight against the flood disaster, as you say. But what does this Federal Government do to abandon all the goals that would help the Austrians, but at the same time decide to buy the most modern type of fighter aircraft? No one understands this in our country, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore the rejection of this purchase becomes greater daily. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, this has nothing to do with party policy hack, because this is about setting priorities in our country's expenditure policy. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the liberals and the ÖVP]] Make yourself constantly and say: What the Federal Government is doing is in the well-understood Austrian interest!, and if the opposition makes a counter-proposal, the "Participative Hickhack!"I would like to say quite openly to you: This is a very moderate understanding of a developed democracy, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, during the previous debate, it was rightly pointed out how the Austrian population has behaved in recent days: solidarity, recognizing the need of the country, ready to help – whether through its own work or through donations. No one in our country – no matter what origin – has excluded itself from this solidarity. That is to say, the Austrians have once again proved that in a difficult situation of the country, they recognize exactly what to do. And now I ask you, Federal Chancellor – given the fact that in these times of distress, the Austrian population has again proved in a difficult situation that it can make the right decisions for itself and for everyone –: Why don't you let the Austrian people decide whether we're buying these fighter planes or not? Do you have no confidence in the Austrians? Are you afraid of their decision? Federal Chancellor! Imagine this dispute! In a referendum, let us decide the Austrian population: Fighter planes, yes or no? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If you are so convinced by the government parties that your arguments – which, by the way, believe an ever smaller part of the Austrian population – are so good, then we are facing this democratic competition! After all, this is an issue of around €2 billion, and this is more than is invested in many other important things in our country. Especially in a situation where we hear that the international economy is already in trouble again – Mr Greenspan warns that we are entering the next recession – in a situation where unemployment is rising and we have to deal with the consequences of this flood disaster, the question is right: In such a situation, does an Austrian government not have any priorities other than the purchase of these Sinteur fighter aircraft?- Oh, my God! Our priorities are clear: Flood protection and reconstruction Austria and, if possible, a tax reform are important than the purchase of these fighter planes, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you stay in Corsica? You'd be a philosopher!]] Mr Westenthaler, discuss this question in your own party! I can provide you with hundreds of quotations to guide your party friends that you should rather abandon these sin-teur fighter planes if you want to be on the side of the population, my Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Good color, Mr. Gusenbauer! Shining Sun in Corsica!]] [[Abg. May. Schweitzer: There was a lot of sun where you were!]] It is true that other states have similar discussions. Today we hear that the Government of the Czech Republic is considering whether the already decided purchase of 24 "grips" is to be carried out. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know how many planes the Czechs have? You know that?]] And there is the proposal of the Minister of Defence there, who says: Given this catastrophic situation in our country, where hundreds of thousands of people have become homeless, as the Czech Minister of Defence, I believe that there are other priorities and that the Czech Republic must therefore look for cheaper variants! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Do you know how many aircraft the Czechs already have? That's absurd! Czech Republic already has 200 planes!]] Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, that is the difference! They say: No matter how the situation is with us: Tax reform does not come, zero deficit does not come, full employment does not come! – What remains is – and that is just too symbolic for this government! – the purchase of combat aircraft! This is extremely sad, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] There are already many who ask themselves the question of how this happened at all with the purchase, which additional interests play a role. For example, with great interest I have read in the "Nederösterreichische Nachrichten" that the FPÖ Lower Austria has already nominated a "compensation business officer". – There is already the question of what this "compensation business officer" of FPÖ is doing now: Is he going to make any contribution next to the official agencies that care about compensation transactions? [[Abg. Boy: There you have experience!]] I can tell you what he's doing – we've asked ourselves: He only wants to know which companies receive compensation transactions, and he then forwards them to the competent bodies so that he can come into contact with these companies. – I don’t want to suspect for what purpose he wants to get into the conversation, but it seems extraordinary to me – extraordinary! – to be questionable that in compensation transactions between the economy, between the Republic of Austria and a foreign group, a party compensation business officer is now being used at once. [[Abg. Young: You have experience in the sector!]] – Make yourself a revel on this matter, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals: As the bad thinketh, so is he!]] Your argument is no longer in the front and back, and you feel it yourself, ladies and gentlemen! On Saturday, at the donation phone, a minimum pensioner called me and said: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In Corsica did he call?]] I am a minimum pensioner and can therefore only donate 100 €, but the "rest" we need for the reconstruction, you prefer that we do not purchase these senseless fighter planes! – And this caller was not the only one, ladies and gentlemen, who said that! That's what the Austrian population thinks! Mr Westenthaler, you yourself once said: There is no question that people cannot be put to the vote! – Why are you so coward at once? Why don't you trust to face the population? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Neutrality – yes or no? Let's make a neutrality vote!]] Why are you not willing to tell the Austrians: There are two proposals here: The government says no to the zero deficit, no to the tax reform, but yes to the fighter planes! – On the other hand, the Social Democratic proposal is to put the interests of Austria, the people, the economy in the foreground and to abandon the fighter planes. – Let us vote on this alternative! [[Lively welcome to the SPÖ and to the Greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where were you last week? In the hot sun of Corsica you have roasted while people have created here! In Corsica you were while people drowned here! In the sun of Corsica!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These fighter planes do not protect the neutrality – which this government wants to eliminate anyway – but they serve for international combat operations. For these fighter planes, the Austrian Federal Government is making new debts – and these debts are at the expense of small and medium-sized incomes in our country. This purchase of combat aircraft is a model example of the failure of this government. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Instead, make a referendum before you get presented with the invoice at a choice!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7206	On the issue of an opinion, Mr Bundeskanzler, Mr Schüssel, spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. According to the Rules of Procedure, the speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7228	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join with the previous debate in style and also seriously, because the question of national defence – that is, the security of Austria – is an issue which, in my opinion, cannot be brought to this level of party politics, as you, Mr Gusenbauer, have just tried. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! The security of a country, a comprehensive security, is a truly precious asset, and this includes social security as well. This means that people have the certainty of getting first-class medical care in the event of illness, and it is also the safety of not remaining unconcerned in old age, the safety of not being left alone in a critical situation. But this also includes ensuring that everything is done on the labour market: allowing us to have the necessary flexibility, setting a positive framework, those impulses that make Austria one of the most developed countries within the European Union. In the EU, Austria is known to be among the best three countries in terms of the labour market situation. This social security is part of an overall approach, as well as the security that young people can feel and also have the security to get a really first-class training. To do this, we are spending every seventh euro of the tax, which is ultimately redistributed in the budget. This security is one thing, but it must be nourished and supplemented by security to the criminals, to the victims, to the victims, to the risks both inside and outside. Ladies and gentlemen! Previously, all the political groups – there were impressive speeches from all four political groups in this context – praised the Austrian Federal Army's first-class performance on the green clover. I join this praise. But the German army, ladies and gentlemen, is not a residual force, which is to be used for work in a natural disaster, but the Austrian federal army has a state-politically important, yes indispensable task of guaranteeing the protection of the country! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Very right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Yes!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That was probably the founding fathers of the Republic, in a difficult situation: We hardly had the state agreement, the so-called B-Gendarmerie has been equipped to be already on the border in the most serious crises – in 1956 in the Hungarian crisis. Tired – in more difficult times than we did – the governments in front of us have equipped the Austrian army with airspace surveillance aircraft, with missiles, ground-air missiles that are necessary, with helicopters, with weapons, with security materials, with tanks and all that belongs to them. I say quite openly: This awareness of the founding fathers that a small country like Austria must be ready to support its citizens in all emergency and danger situations, I would like to see a large opposition party like those you are leading today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Gusenbauer! I know it's embarrassing to you, but do it. Please don't make the mistake – for our television viewers, just too much! – to give the impression here that some of those who were damaged by the flood would be more of a euro if we were to give up the necessary equipment for the federal army! [[Call the SPÖ: Why?]] I guarantee you here and today no harmer gets a euro less if we also take into account the needs of the police, the gendarmerie, the fire brigade, the executive and also the federal army. [[Abg. Edlinger: Who said that? - That's great!]] That's what we're standing for! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The basic question, Mr deputies, is: Is Austria obliged to protect its airspace – yes or no? – This question must be answered in advance if you put the cheap claim: [[Call the ÖVP: This is what it is about!]] Let us make a constitutional law – which would be a pure right of occasion; Mr President, that is the way it is!Use custom fonts; You have some praises; is this the way forward to you, one of the country's most renowned constitutional judges? – so that we can quickly hold a referendum! [[Call the SPÖ: Is that bad?]] – Shouldn’t we raise the question fairly beforehand: Is Austria obliged to protect its country, its territory, its population – yes or no? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This question has, by the way, been raised by Professor Van der Bellen, whom I expressly also here in the scientific discussion of the last few days and weeks. He said: Let's get some advice. What does the legal situation look like? Hiezu there is an impressive list of personalities – I have even received an opinion from the Constitutional Service – that range from Ermacora to Zemanek, from Verosta to Öhlinger, from Verdross to Heinz Mayer, all – without exception! – acknowledge this question and believe that Austria is, of course, obliged, on the basis of today’s constitutional situation, on the basis of the security and defence doctrine – which we have jointly decided – to protect its citizens and the country on land and in the air. [[Abg. May. Prammer: But not how!]] [[Abg. Young: (in the direction SPÖ) You have prevented this from sharing! You're right!]] One can of course discuss the question: What type of aircraft do you do with? What number of aircraft is necessary for this? – In this context, I would also like to thank the Minister of Defence for his not easy gestures to say: In view of this situation, we are reducing to the most necessary. – But I also say: If you're talking about "most necessary", you also have to look at yourself – here there are similarities – how other countries protect their airspace! Switzerland about: 5 million inhabitants – 84 aircraft. Hungary: 27 aircraft. Switzerland: 154 flyers. [[Abg. Edellinger: Switzerland twice?]] Finland: 64. Her illustrious example of Sweden – repeatedly mentioned – has 250 flyers. Belgium has 90 planes. And we will – that is the cheap reality that you have to look into, that is the truth – no longer have any aircraft that is fully operational from 2005 onwards! Can you really answer that? Do you want to answer that? - I'll ask you back. I'm telling you openly: I cannot answer that, and I will not answer it as long as I have such an Austrian, red and white government! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. You son of a bitch.]] Look, you always knew it – in the history of the Second Republic there were a lot of similarities, and that should not be kept silent either. We have negotiated a joint government programme in which it says that we want to buy helicopters and airspace surveillance aircraft – of course cost-effective, understands – with good economic counterparts. And we'll do the same. [[Call the SPÖ: "cost-effective"? - Great!]] Why do you say goodbye to the security policy continuity of the Social Democracy of the Second Republic, Mr Gusenbauer? I ask you, and this answer is just as guilty to the public as it is to the House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need aircraft because every year – in times of peace – about 20 to 30 suspicious movements occur in the airspace. [["Wow!"- Call at SPÖ.]] Of course, we could now say: Don't concern us. And: We're calling others to help! – But please, with what understanding can be Today, they conjure neutrality, and at the same time they say: But I am not interested in exactly this central aspect of neutrality!Unknown term type: "%s".? I am much more honest there, Mr Deputies. I say: Whether we are neutral or in a European defence alliance, such as the European Union – in any case, we would be obliged to protect our citizens and make a credible contribution – which costs something; that is what we are aware of! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In the following, I can quote what the Swiss Federal Council carried out to the Federal Assembly in 1960 – literally – as follows: "Neutrality law now requires that we leave no part of our territory, even the smallest for its purposes, to a war leader and, if necessary, restore the integrity of our territory. This leads to the conclusion that the army must be able to cover every part of Switzerland and prevent violations of our borders wherever it is. ... The neutral state area also belongs to the airspace above the same. It is therefore also necessary to protect against use by the war leader under neutrality law." There is nothing to add to this honest statement of the Swiss Federal Council, and I say quite frankly to you: As long as there is neutrality as a constitutional command, you are already obliged to protect the citizens on land and in the air. And if the time comes for us to join a European alliance – for example, the European Union that could develop there – we would only be quite obliged to make a credible own contribution! Therefore: This "Let's get it cheaper!", Mr Gusenbauer, this is cheap – too cheap for this country! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Now criticize that the "Eurofighter" has been chosen. To this end, I can say: You obviously change your line every few months! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What "line"?]] When we bought the helicopters that were necessary, which by the way my predecessor, Viktor Klima, at the time after the avalanche disaster in Galtür together with me in the Federal Government, the SPÖ spokesperson then criticized the acquisition of the "Black Hawk", an American product. I quote literally: Especially in times when Austria is increasingly trying to participate in its own European security system and in the autumn of the European initiative to cooperate in the arms industry, it would be incomprehensible for Austria's partners to choose against a European and a US product. - Quote. [[Call the ÖVP: Look!]] Now, ladies and gentlemen, we are participating in a European future project, which is also technically the most innovative and also economically brings the greatest opportunities – and you criticize it! Not even two years have passed, and you are already fundamentally changing your mind again! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is blamable!]] Deputies! I have the feeling that something else is actually behind it: For you, security measures, security policies are not really an issue you want to take seriously! This is also the reason why you have ultimately voted against any measure we have proposed in view of current threats: ==References== September we proposed the extension of the Security Police Act. – The SPÖ has rejected. They have rejected the creation of a Federal Criminal Office, which, of course, would have been out of dispute in the past. They have rejected the extended risk research that allows the police to store data on persons, which is important especially in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. They voted against the disguise ban and thus did not support the fight against violent demonstrators. They rejected the new Security Doctrine and thus brutalized your own chief negotiator Caspar One who was not allowed to follow his own proposals. And the Federal Army also shows the same attitude: It's a seamless line! Whenever the Austrian federal army needs a decisive, significant investment, then first of all the SPÖ – at least you – is against it. That was the case with the helicopters. That was very, very critical of the ground-air missiles at the beginning, as you know. That was critical of the airspace surveillance aircraft – and that's it again. I say: If that goes on, then in reality everything that the Federal Government is doing internationally and nationally is being questioned! [[Call the SPÖ: The plane definitely!]] In recent years and decades, for example, the Federal Army has participated in 44 international missions, including very, very critical and dangerous ones. Nearly 50 000 Austrian professional soldiers have been in use, thus contributing to peace worldwide. [[Abg. And that without fighter planes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Without fighter planes!]] They were dangerous uses! This was not a war, but these were dangerous operations, which, if necessary, also included with UN mandates, with everything that belongs to it, very critical situations and wherever there were victims. The next populist could now say: That's what we're saving! It is enough if we help in Austria! I certainly say no to that! I think we need a fully functional army, one that is also equipped with the necessary equipment. That's what we're standing for, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Many, in particular the speakers of the Green Group, have just spoken about prevention. Yes: Prevention against natural disasters, for example, flood protection – close to natural construction – but please also prevention in security policy! [[Calls to the Greens.]] The whole Austrian army is a preventive measure, a safeguard measure so that it never comes to wars and crises that may affect the Austrian population once. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Therefore: Prevention yes – but then you have to invest something in this federal army too! Mr Gusenbauer! For me, the whole thing is a Déjà-vu. That's all there is. I would remind you of the following: In mid-October 1984, the decision on the purchase of airspace surveillance aircraft was pending. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Now the fisherman is coming!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The fisherman was the biggest fan of it, and the arbitrator!]] There was a dramatic meeting in the SPÖ. I quote a report from the "weekpress" of a journalist who is still active today. The then still bleeding boy Christoph Kotanko has written a brilliant analysis: At that time, there was an hourly debate in the SPÖ Party Board. A red capazunder explained afterwards: That was the longest and most controversial discussion I have ever experienced on the board of directors. In the end, the then SPÖ Chancellor, Fred Sinowatz, made his request to purchase 24 jets for the Federal Army with 50 yes against 4 no votes. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Josef Cap, where were you?]] On the other hand, of course, there were some known sizes, which we still know today in politics. – Mr Gusenbauer, you will find yourself here in a photo – it is of course a bad copy. [[The speaker keeps the copy of a newspaper article up to date.]] [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] They had the same argument at the time: Let's take a original vote! And: The Federal Chancellor – then Sinowatz, today I am on it – should not take it so seriously! One must listen to the mood and actually not do what is ultimately required of the state policy, of the state reason. At that time, there was a very intense debate, and the then editor-in-chief of the "Worker News" Scheuch wrote – and I would remind you today, Mr. Deputies! – the real reason for the major debate in SPÖ is perhaps a rejection of our federal army and our national defence. Such a defianceism is basically a deep blow against the new patriotism that our people have experienced after decades of self - doubt. Sheuch concludes that it would be time to think about the socialist attitude to defend the country. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: A sounding ear fig!]] Mr Gusenbauer! Nothing has changed about this – nothing! Josef Cap, today Klubobmann, said literally in 1995 in the "profile": I clearly took a position against the purchase of the interceptors. - Honourable. But if at that time the position Gusenbauer/Cap had survived, then a few years later Austria would not have had any airspace surveillance aircraft in the Yugoslavia crisis at all! After all, there were then injuries of the territory to Thalerhof! Her policy was wrong at the time, Mr Gusenbauer, and it is equally true today and again and again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] A quote below: I am not really aware of being a glowing militarist or an iron-eating commissary, but we cannot, in an environment where all countries take the national defence seriously, push them down to the level of a regional policy plot, because the only real consequence of that would be that, as a state with our national defence, we would not be taken seriously all over Europe, and for that I am not available! – End of the quote. Who said that? – Franz Vrannitzky in 1988. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] He could not know that with these statements he made a clear analysis of the SPÖ's safety policy line today.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7694	We are now going into the debate. I would like to refer once again to the Rules of Procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, including the agreement that no more than one actual correction per group will be called for. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e7728	I understand that you are giving each other courage – given the opinion that exists in the population about the plan of buying these war equipment. But there you have to clap for days to get even more courage! Federal Chancellor! You ran into something, and you don't come out anymore. If you are playing the arbitrator here and are always so instructive about the High House from the chancellor's position, I would like to tell you the following: [[Abg. Dr. Khol: So sad?]] You should respect that there is this mood in the population, and this has a reason! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Are we now for or against NATO?]] You have quoted 1984 and 1988 here, and you have pretended as if there had been no change since then. [[Abg. Young: In 1999 your head of government was still in charge! 1999: Climate!]] Due to your descriptions, I have already been formally scared in stages, because you have given an impression that we are surrounded by loud opponents and enemies who intend nothing more than to permanently harm the Austrian airspace than to march into Austria, as if new Turkish wars were at the doorstep – an absurd analysis! [[Abg. Young: Ask the climate!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You know very well that there was a radical geopolitical change in 1989/1990. [[Abg. Young: 1999?]] Communism has collapsed, the Warsaw Pact has collapsed, and the Cold War no longer exists! [[Abg. Young: You're ten years wrong, colleague Cap!]] [[Abg. Boy: That was ten years earlier!]] But you have described it here today as if we were still in the Cold War, Mr Officer! [[Call out to the liberals: Wake up!]] That's not true! [[Abg. Young: 1999 was quite different! There was New York! ... ten years later!]] [[The Twin Towers were 1999!]] [[Abg. Young: Wake up!]] It has changed a lot here: We're surrounded by friends. We are members of the European Union. It forms a European security system. [[Abg. Young: You don't want to participate in! To whom you do not want to contribute!]] And in fact, you didn't buy a "capture hunter" at all – that's the chuzpe! The real chuzpe towards the population, the real swindle is you didn't buy a interception hunter at all, but you – Mr. Finanzminister – now you have to take a hard time with your head – bought war equipment! [[Interlocutory calls at the EIA and the Free Trade Unions]] [[President Dr. Fassleven gives the bell sign]] Warrior you bought 13 suspensions for steering weapons! [[Abg. Young: Like the "war bridges" with the pioneers!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Colleague Cap! What are the "drugs"? Are the "drugs" not a war apparatus?]] The plane has 37 300 hp at both engines! You need 15 minutes from Vienna to Bregenz! Once the pilot sniffs, he's in Zurich! – That’s the truth! These are the planes you bought! [[Cheerfulness and applause at SPÖ.]] This aircraft is a highly agile fighter aircraft with extremely high load capacity. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What about the "draken"? Is that a peace fly, or what?]] It is used with heavy weapons systems for the fight against precision – and someone wants to tell us from the government bank that it is an air police officer who is monitoring a little, waving a little with the wings and then landing again. – That’s absurd! You know exactly – and there is no expert round, Mr Officer; You must confirm this once! –: If someone starts in Preßburg who wants to hurt us and wants to make an attack in Vienna – like on 11th. September in New York – then he'll be here in two, three minutes! [[Abg. Young: On 11. September which year was that?]] You can't stop it with anything, and you can't even stop it with these sintorous fighter planes! The acquisition of these fighter planes is absurd, and it is in the face of the flood disaster of pure cynicism! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What if he comes from elsewhere?]] – This is the truth you stand before! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Jung: Mr. Cap,...! You're the only cynic in this house!]] You know all of this, too. Look at this. The zero deficit has gone wrong, the tax reform is going to bathe, the small and medium incomes are not relieved – but for that there are the fighter planes. That means: Saving packages for combat aircraft, even in the future! – This is your program because you have been running because the ideology of this government is! They also played with you, Minister of Finance, because the hooper of "no fighter aircraft" is the most expensive and most modern, that's a good joke! [[Abg. Young: Just like the one from Cap of NATO to neutrality!]] I can only say: You can only walk on the street like that! This bitch doesn't make you feel bad! You have lost your credibility! Minister of Defense Scheibner tells us: I don't give up on a fighter plane! – Suddenly, however, six fighter planes are less likely to do so. How did Christoph Kotanko, whom you praised recently, write in the "Kurier"? He said: So what's now? Instead of 24 going 18? "Why 18? Why not twelve? ... Or two – one in the air, one in the ground?" [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: This is your level of discussion!]] That's what Mr Kotanko writes, and he's right! – He is not always right, but with this comment he was right. You should write this down once, Minister of Defence, which two fighter planes are supposed to be. - That's the truth you're standing in front of. And don't tell the Austrians that you're suddenly for neutrality! That's where the Mozart balls start rolling and the Lipizzans start waving! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] That's ridiculous! For you, it was always only folklore – and now suddenly you discover it? - Because you've been running because You must somehow argue that you need the fighter planes! You know what? Put your energy into combat aircraft in your own party, in the ÖVP and in the FPÖ! Van Staa from Tyrol allows: Well, now let's leave this with the fighter planes! – And Jörg Haider anyway. This is against everything the government does; that should give the FPÖ a thought. Kabas, too, is opposed and says that we should make a vote. It's going down and over, Mr. Arbitrator-Bundeskanzler! Finally, make sure in your government, in the two government parties for order – and do not constantly teach the opposition here in the house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But you teach not only the opposition, but you say – and this is a mental attitude that bothers me so much, apart from the fact that it is a scandal for democracy – well, knowing what the mood is in the population: [[Abg. Boy: You're still uninstructable!]] We have this popular desire carried out at the end of July/beginning of August, because there are all at the geesehüfel, in Caorle or elsewhere, but at least not in the registration sites. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In Corsica!]] [[Call the ÖVP: In Corsica!]] This is simply and simply a democratic scandal – but still 624 000 Austrians go and sign! This is a clear sign of distrust of this government, but also a clear protest towards the undemocratic Minister of the Interior, who is not sitting here at all. [[Abg. Young: And the 800 000 that were at the time of the nuclear power station, you have...?]] This should actually be sitting here, because he has to be responsible for the fact that this was done at that time. But, Mr. Federal Chancellor, I looked at this one "cib 2" you had to deal with with Mrs. Thurnher. Mrs Thurnher has dared to say that you have to say – because you treat the ORF as if he were your private property – to ask a question critically to the interceptors. [[A lively ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Weekly countries]] And then the Lord Federal Chancellor comes and measures them, saying: Mrs Thurnher, I would ask you not to take over the Jargon of the fundamental opponents of the Austrian federal army! [[Abg. Boy: He was right!]] [[Call the SPÖ: A cowardice!]] The word "Jargon" is used for the Gosse! "Jargon" – that makes "the down there", somewhere, on the line! That's Jargon! This word is used for it! – And that, I think, is scandalous that you do not even want to allow critical questions if you are an interview partner! [[Objection to the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But I understand why you're doing this: Three quarters of the Austrians don't want to buy these fighter planes – I understand – and there are a lot of journalists who don't understand that either – there are certainly some of them sitting here in the room on the press gallery. They don't understand either! This is why: Your motto: Switching in the media! Make sure that where pressure can be exerted is simply so reported, even if that is not the reality! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You know yourself well!]] But even if They say to them a hundred times: Today the sun does not shine, look out, it does not shine!, and it shines, and everyone sweats, and it shines until they are finally ready to do so: You will get into a shale, because Austrian journalism is critical and independent enough, and you will also get many unpleasant questions from the journalists because your policy is the way it is! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP.]] And it is critical to question – not only from the opposition, not only from the population, but also from critical journalism! Let the freedom that this journalism can also be critical, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Kiss: Why don't you go to the dancer? ...it would do at least as well!]] We requested the special session today, and I believe that was necessary. Of course! This has also given us the opportunity to discuss the issue of interception hunters in connection with the flood disaster. It is also a sign to those who have signed this popular desire. We will continue this fight! And because you've always come with the past, I'm saying, There are so many good decisions that were once taken by the government under the Social Democratic leadership. At last take this one, continue this one here! – The one point I am critical of, where I think it should not have been decided, namely, on the purchase of interception hunters – no matter what year, and not even in 1999 – to bring All the time! There's a quote from a Social Democratic Chancellor suddenly right! That's where we're quoted – never else! Make Other It's always like: Igittigitt! Bäh! I don't want to be reminded of this time! I can't remember! [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You were already in the government with the Social Democrats, Mrs Rauch-Kallat! You were Secretary General when there was the great coalition! You too should do memory exercises and remember this time! It can't have been all bad in the fourteen years coalition as you present it today! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] But that you are the main responsible for debt policy, which is now to be written down – and which has nevertheless been in the area of Maastricht criteria – you should finally admit that! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the liberals]] That is the truth, and that is why you now have these problems! That's why I can only tell you: Make a change of course at last! But you will not create it, and it is better, the voters will show you the invoice on the election day, so that this black and blue experiment at the expense of the Austrians, so that the Austrians and Austrians will finally come to an end! I think that's time!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8225	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Schweitzer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8247	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that Mr Cap's last sentence on debt policy and the total debt of the Republic of Austria, for which he wants to make the government now in office for three years, shows that colleagues should not always take Cap seriously! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Young: Less and less!]] Mr Cap! If a party like the SPÖ 30 years – and a good part of it, you were there yourself! – was represented in the government and has accumulated an almost legendary debt, which is the one that has been hit by current generations, if many now have to contribute to finally curbing the debt, and if there is a finance minister sitting here who has achieved a goal you only dreamed of by the SPÖ, namely the zero deficit, and then this is said to mean that you no longer take yourself seriously! And that's what everyone in Austria should do! That's why my appeal is: Please don't take colleagues Cap seriously anymore! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I have here a multi-page collection of Mr Cap's comments on neutrality and membership in an international defense system, starting with 15. September 1990. And this collection also proves once again that what Mr Cap said yesterday no longer applies and that everything he said in total is not serious, because he has repeatedly adopted it: whether it be the neutrality or the membership of Austria in an international defense system. Mr Cap, everything you said has been held, and it is not serious to take it – the Austrians know that – because tomorrow you are no longer standing up to what you say today! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a Constitutional Law, and this is still in force. This Constitutional Act, which deals with the ever-increasing neutrality of Austria, still lays down the obligation to monitor airspace, which is necessarily due to the legal obligations of neutrality. Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer as the great guardian of the Constitution! Those who want to be consistent must at least accept airspace monitoring and safeguarding the Austrian airspace as an integral part of the Austrian security policy, at least as long as we are neutral! But, well, let's debate the future! – Do we want to be neutral in the future, or do we want to be a member of an international defense system in the future? Who was the one who abused this debate in 1999 just before the election to the European Parliament? You from SPÖ have been the top guardians of Austrian neutrality, and therefore you must accept this post-purchasing not only for these reasons, but also because you laid the foundation stone for it! In 1975 you and your predecessors laid the foundation for the current obligations resulting from Austrian airspace surveillance! Mr Schieder, I feel it is a bit unfair that you are sitting here today, but now not all of what you said here from this speaker's desk with full conviction, because you are in favour of neutrality, repeat! And Mr Fischer escapes the discussion at all. This colleague, today President of the National Council, then Klubobmann, asked whether the acquisition of surveillance aircraft is necessary or not, that there is a question of total Austrian national defence and state political responsibility. – However, ladies and gentlemen of the Reds and Greens, you have long passed! And that's sad! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Mr Colleague! I believe that the protocol is important: the importance of the SPÖ Group on this issue is that the half of the group is not here!]] It's common! Mr Gusenbauer! It's all you want to do is stage a spectacle here. You would have come to the special meeting last week. Then the special session was cancelled in view of flood problems. But you, Mr Gusenbauer, have preferred to stay in Corsica and not come – like other responsible politicians – to the floodlands. They were in Corsica and obviously got too much sun there! The statements you delivered today, at least, point to that! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let us now also come to the small opposition party! Mr Van der Bellen, I am already curious about how you will say yourself today when it comes to this state-political responsibility and when it comes to discussing whether airspace surveillance is a matter of international sovereignty. They said that it was probably so, and that, if constitutional lawyers were to believe that aircraft were needed as airspace surveillance for neutrality reasons, they would have to bite into the "acid apple". Your not very distant constitutional lawyer Heinz Mayer answered you: The need for airspace surveillance interceptors is given for neutrality reasons. – This has been answered by constitutional lawyer Mayer. Mr. Schieder! Obviously – and this is important to me – you also knew this responsibility when it came to developing this program, known to you in Rosa. It is this text for a government program, which is accorded between ÖVP and SPÖ! Not from some time, colleague Cap, but from 18th century onwards. January 2000. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Thank God it is not in power!]] In this programme, developed between the SPÖ, the Social Democracy, which is represented here, and the ÖVP, there is a clear commitment to the acquisition of interception hunters, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Do Now But you're like you weren't there! Everyone is perceiving your double-beddedness! Your double game is clear, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It can't be that easy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But You don't even notice how ridiculous you are in this discussion! The proposal to finance aid to the flood victims with the money for the purchase of interception hunters or, as Mr Gusenbauer has said today, to finance the tax reform with the money from the sale of interception hunters, let me – apologise! – at least to doubt your intellectual honesty, Mr Gusenbauer! These proposals cause me to doubt your intellectual honesty, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] This is a huge flood of damage, the amount of which goes to several billion euros, and this damage has to be fixed at the same time and the funding for it has to be done as quickly as possible. This federal government has done this. – But you want to finance this with the money from the catch purchase! Mr Cap! I would like an opinion from you! – This Federal Government has immediately made more than € 1 billion available – that is more than the volume of a half tax reform – in order to be able to provide emergency aid. They say: Let's finance the whole thing with the money for buying the interceptors! – The first rate of exactly €200 million, Mr Cap, will be due in 2006. I ask you to explain to all the people how you want to compensate flood victims today, in 2002, with the money that will pay exactly €200 million in 2006! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Maybe Gusenbauer can be enchanted!]] I am glad that there is this government – and not you are in the government! People would have to wait for you for four years and then have 200 million € at their disposal. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This Federal Government has managed to provide more than € 1 billion of emergency aid and to put in place many other important accompanying measures that help to reduce suffering and start reconstruction as quickly as possible. – Your proposals, on the other hand, are unacceptable once again! Finally, I would like to say the following, Mr Cap! Mr Gusenbauer: I know why you always want to debate the interception hunters because you have nothing, but really nothing you can offer to the Austrians. All that exists when you come is hashish in trafiques, is a car tax for the comrades, which would make up 15 000 to 20 000 s of extra burden per year, is the end of the co-ordination in schools, is a majority voting right with which you want to sit alone in Parliament. – This is all that has come from a SPÖ in the last weeks and months! That is poor, and this also knows the population, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8380	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Khol. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8401	Mr President. Gentlemen at the ministerial bank! Ladies and gentlemen! A Finnish statesman once said: Each country has aircraft in the air: either its own or that of another country. – I’d rather, we’ve got our own airplanes in the air! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is a key point, and this is also in line with the constitutional obligation. Whether we are neutral or in an alliance or completely alone and unbound: It is part of a country's commitment to protect its sovereignty, with all the means at its disposal. This is in the Federal Constitution, Mr Gusenbauer, and it is intellectually not correct if you are always quoting only those parts of a law that fit you! The Federal Constitution states that the independence and inviolability of the Austrian territory must be defended with all available means. – And this constitutional obligation has caused the skrupel of the head of the Green Party, Professor Van der Bellen. He has read the Constitution completely, and he has also understood it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Faith You really think it's a question of psychological and physical pleasure for this federal government to have to buy interception hunters to replace the "drake" provisorium? [[Abg. Grade: Apparently already!]] The "drakes" – today you can say – cannot fly at night and in bad weather and were always thought of as a provisional. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: By the way, it is also "warring equipment" – and not peace fighters!]] Since 1984, we have wanted to acquire modern equipment for Austrian safety. Of course, if the eternal peace had broken out, we would be much better off than Al-Quaida, and there would be no more terror, as the Bible says, to forge the swords into plowshares and into harvesters. We'd rather do that too! But we, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap, cannot represent a policy of feelings and moods, because, together with this Federal Government, we bear responsibility for the security of our countrymen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As unpredictable and unpredictable as natural disasters are: They're coming! I agree, of course, with many things that have been said by several political groups, including the Greens, that we are, for example, preemptively extending the reservoirs of retention and more like things, because we do not know whether such a flood is coming again in this century. God forbid! But, of course, we are taking preventive measures. Someone who owns a house or an apartment, of course, completes a household insurance or a fire insurance. He hopes it will never burn and never break in. Many of us have such an insurance, although it has never been burned and has never been broken in. And so do we see the airspace surveillance and the purchase of the interceptors. The funds we spend on this correspond to what is spent in each household on the insurance of one's own property and property. This is, as it were, a premium for the security of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have already said that it does not mean physical or psychological will to acquire these devices. And as Alexander Van der Bellen said: If it is a constitutional obligation, the greens will bite in the "aure apple". – In the same way, Heinz Fischer, who is not here now and who is deprived of this discussion, which is embarrassing for him, has negotiated with us in 1999 when we have written the commitment to the withdrawal buyings in the government programme, which has not been achieved then. He also said, of course, that he too, like the greens, would have bitten into the "aur apple". And I'll tell you: Every party that bears responsibility in this country and is not in the opposition does not come about this responsibility! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It may be popular, it may correspond to feelings or not, but the Federal Government bears responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Do you have a problem with the feeling, Mr. Klubobmann?]] And if, hopefully, the case never occurs, but perhaps sometime we'll have a terrorist attack like that of the 11th. September, when an airplane was flying in Austria – which we would have seen with the "gold hood", with the radar system operated by our Federal Army, of course, long before – and we would not be able to intercept it, then you would be the first to blame us for cheap populism and say that we would not have assumed the necessary responsibility. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP and members of the liberals.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats! I admire your ability to apply for a special session on this subject, although you need to know that you are proving your left populism several times here! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Second arbitrator!]] You were first for the interceptors, now you're against it. They were against the popular survey first, since you are "on the record": No, we're not taking part! Gusenbauer escaped to Corsica. Or were you not in Corsica at the time, although I would have granted it to you? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: I was there!]] – You were there, but you didn’t sign! Then you've seen: Hoppla, there are signatures, and then you jumped onto the kickboard quickly. Now you're on the kickboard. First you were against the popular survey, now you are for it. And in view of the referendum you are calling for, Heinz Fischer, who is the Constitutional Legalist, because he knows very well that this is a breaking-up of the guiding principles of our federal constitution, is an impairment of exactly that division of power and of indirect democracy, of representative democracy that we have. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: For God's sake!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democrats, have demonstrated your populism again! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] Peter Westenthaler and I have with the clubmen Van der Bellen and Cap are negotiating the question of the democratic package. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mertel.]] We said: If a popular desire receives more than 15 percent and does not have a constitutional law on it, then there should be a referendum on it. Who rejected that? Who was against the referendum? Please, who? [[Call the ÖVP: The SPÖ!]] The SPÖ has rejected this, several times! So: Who was first for the interception hunters and then, first against the popular survey and then, first against the referendum and now for it? – Left populism, your name is Gusenbauer and Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I want Alexander. Thank Van der Bellen for his courage. It's a poisoned praise, I know, because of course you've been pumped back by your party right away. – In a summer interview, you presented the future programme of a green-red government: First: 3 to 6 cents for every kilometer of a car ride, i.e. the car tax, second: Hashish in the Trafiques, third: Increase in social security contributions and fourthly: Take-off hunters. Your group has only distanced itself from the interceptors: It stands as a hashish, it stands for higher social security contributions, and it stands for road pricing for cars. – We will remember that! Nevertheless, your courage is praiseworthy! On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, we will assume responsibility: first for the flood victims and for the reconstruction and then for the security of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8597	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8618	Ladies and gentlemen! Although Mr Khol has now praised me in this way, for the time being I do not think it is necessary to withdraw as a speaker of the Greens. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: Join us?]] Mr Khol! I listened to you with attention, and I think some of your arguments are worth discussing. At the end of the day, however, your speech was pure! – I do not blame you for reading interviews that I have given, but still allow me to put it right. It's true that we're also standing for cars for road pricing. The maximum limit is to be 3 cents, subject to wage and income tax, the margin is now created that this can also be lifted. The 6 cents related to trucks and buses, and, dear Mr. Khol, the sustainability programme of the Federal Government is nothing but that, namely a road pricing for cars, in other words: Kilometres in the sense of sustainability policy, which we are supposed to represent – as I thought two hours ago at the flood debate – all. So please don't accuse us of what is the official programme of the Federal Government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, It is true that I am looking at an increase in certain social security contributions, particularly in the field of health insurance, when and as soon as a discharge is created for lower and lower incomes. This is the idea that there is a certain relief for the lower incomes, for there it is noticeable. Wage and income tax hardly play a role in lower incomes. To this kind of politics I stand: Redemption for lower incomes and a solidarity contribution for medium and upper incomes. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Let's go of the other one, the interceptors! How much time do I have? – We have always been committed to decriminalising so-called soft drugs, especially hashish. That's what I'm standing for! Hashish, according to everything I know – up to teaching a better person – is less dangerous than alcohol. It doesn't make addicts, and all this doesn't apply to other drugs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kiss.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] But maybe I should come to these "Eurofighters" for a moment. Mr Khol! I consider the decision for the 24 "Eurofighters" – possibly 18 in the meantime, and perhaps only twelve in November, but I have to assume that what has been decided so far – for military policy wrong, for financial policy irrational, and for economic policy for an unauthorized first rank; then I come back to the end. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: And what do you think neutrality policy about it?]] Let me briefly explain the other points. I have recently referred to the economic policy aspect, especially the compensation transactions, which are referred to here as "Voodoo-Economics". – I now believe that this was too friendly! Voodoo are conjugation rituals in the Caribbean, in Haiti, which is said to be there, in which a medical man of a doll who sees someone similar puts a needle in the chest, and this person then becomes very ill or similar. [[Abg. Dr. Khol: In Haiti!]] I have been told that this kind of strange magic sometimes works, namely, if everyone believes that this magic works. – In that respect Voodoo is ahead of these compensation transactions, because the compensation transactions will never and never work in this way, and you know that very well! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] Perhaps it worked earlier, Mr Jung, in the fifties when the borders were closed, when there were customs duties and any exchange of goods was hindered or prevented. But in today's organized, globalized capitalism, it is excluded that any head or manager, even within a group, can be prescribed what he has to buy from which company. [[Abg. Young: But there are occasions!]] In any case, the information is widened and, if you are competitive enough to offer the appropriate quality at appropriate prices, you have an advantage. – But that’s all! Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, I am not aware of the name now, but it was a representative of the government parties who, in recent days, has seriously expressed the view that compensation operations are now being concentrated on companies of the flood-damaged regions. – Please forgive us with such a talk – I have to say – that’s why! It would be nice if that could work! But it certainly does not help, for example, a carpenter, a sawmill owner or a car dealer in the Kamptal. Thank you, Mr Jung, for agreeing at least on this point. [[Abg. Young: I agree with you!]] In short, financial policy: Mr Schweitzer knew very well that the rate payment in 2006 will amount to €200 million. – I wonder: Why? There is no purchase contract, there is no agreement with the producers of these fighter aircraft. That's a pure assumption! I assume that it will cost at least €400 million per year, counting on ten years, including maintenance, operation, maintenance and so on and so on. [[Interlocutors Jung and Böhacker.]] We of the Greens simply have different priorities. We think we should spend more on education and research. We know very well that demographic development, the reversal of the age pyramid will put us ahead of other requirements and will probably require more expenditure, especially in the field of health, pension provision and pension payments, in the field of education and so on. In view of this, we must turn around every schilling or every cent and every euro twice and not waste in this way! Military Political: Federal Chancellor Schüssel has rightly pointed out that the German army has proved successful in countless – including international – operations. And the Greens and I personally stand on the operations in Kosovo, Macedonia and last in Afghanistan! And it is true that not a "Eurofighter" and not a interceptor were involved in these bets! Instead, Austria has used its know-how, which it has acquired in the field of such operations for years and decades. In this area, we should continue to invest, for that I stand! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In this case, we will need a greater professionalization in the area of the federal army. In the long term, we need a professional army and not, so to speak, involuntary people. [[Abg. Young: How big is the professional army supposed to be, Mr. Colleague?]] For this I stand, and I also believe that in the medium term we will not be able to save much money from the German army – if at all. I say that unprotected, and many of my colleagues in the Greens will be amazed at it, but I think this is a realistic assessment. [[Abg. Young: These are approaches to discussion, Mr. Cot!]] In the medium term, there will also be a security and defence union after monetary union and after various other and successful efforts to bring together policies within the European Union, so to speak. I support it! I believe that this is a right and important objective – provided, of course, that the usual democratic chewing and regulations, such as responsibility to Parliament, are respected. However, I think it is quite unlikely that the contribution of Austria in this European Defence Union can be to contribute 24 "Eurofighters", but we will contribute to our previous know-how and our professional experience, which we have acquired so far, and will continue to specialize in this field, but will not make individual NATO countries "competence" – under quotations – in a field of which they know more about God! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Do you mean the neutral states?]] To the constitutional obligation: Mr Khol, you have quoted me in detail and time and again. My stand is now... – I am also able to learn! [[Abg. Dr. Khol: What do you mean by "middle"?]] My position is now the following: There are lawyers who either from the neutrality or from the sovereignty of Austria have certain obligations also in the so-called air surveillance – call it as you want! – deduce. Mr. Öhlinger of the University of Vienna, quoted by Federal Chancellor Schüssel, does not belong to my knowledge, at least if I have received his APA message of 20. On March 1, this year, he had a real head in which he expressly said that he felt that the procurement of this war apparatus could not be deduced from the neutrality of his opinion. Mr Khol, you have quoted my interviews in detail, and I am not wrong. Have you noticed, Mr Khol, that not one of these constitutional and international lawyers in Austria, who have already been quoted today, has said that the procurement of 24 fighter planes can be derived from neutrality or from sovereignty? In other words: The quality or quantity of such things is controversial, interpretable and can be designed by politics! That's what I'm going to assume, and that's why I'm saying, We do not need these combat aircraft in the context of the current "threat" of Austria – under quotation marks! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This cannot be seen independently of context! Austria is surrounded by EU members, it is in the midst of the European Union, if enlargement is going ahead in time, and in the midst of NATO members with whom we will never wage war. Mr Jung, I hope you will agree to this too. [[Abg. Böhacker: Now the tires squeak well!]] Today we need fighter planes of this kind, as the "Eurofighter" represents, less than ever! From 1955 to 1985, Austria, as a neutral state in a much more difficult military policy environment – Hungary's crisis 1956, the Czech crisis 1968 and so on – came out of this type without interception hunters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] And in the current changed world political situation, we certainly do not need that!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8852	The next address is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8873	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Values for speakers, especially from the opposition! One can, of course, take a lot of theoretize about the security of our country, one can suppose that one can say prophecies, one can also make fun of, Mr Cap, of various requirements in security policy, and one can see what we do not need and what we might need more urgently instead. The question is, Mr Cap: What if You are mistaken if Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen is wrong if others are wrong in your group if journalists are wrong in all their prophecies? Who then takes responsibility for these errors?
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8898	It is impossible to throw items off the gallery! I interrupt the session and ask those who have done so to remove from the gallery.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8925	I welcome the interrupted meeting again and ask Mr Scheibner to make his statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e8946	Ladies and gentlemen! That was really a symbolic act: On the one hand, the polemics and agitation – and on the other hand, just on the gallery, those who stand straight with their lives for the security of the population in Austria, namely the soldiers of the Austrian federal army! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] That's what it's all about! What has not been prophesied about things that we all do not need in recent years and decades and even in recent weeks? For example, they said: We don't need helicopters! – Then Galtür came, and suddenly we need her! They said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't need any special forces. These were considered to be "constitutional dubious". - Suddenly, since the 11th. September, they are necessary to protect against terrorist activities! It's called: We don't need ABC defense. – Then the anthrax alarm came, and you saw: Of course we need them! Finally, it also said: We don't need airspace surveillance. - 1991, however, it was necessary, and after the 11th century. September all were relieved that there were pictures about the willingness to use our "draces" to protect our airspace and the sovereignty of our country, ladies and gentlemen! A few weeks ago, I heard that we only needed 6,000 soldiers for the Austrian federal army, that would be enough to waste money. – Now 11 000 soldiers are involved in the use of disasters, 2,000 soldiers are safeguarding our borders against illegal immigration and 1,000 soldiers are involved in foreign operations, ladies and gentlemen! On the one hand, there are partly ideologically illustrious forecasts, on the other hand, there is a clear constitutional mandate that this government has taken over and carries with it, even if it is sometimes unpopular. I mean, with the security of our country, one should not pursue a party policy! That is irresponsible, and we are not at our disposal for that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer has said that there has been a catch-up discussion for some time now. – Mr Gusenbauer, that is right. There has been a discussion for a long time, namely for decades, on the need for airspace surveillance. And your party – which has already been addressed – has always been for this need to continue to be in a federal government for the purchase of interception hunters, at least as long as you were from SPÖ in the Federal Government, or at least as long as you, as in 2000, have seen a chance to remain in a federal government. I'll tell you: I am proud - even if you say otherwise - to belong to a political group which is not enough even in the time when it was in opposition to make this little game, namely with the security of our country's party policy! We have always committed ourselves to safety, to the federal army and therefore to airspace surveillance! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Today, they submit a request from the opposition that a referendum be held in respect of a future purchase of interception hunters. But you know very well that a referendum on a purchase decision by the Federal Government is simply not possible, but is simply unconstitutional. That's why you ask for a Constitutional Act and thus place the purchase of interception hunters in the same rank with the basic principles of the Austrian federal constitution as the democratic or the rule of law. [[Abg. Dr. Petrovic: No!]] . Very well, Mrs Petrovic, this is clear from a report by Professor Haller. You know that, and you thus bend the Austrian federal constitution, just as you tried or did in time when you ruled with two-thirds majority. Whenever you knew that a matter that fit you is unconstitutional, you simply have the whole thing outside the control of the Constitutional Court with your two-thirds majority... [[Abg. Edlinger: We never ruled with two-thirds majority!]] – Together with the coalition partner you had these very well! At that time, you even put nature parks in constitutional rank, because it suited you. That is your understanding of constitutional law and the fundamental principles of the state! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They also know that all international lawyers have clearly observed the need for an active component of airspace monitoring. Constitutional lawyers like Rotter and Mayer say: Any sovereign state must be able to monitor its airspace, and appropriate devices are also needed to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to comply with the proposal you put forward in your application for practical airspace monitoring, which you have to say, as an Austrian Minister of Defence. What do you say? Are you here? – They say: We do not need interceptors, but airspace monitoring is sufficient to implement by having radar systems and anti-aircraft missiles. According to your request, Flyer defense missiles are sufficient to secure our airspace! That means: First shoot – and then consider whether that was also justified. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Gartlehner.]] This is not the understanding of security policy that this Federal Government has and I also have as a Minister of Defence! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have also put forward the proposal to do so together with others. They mean that others should take over this task for us. – This is theoretically possible, Mr Cap, and you know it. It is theoretically possible if we are or are a member of a defense alliance. The only defense alliance is NATO. There is no example of this either, because mutual support is also very costly in peace, but there it would be theoretically possible. But you, Mr Cap, have also had to reject this question, because otherwise you would not have become a clubman of your group. To reject one thing and not to support the other is exactly the irresponsible position we criticize you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. I want Austria to be able to fulfil these sovereignty tasks from its own capacities and with its own possibilities in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] They constantly – and this is the problem at this discussion – face these necessary expenses for the security of our country to maintain the social state. And now, in my opinion, this is particularly critical of you, you also make a connection with the flood disaster in Lower Austria and Upper Austria! – I will come to the point, Mr Kogler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I tell you very clearly and clearly: This Federal Government has committed itself – and is also committed – to helping the victims of this flood disaster, as well as to ensuring that no single euro has to be spent on the new acquisition of interception hunters in the next four years. Mr Kogler! I have made it clear that there is, of course, no link between the compensation of victims and the procurement of the interception. However, it is clear to me that it will be more difficult in the next few years to secure the tasks of Austrian defence on a budget basis, and that is why I have said that I agree that in the field of airspace surveillance, we are going from useful to necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Yes, honourable Member, the useful will be reduced to what is necessary. With 18 interception hunters in Konnex with SAAB 105 aircraft, which we still serve until 2010, airspace monitoring can be performed. What is not possible with 18 aircraft is training, training and enrollment in an international or European security system. Mr Gusenbauer, it is not my priority to do so. My priority is to comply with the constitutional mandate of airspace surveillance, and this will also be possible with these capacities, with the most modern devices for which we have decided! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Parliamentary Cap has said that the time has changed since the end of the 1980s and that is why we do not need all of this now. – You know very well, Mr Cap, that the purchase of the "Draken" interceptors, which your party has defended, was absolutely necessary. At that time, Members who are still sitting in the House today, to all those who have called for a referendum on the purchase of "drugs", said that they are endangering the security of the country and misusing the Constitution for Party Policy. I'll tell you: For the then threat picture, the 24 "draces" were certainly too few, but they are sufficient for the current threat image or just for the protection of sovereignty. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who is the enemy?]] In 1991, Mr Cap, the "draces" have also demonstrated this.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9088	Mr Federal Minister, please ask for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9103	In 1991, the "drugs" also demonstrated this need. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Who is the enemy?]] Mr Cap, as a final point, I say to you: I can be wrong about the need. The damage constitutes a proportion of public expenditure, but the benefit, an economic aspect, amounts to several billion euros. However, if you are mistaken with the non-necessity you have claimed, then it would be fatal for the whole Republic! We will also fight against your polemics. We will have to make these decisions. We will ensure that Austria's sovereignty on land, but also in the air, is guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9142	Mrs Dr Petrovic spoke on an actual correction. I would draw attention to the fact that this has to start with the replay of the allegation to be corrected and that this claim has to be compared with the corrected facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9166	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister of Defence has said critically that the opposition's call for a referendum on the acquisition of the fighter aircraft of an equation with a vote on the fundamental principles of this republic, democratic principle, rule of law, federal principle and so on, would be the same. – This is incorrect! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Schweitzer.]] Rather, we are on the ground of the Constitution, which is precisely differentiated, in Article 43 the 'willful referendum' and in Article 44 para. 3 the mandatory referendum. What we want is such a decision, not a basic principle...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9190	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Willing statements are not the subject of an actual correction!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9209	The Minister for Defence has referred to the wrong sections of the Constitution in connection with our request. This is wrong. We respond to Article 43: We want a willing referendum, and this is possible and necessary.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9239	Next, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Grasser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9260	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Appreciative Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the two debates of today are very good at seeing that it is important and necessary that we have a federal government that is aware of its responsibility to set clear and right priorities for our country and for the population. It must be said just under the impression of the inconsistible flood disaster that we have already discussed today: There are our neighbours in distress, there are our businesses in distress, there are our employees, the employees of the companies, in distress – and therefore the only priority that we as the Federal Government and you as Members of the High House have to put at the centre of the compensation and reconstruction of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever was on the spot and saw the pictures knows: It is now a matter of opening up perspectives. It's about giving people hope again. It is a question of giving people safety, and this security has several facets, and it is to be defined in a comprehensive way, as the Federal Chancellor has mentioned today. Therefore, I am not at all of the opinion as to how it has been articulated by the Social Democrats today by saying that we are giving up everything. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not give up on the fundamental objectives and priorities of this federal government, but we say very clearly: Of course, we are still in favour of a tax reform, of course we are still in favour of a fundamental discharge of the population. This remains the major objective, just as it remains the goal of achieving a balanced budget over the economic cycle. But you also have to be ready to say: Policy is the feasible and the compromise of the potential, and therefore it is also ready to bring a minimum of materiality and seriosity into such a debate. If the government has decided on the morning to provide emergency aid to flood victims more than € 1 billion, this is the important priority that we have set today. However, one must also have openness and honesty to say to the population: Everything will not be possible at the same time! However, it is far from correct what is claimed here by the opposition that we would say goodbye to our objectives. On the contrary: We continue to say yes to the tax reform, we continue to say yes to a discharge, but openly and honestly that this will not be possible until 2004. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Haider says that too?]] We'll have to move this one year. Of course, we continue to say yes to full employment, and you could be happy if you had only somehow come to the field of the benefits of this Federal Government in all of these issues during your time of government! Ladies and gentlemen! We had a record employment in Austria in July this year. More people than ever before were employed in our country in July of this year. It was performed: Austria is with regard to unemployment rate Thank God among the top three in Europe. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] That is why this federal government is closer to full employment than any other federal government has done before us. We will continue to implement our priorities, namely the economic recovery of research and development, education and infrastructure, and we will show the population: This is a wise government work, a reform work that focuses on the priorities of the population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does Haider say?]] I would like to say to Mr Gusenbauer, who is not present at the moment but who has spoken about how we do not achieve our financial objectives. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: What does the Jörgele say?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, when we compare what the revenue and expenditure of the Republic are – adjusted without interest payments, we leave away the interest payments for the old debt! – then it is said that we have more than tripled the primary surplus and achieved more than €7 billion in primary surplus in 2001. I say quite frankly to you: If we hadn't had social-democratic financial policy for 30 years, we wouldn't have had social-democratic German Chancellors for 30 years, who infused us with 160 billion euros – 160 000 million euros! – we had to accept debt in 2000, then we would not have to pay interest of more than €7 billion per year! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We could finance the aid to flood-damaged people from the surplus, we could finance the interception hunters from the surplus, we could finance the tax reform from the surplus! – What we do is to work out your old loads! That's why you shouldn't talk big! You're sitting in the glass house! They're throwing stones! You will also have to answer the shards yourself! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This continues, as has already been pointed out, with the double density of social democracy. I was once able to carry out a urgent request to see who made the principle decision for interception hunters in Austria. Who hit her? – You know, of course, that it was Chancellor Sinowatz, who was born on 26 May. In March 1985, as chairman of the Council of State Defense, the recommendation to the Federal Government was to obtain the "drugs". He has already said that we must start negotiations in good time for the third generation of aircraft, i.e. for the interceptors, which is now to be obtained. You know that it was a Finance Minister Vrannitzky, who supported it at the time, and you know that every Social Democratic Chancellor has since been in favour of the procurement of interception hunters. You know that the Coalition Convention, which was planned between the Social Democrats and the People's Party, included in Chapter IV the procurement of helicopters on the one hand and of interceptors on the other. [[Abg. Dr. Mertel: You're always talking about the past!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is likely to be very clear from this that in the time when the Social Democracy has assumed state-political responsibility, it was very well known, on the basis of constitutional, international and EU-law considerations and for security reasons, that it is necessary to obtain withdrawal hunters. That's how you've obviously always seen it! Now you operate from the SPÖ child-moving. Now you don't care what you said yesterday. They exchange government policy against opposition work and against polemics. - That's not our thing! We are aware of the responsibility for comprehensive security in Austria for our population. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There is no such link between the financing of aid for flood victims and the corresponding operating compensation and the procurement of interception hunters. It has been said very well that, unfortunately, it is God's because you have carried out a massive debt of the country, threatened the future of the country and violated the generation contract, there is no treasure in which there are now several hundred, millions or even billions of euros that you can now use and say: That is what we are funding now! They have irresponsibly made a debt policy in our country. That is why we do not have to finance this from 2005 onwards, but only from 2006 onwards, because the Minister of Defence has sent a grateful signal to postpone the date accordingly from credit. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: That hasn't moved for a long time!]] I think it is a very important and plausible signal that he said, knowing that there is no such connection: Let us move the whole thing one year – as well as the tax reform has been postponed by one year – and let us be willing to set priorities within the German army from 24 to 18 aircraft, but let us also set different priorities for the use of disasters and for the equipment of the Federal Army. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A connection!]] In view of this, I must say: Hat off to this Minister of Defence who is willing to give such political signals to the population! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you say, Flood aid instead of interception hunters, then it's an insult to the common sense! No one in the population will be able to imagine this X for a U! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I can only assure you: This Federal Government will continue its policy, a policy that means stability-oriented fiscal policy with a firm commitment to the objective of a balanced budget over the economic cycle! And if you have criticized that, after we succeeded in achieving a balanced budget for the first time in 2001 for more than 30 years, we have a 0.4 percent deficit in 2002 because the economy is not as good as we actually thought, that is to say, a short error in the balanced 2002 budget without this entry of the sad flood disaster, then I must honestly say to you: We are ahead of you by light-years with our financial policy! [[Abg. Edellinger: It's all filthy!]] Even if we miss our goals far, I can say: You'd never have come there! That is why I can only say: It's exemplary what we're doing. Take an example of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9440	Mr Federal Minister, please ask for the final sentence!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9455	Ladies and gentlemen! That's why our policy means: To implement structural reforms for Austria, from childcare money to university reform to employee care, to prove flexibility for the victims of floods and to make compensation an absolute priority there. Let us not say: either – or, rather, let us be aware that it is both about safeguarding social security in our country and about safeguarding the security and sovereignty of Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9485	The next address is Mr Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9507	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Finanzminister! Mr. Minister of Defence! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Professor Van der Bellen – he is now no longer in the hall – has pointed out in his contribution to the debate that in his view it is in counter-businesses, and I am the Minister responsible for counter-businesses to handle "Voodoo-Economics" as he has formulated it. He has literally spoken of a "economic disfavor of first rank". My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let me face this with a quote of a largely unwarranted media witness from the French left-liberal daily "Le Monde" – which is certainly known to you all; Andreas Khol has provided me with this quote. It is a journalist named Joëlle Stolz, so the whole thing is, as I said, highly suspicious. It goes into "Le Monde" with regard to the takeover and the related security aspects. But that shouldn't be my topic now. The technological impact is also described in "Le Monde". Ladies and gentlemen! I quote – translated – literally: "This choice also allows this small country, the strength of its skilled workforce and its good school level" – here referred to the OECD study, the PISA study – "to connect itself to the locomotive EADS in the key areas of aviation and Telekom." – One thus connects to the locomotive EADS, which knows everything that has to do with aerospace technology in Europe in Europe, or to which everything belongs, including Daimler-Chrysler. Joëlle Stolz refers to the interception business as "the entry ticket into the high-technology club". Professor Van der Bellen, I'd like to face this with your quote, which you're talking about "Voodoo Economy". You're an economist, and I'd like to tell you: A "economic unrest first rank" is not all that! As you know, Professor Van der Bellen, in the field of military procurement, the question of counter-businesses is not something you can choose and what alternatives there would be for, but it is quite customary. In the last nearly 25 years, that is since 1978, Austria has had quite positive experiences with counter-businesses – although I add that the volume has, of course, been quite different from in the course of the "Eurofighter" acquisition. Not less than 160 counter-businesses have been handled since 1978, with a procurement volume, Mr. Gusenbauer, of € 1.44 billion. Compared to the counter-business commitments of €1.96 billion. In reality, however, more has been implemented than that, namely €2.49 billion. And so it will be one of my first tasks to get the best for Austria's economy, the best for Austria's jobs and the best for our regions. Counter-business negotiations with EADS are not bad, there is already agreement on many points. It is clear that the critical points to be clarified by decision-making in mid- and perhaps at the end of September – which is to be concluded at the same time as the procurement process by the Minister of Defence – are that critical points such as the Pönale agreement and the arbitration procedure are still open. It will also be possible to speak in detail about the accounting and the additionality of counter-businesses. It is particularly important from my point of view – and I am not going to go away from it – that EADS be freed, on its own. In July of this year, the public has already said that the coming year, ladies and gentlemen, says: 2003 to implement counter-actions at the order value of € 1 billion. I assume that the contracts are meant to be concluded, and I will pay great attention to the fact that, at the time of the decision-making and signature under the counter-contract, there will be a very significant start-up package of counter-contracts, which is then ready for signature of the contract. [[President Dr. Fischer is taking over the presidency again.]] We will be careful not to be able to do anything for 15 years – for as long as the counter-business agreement runs – but to include a milestone concept that allows us to evaluate these counter-businesses over and over again. In these counter-businesses, which we want to assess together with the Wifo and the IHS as accompanying controllers, the social partners, leading scientists in the framework of the "platform counter-businesses", and as a dock for the economy, the "ARGE Offset" has been established, which has already become active and has been able to establish initial links for companies. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If we use this door opener function, we make the most of this compensation volume of at least 200 percent, from this volume of about €4 billion over 15 years the best for our economy, the best for our jobs! Let us also take note of it, if there and there it is possible to benefit from flood-damaged companies against transactions! I hear from the people of EADS that you want to put a special focus here, and I think this is quite appropriate. Let us also be of the opinion that we want to have a maximum transparent process here! I would like to make this counter-business contract available, if possible, not only to you, but to all Austrians via the Internet and other suitable media. We will see whether the contracting party agrees on this point. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Do this with the old contracts!]] Let us be aware that these counter-businesses should bring us a real technological boost, not only in the field of transport technology, not only in the field of aerospace technology, but also in those areas which are also included in the call for proposals as key technology areas, namely information and communication technology, throughout life sciences, including biotechnology and medical technology. However, environmental technology such as nanotechnology and materials technology should also be of outstanding importance. We work together to ensure that Austria's medium-sized economy is taken into account accordingly! Of course, media coverage focuses mainly on the large and the very large, especially on the hundreds of millions of euros, but be aware that on the one hand, direct counter-businesses with medium-sized enterprises must be our goal and that, on the other hand, medium-sized and smaller enterprises naturally benefit indirectly, because if an Austrian large-scale company receives a large order, then subcontracting contracts also reduce much for small and medium-sized enterprises. I will work hard on this and I am already working with my employees, the social partners and many others to make the most of these counter-businesses for Austria's economy and its employees. Thank you, Mr President, for giving the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9549	The next speaker is Mr Deputie Gradwelt. The clock is set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9571	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In his opinion on the urgent request, Mr Bundeskanzler called for greater seriousness on this subject and referred to the first item on the agenda. – After this giant of members of the government who have now spoken, I must not only say to you as a member of the opposition, but as a Member of this House: It is precisely this same seriousness that we, as Members of this House, are also expected from the government bank, Mr Bundeskanzler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If the Minister of Finance stands up here and says that we could finance the interception hunters out of surpluses if not 30 years of social democratic government policy had caused deficits, then this is not serious. Mr Finanzminister! I would recommend that you ask the Lord sitting next to you, how this has been over the last 14 years and how it was in 1999 when Austria had a debt situation that was better than that of the other EU members. And today you're making yourself up here and talking about surpluses? – I suppose you would have wanted Austria to remain at its stand after 1945, so that we would have an infrastructure like a developing country. Then perhaps we would have these surpluses, Minister of Finance, but not in a flourishing republic in which we could live Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Minister of State Defense! If you speak so charmingly of this active component of airspace surveillance, then this is nothing but the beautification of the fact: In reality, you are striving to buy combat machines, combat aircraft, heavily armed combat aircraft, which are not necessary for monitoring. [[Abg. Zweytick: Who are we to fight with?]] – Hannes Zweytick, stay with your vineyard! I think you understand more about that. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from the region where the interceptors are stationed and in which these fighter planes will be or will be stationed in the future. The burden on the population there is not at all interested in anyone, most of all in the case of the Minister of Defence. Otherwise I could not imagine, Minister of Defence, that you have now reduced the useful to what is necessary by going back from 24 to 18 interceptors. It is true, Minister of Defense, that the procurement request 24 plus 6 and the military regularly explained to us, among 24 interceptors, under 24 – now – fighter aircraft, highly modern, untested series... [[Abg. Young: For what assignment? Ask Mr Gaál, he will explain this to you.]] Mr. Jung! We all know – and you have had it several times in recent months Evidence provided –: You'd rather sit in the German Bundestag. [[Abg. Young: Don't talk to such a holler!]] Try to get you there, and please don't bother me with your really unnecessary calls! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we are now on the necessary level after this flood, Minister of Defense, I ask you – you have previously praised the soldiers, some of whom are also attending the debate here today, and I would like to do so, because very, very many of these soldiers have not only risked their lives in the use of floods, but have worked until exhausted to help people –: How come, Minister of Defence, that pioneer units come to flood water and have to borrow technical equipment, motor saws from private companies or from private households to help where their help is needed? Mr. Defence Minister, I ask you: In a request answer from you, you are carrying out – and you can calculate it – a surveillance flight costs 130 million schilling. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I don't say that, please!]] – This can be calculated from your request answer: 130 million schilling. [[Abg. Boy: That's a nonsense!]] How many motor saws and how many other technical equipment for the pioneer forces and for the troops involved in the use of disasters can we obtain with them, Minister of Defence? And wouldn't that also be a point for the security of this country? – I think it would be the important point for security in this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Since we had the debate on the compensation for flood victims before, I ask you, Mr Murauer: How will you explain to the inhabitants of your home community that you are here for the financing of sintering combat aircraft from 2006 onwards, while the financing of future protective buildings, as Mr Molterer has said today, has not yet been secured? How will you explain to the people that then there may be no money to build these protective buildings to protect their property and property? Therefore, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude with the words of Mr. General Force Inspector, who said in the "profile": We now see ourselves as an instrument of foreign policy and less as part of a purely Austrian defence policy, because there is no direct conventional threat of Austria. - Quote. If that is the case, as Mr General Force Inspector says, then we do not need a interception hunter, then we should use these funds, even if they will be spent in the future, to protect people from such storm disasters as we have had in the last 14 days, and not fight jets!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9687	The next speaker is Mr Jung. The watch is gladly set to 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9709	Mr President. Gentlemen from the government! High house! 11 000 Austrian soldiers are currently in operation in floods, another 2 000 on the border and 1 000 abroad. There is no comparable army in Europe, which is currently performing such a service, and it is thanks to the Austrian Federal Army. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: How many catchers are actually in flood use?]] As a comment for the demagogens of all kinds and the new "wehrspecialists" of SPÖ, like Mr Gradwelt – the speaker seems to be no longer even talking to the line; Experts are not asked – one: All those who know this number of 14 000 should also bear in mind when the debate about the abolition of compulsory military service begins. Neither with the 5,000 to 6,000 men of the Greens, nor with the 10,000 to 15 000 men who have called for a professional army, would this objective be met. We are much more helpless today than we are thanks to God through the intervention of the Federal Force. Keep this in mind, please! The debate will certainly come back. So it was at the outbreak of the Yugoslavia War. No one could imagine at that time that there would ever be a conflict again. The end of the story was even told and proclaimed. In the same way, the resistance to the "draken" post-purchase was great. Then, when the strange "MiG-21" crisscrossed the Styria, it was suddenly quite different: They called for help for the previously so-called scrap-birds, and our "buam", as they suddenly called the chief-people's desire, were there when they were called, because responsible politicians also enforced the procurement against the pressure of public opinion. Today our soldiers with partly unfortunately also obsolete and sponsored equipment are in use to help because in good times too little money was available for them. There were better things to do than buy war bridges for pioneers. These war bridges, as your demagogically called "warring apparatus", Mr. Cap, are exactly the ones we need today. [[Call the SPÖ:Grasser! Grasser!]] – Show Now you are heading towards Corsica, Mr. Colleague, or where else? – These war bridges are what we need today and which we could not obtain in your time of government, because the money was not there in good times and not in bad ones at first! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] So it was in Galtür when it came to the helicopter procurement. I am sure that then, when – and in this use, after hundreds, perhaps thousands of hours of flight, you will have forgotten what it was about, you will have forgotten the post-purchasing for the current helicopters; for in the good times you forget the army and in the bad ones call after it, but you are not willing to give it the minimum that it needs to carry out its tasks. The successor to the "Draken" took place from the decision-making stage among social-democratic chancellors. In 1999 your spokesperson called for new equipment. Yeah, what about it? – You’ve forgotten it, you’re just saying you don’t have anything to do with your past, you want to do with the old SPÖ, you’ve explained it yourself. I understand that you want nothing to do with the 2 000 billion schilling debts that you have left us, but now you are already talking about the old SPÖ, Mr Cap. Nothing else you do. They're going to do what Adenauer is supposed to have said once: "What's the matter with my stupid chatter yesterday?" – By leave, except for the content of this sentence: By Adenauer and a statesman of his own, Mr. Gusenbauer, you are still very, very much apart, you and your entire "Toscana Group" – or should I perhaps say "Corsika Group"? Please tell me: What has changed since 1999 so that you have made this swivel? How much and where has Europe become safer? Where are your experts, Mr Gusenbauer, who should speak and answer on important issues? You have not brought your shadow cabinet together so far when I see Heide Schmidt, whom you have most recently considered as a foreign minister. In your National Security Council, neither does your foreign-political speaker – he has not got the place there – nor your interlocutor Gaál – even he has no place – nor the expert for NATO and WEU questions One. None of them have got a place in this body that can decide on the security policy of Austria, and none of them are talking today because you are not interested in security policy because you want populism and nothing else, Mr Gusenbauer! So the situation is in reality. You have passed from neutrality, from that neutrality that you sell outside, because without airplanes, you know very well, the protection of neutrality by international law is not possible if you look from the Rambo concept of your ex-Klubobman Kostelka according to the motto "shoot first and then look at it" which is really not to be taken seriously. What you really think of neutrality, I can explain by a single example. In the course of the Kosovo crisis in 1999, NATO air vehicles used the Austrian airspace without permission in 33 cases, mainly during the night and in the area of Bad Radkersburg. This use occurred in the awareness that Austria cannot take countermeasure. – Did you inform the Austrian population about these neutrality violations? Have you done something about it, Mr Gusenbauer? The SPÖ was then in the government. At the time, their government has approved a violation of Austria's neutrality and kept it secret from the Austrian population! This is an immense and frivolous injustice, but you did not want to talk about it, otherwise you would have to talk about what you can do about it. You avoided that. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Minister was the Fassl evening!]] What else are you supposed to do, Mr. Colleague? You always say that you would be setting other troops within the framework of the future European security policy, to which you are supposed to confess, that the airspace surveillance should take over someone else. - Who? Should this make Germany, or do we want to ask the Italians if they are monitoring our airspace? And if they agree, what do we pay them in return? – It can only be a fool that someone takes over the costs for us! We would have to bear the same costs at other levels and the risks too. We won't, while other combat troops are sending out to put the military music and the gulash canons. There is an example of such a country: However, Luxembourg, a Dwarf State which has transferred its airspace surveillance to Belgium. Luxembourg is paying the costs for a warship. Should we ask the Italians to allow us to finance submarines so that they can take over airspace surveillance for us? You can't seriously mean this yourself, Mr Gusenbauer. It can't be that way. We, the coalition, do not let us take you into a conflict between short- and medium-term floods to be dealt with and the long-term and state-politically necessary airspace security. Both are necessary! Flood victims currently have priority, and there is no doubt about that. They will receive all necessary support and can rely on us and on the federal army as they have been able to do. The decision to reduce the number of airspace surveillance aircraft has not been easy for the Minister. It will be accompanied by a reduction in our opportunities to cooperate in the European Security Association, but it is true at the moment: Austria first!, and nothing else. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, who have called this special meeting for aircraft purchase so very "surprising" and "necessary", so urgent and "surprising" that you could get the signatures for it before the summer break and that Mr Gusenbauer could come back from his Corsica holiday just in time, you should go a little bit in the security policy and consider if you do not argue in the wrong direction, because in the long run the Austrians cannot be carried around on the nose. And something else about your own responsibility: We pay – calculated in Schilling – for the debts left by you alone in interest, without repayment, 100 billion annually, 100 billion! One year, Mr Parnigoni, we could clean up all flood victims by 100 per cent and also buy 60 interception hunters! You have left these debts behind to us – and the problems too!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9806	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9827	Federal Chancellor! Estimated Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is really terrifying that the Social Democrats are right in every way – everyone, including the security policy! – in order to be able to make a supposed political point in the population, at a time when we have to note that our country has hit one of the worst disasters or the worst disaster in the Second Republic. We had to learn unexpected floods, and no one in this republic believed that anything like this could ever happen to us. As I come from the Steyr region, I know what's called floods, and I also know how incalculable floods can be, but no one, including us, has expected this flood disaster to reach such an extent. In this situation, ladies and gentlemen, of social democracy and of the Greens, you say: There is no need to prevent a disaster, not even in the airspace. – This is cynicism! This is cynicism, Mr Gusenbauer! [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Complete nonsense what you're talking about!]] You have adopted all your decisions. Obviously, no one in your group remembers that you voted in the Council of State Defense. It has already been shown that your people signed it in the coalition agreement when you felt responsibility. Now you have changed to left populism and distance yourself from it. Since February 2000 you say: Cost it what it wants, we do everything we can to be party-political! – And for this to happen, a country's security policy must also be maintained. The Austrians, however, have a right – I would like to say this here – to ensure that their country is properly protected on the ground and in the air. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If there is a constitutional amendment to the discussion, I would like to say to you: We need to change the Constitution if we do not want any surveillance aircraft, no interceptors. If that is the case, then the Constitution must be amended and recorded in the Constitution: No, we're not securing our airspace! And that is to be told to the population. Mr Gusenbauer, if you honestly want to argue in politics, you must say: Estimated Austrians, we refrain from protecting the airspace and keep it in the Constitution! – But not with the People’s Party, not with this government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The "drac" purchase was also in discussion for many years, there was for and against because one could not know or know that airspace injuries occur in an Austria that is neutral, and the neutrality may already be enough safety for one or another alone – until the time when in 1991 the foreign MiGs have flown over Austria to Graz! Then the "drake" at once was not loud, but quiet, properly stationed, in the Styria, the population was happy. The result of the popular desire, Mr Gusenbauer, has shown that the Steirs are very well aware of the importance of a interception hunter, the importance of safeguarding the airspace. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now some strong arguments from this government and the Austrian People's Party. We are and remain a reliable party, a reliable government also on security issues, even if you do not want to do so, even if you take out the last argument to question security policy: Nothing's happening to us! – One can rely on this government, not only on issues of state security, but also on economic and social security! Whether we're neutral or in an alliance like NATO: There is no land that does not guarantee its airspace! The Federal Chancellor has already quoted the fact that all countries – I say – have corresponding aircraft and are ready to secure their airspace. Only in Austria does social democracy mean something different and try to argue here and influence the population: No, we don't need that! Look out the window, the sun shines! What do we need planes for? – Can be so easy You don't do it unless you've dedicated yourself exclusively to left-wing populism. I can also mention the counter-actions. Minister Bartenstein drew attention to the fact that the counter-businesses of course play a role, and it is internationally common practice for large-scale procurements to counter counter-acts accordingly. Tell me the planes will be cheaper! Tell me that's a corresponding economic impulse! Say that research and development get a boost in this country, and don't say: That's not true with the counter-businesses! Who can control that? – This is being negotiated in the public, comprehensible over the Internet! We also know that the Court of Auditors is an appropriate control body. Ladies and gentlemen! A final word: We need it in a situation like we now have it with this flood disaster, both: This Federal Government secures spontaneous, immediate, sufficient assistance to those concerned, but it also has to guarantee the security of our social systems, the security of our economy and national security. This Federal Government will implement it accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9893	The next speaker is Dr Pilz, Member of Parliament. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e9914	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There is an unmistakable sign that a government has become in great trouble, always when it starts to lose control of the basic accounting methods. I quote: These 24 are a minimum number to safeguard our sovereignty in the air anyway. [[Abg. Murauer: Right!]] – 7. August this year, Quote Minister of Defence Herbert Scheibner. What is the essence of the minimum number? – That there is nothing to do with it. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Banner: 18 is just enough. – That is, according to Herbert Scheibner's numerical logic 18 is equal to or greater than 24. [[Rejoicing with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Similarly, the zero deficit is expected to be planned, if flood compensation is planned, compensation operations are expected to be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government – and here I deliberately include the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Economic Affairs: Before you make the most expensive investments in the Second Republic, try to learn the basic accounting types again! Catchers and zero deficits are not possible, and 18 is less than 24. And it remains, even if this government is expected to be in office for another year. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Very funny!]] Secondly, We need to keep in mind today that we are seeing a lot of people from the flooded areas, including a very, very large number of flood victims. Try, Minister of Finance, Minister of Defence, Minister of Economic Affairs, but also ladies and gentlemen of the government parties to put themselves in the position of those who do not know whether they will be replaced by 20 or 40 or 60 percent who do not know whether it will be enough to partly justify their economic or social existence, who only know one thing: The only thing that's calculated is the only thing that's fixed, the only thing for which there's certainly money, not 20, 30, but 100 percent, that's the fighter planes. This is the message to the people in the disaster areas today. Ladies and gentlemen! I would have expected to say, also in connection with the Chancellor's statement, that you have thought about it before and that you have the will to have governments in other countries in similar situations: The people first!, and not: The Air Force first! In any case, the following applies to us: People first! [[Abg. Boy: That's indecent!]] That's why we asked to stop buying the interceptors and ask people what they really want. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Young: You will not say that the fisherman is indecent!]] How should your new number policy continue? Let's say there's an avalanche winter – what I don't hope. How many interception hunters are then bought? - 14, 12, 10? A spring may return – I hope not – with strong hail damage. – Three interceptors, four interceptors, one catcher? Obviously, everything is enough when it's opportunistic right now. That is why, Minister of Defence, once again: No one – especially after the events of the last days – will believe that any number is serious to take, that any argument is serious when everything can be tactically adjusted overnight. [[Abg. Young: Taking seriously is not your argument! It's clear once!]] I'm not going to put something to you, but I'm just going to repeat something that some commentators have already rightly said. Unfortunately, we are not faced with a serious attempt by the Federal Government to re-establish priorities in this disaster situation, but we are faced with an attempt to use this situation politically, tactfully, in order to get out of the zero deficit and to somehow carry out the story with the interception hunters. [[Abg. Boy: By you!]] If you calculate everything, then you know that the zero deficit cannot be calculated against the flood damage and not even the question of the interception hunters, but that there must be clear decisions here. This, ladies and gentlemen, is what we ask of you. And that's the point. If you are unable to redefine the priorities if you are not able to do what only human propensity and economic reason require, namely to say, the easiest we can give up on the interception hunters, so if you are not able to decide in the sense of the Austrian population, then let the population decide! [[Abg. Young: Is a billion euros not a priority?]] [[Abg. Young: Has decided in 1999!]] Then you will give the people and, in particular, the people concerned the opportunity to decide for themselves once and to say what they need most for their safety! [[Federal Minister Scheibner: 6,000 soldiers!]] They can ask people whether they need the most urgent interception for their safety today and in the future, or perhaps an ecological change of water construction, transport policy, settlement policy. Ask the people! I'm pretty sure what answers you'll get. I have the great suspicion that you are not going to vote because the answers are not right for you. [[Abg. Murauer: Mr Pilz! Are you for or against the federal army or for the abolition?]] There is not even someone on the government bank who says we have to defend Austria in the air. There is no one who believes that we need heavy missile armed fighter planes for long distances to be able to photograph individual unknown aircraft. Mr. Minister of Defense, if you're going to photograph, don't take any machine gun with you, but normally the camera is enough. There must be a reason why you take the fighter device, the NATO-friendly device. There must be a reason why we say that we do not need it for our own airspace, but we need it for the actions we want to be in and those that are led by NATO and the US. Put it on the table! If you now explain – and that was the only new one today – no, with 18 aircraft, participation in international military actions is no longer possible, then I have to say, the justification for the "Eurofighter" is lost, then the "Eurofighter" is even more pointless than it is at present. Come with every new justification You go deeper into the dead end and create more problems. An attempt to take advantage of the witch cross from the situation will bring you to the next situation where you will have to cross the witch next time. And neither the people concerned nor the rest of the people in this Republic deserved this. Security policy has something to do with political honesty. Security policy has something to do with real threats. Security policy has something to do with investing where there is uncertainty and danger. That's why one last time today's call: Change the priorities! Don't take the pick-up hunters! Invest in real security for people! If you are not willing to do so, give the way for a fair and democratic referendum! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10097	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Prammer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10119	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! I, but probably not only I, have received this CD-Rom several weeks ago, and I don't know who made the effort of looking at this CD-Rom as well. [[the speaker keeps them up to date]] [[Abg. Amon: I saw her!]] Whoever had the opportunity to look at what is actually planned when there is "We protect our airspace", it has been exactly clarified. This is actually about scenarios that come from horror films, but not from our reality and not from reality here in our neutral Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Just like the 11. September!]] They have therefore disqualified themselves today. This is actually not to be surpassed by anything else, nor your contradiction, your polemics, which you have already let into the debate all afternoon. [[Abg. Young: Was the 11th. September a horror scenario, Mrs. Colleague?]] – Yes, Mr Jung, we had to hear this too: 11th@item: inlistbox ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Mr Jung, you have to say that a few more times, then we do not have 90 percent of our consent to the refusal of the interception hunters, but at least 99 percent. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are concerned that we have priorities to set. The Federal Chancellor has today repeatedly spoken about setting priorities, fundamental changes in opinion, and other priorities. This is done everywhere, but not at the purchase of the fighter jets. Mr. Jung! A proverb says: No one should consciously protect himself from becoming even smarter. – The SPÖ has become smarter. It's not you until today, Mr. Jung. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Young: Yes, yes!]] One more thing. Today, the year 1999 and the then government negotiations have been mentioned several times. I can still remember very well the government negotiations in 1999, in which the then vice-president said: The purchase or non-purchasing of the fighter jets or the interceptor will not be negotiated with us. [[Abg. Young: Kreisky, Vranitzky, all!]] That was the position of the ÖVP. This was, of course, an important debate during the government negotiations. I still have in my ears the words of the then Minister of Finance, who said: We will simply do so, regardless of whether we need it or not. But you insisted. Today, looking back, I am glad that these government negotiations have at least failed with us, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Schwarzenberger: We also!]] You will also receive the invoice presented. [[Abg. Young: We've gotten the bill from you: 3,000 billion debts from your "glore" finance ministers!]] The next elections are coming, and I think the Austrians will tell you once again very clearly what they think of the politics you are celebrating here. Mr Scheibner was very opposed to this, and twice that a link was established between financing the battle jets and flood aid. Minister Scheibner! I don't know exactly: Commodities You here in the hall, too, when Mrs. Vice chancellor spoke? – Well, then you should also have heard that Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said that we will not only be able to deal with the consequences of this flood in momentary and immediate action, but we will also have to deal with it in the long term, that is, long-term funding. [[Federal Minister Scheibner: I was always in the hall!]] At least that's what Mrs. Vice-Chancellor said. You, Minister Scheibner, say something else, you speak of the miraculous increase in money and of the fact that everything would obviously be so easy and easy to finance. Another thing, because you are so excited about these fighter jets – I would also like to say a word here in the sense of the many women in Austria –: We have something else in mind when we talk about security. They should not negate this 52 percent of the population. [[Abg. Boy: But you can't cash them all for yourself! That's the difference!]] First: We'll discuss with you. Mr Jung, ladies and gentlemen, it is always up to women that they should be involved in the discussion at all, as so-called experts are needed. [[Abg. Boy: No one said that!]] Secondly, What we understand in security is social security. We need social security, we need jobs, we need employment, we need economic security for people, especially in times when we have just experienced them. We need the security that, for example – this has already been said several times today – our firemen are well equipped. We also need the security that our soldiers are well equipped. [[Abg. Young: You've prevented that in the past! You could have done that! For 30 years! Why not? What did you do for it?]] But they are not better equipped by buying 24 or 18 fighter jets, Mr. Jung. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I also wonder why you have opted for these offensive weapons, which are anything but interceptors. [[Abg. Young: What did you do? Say it!]] They want to go into the attack, to participate abroad, and this contradicts what we in Austria understand by neutrality policy. I can only repeat it: The popular desire was placed in a time when many were on vacation, but the result was sensational. [[Abg. Boy: Yes, the cast farmer!]] Now, just after the flood disaster took place, I swear to you that 90 percent of the people would have gone and signed without the SPÖ or other organisations having to stand behind it. [[Abg. Young: Not even all of your Members!]] People are tired of this debate. Let the people decide! Let us make this referendum, and perhaps you will be able to orient yourself.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10370	Mr Bösch. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10391	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pilz! Before You are collaborating here in the debate on the policy of the Federal Government, if you agree in your group on your position on airspace surveillance, because what your Federal Party owner has said here today was not enough to correct his claim that, after a thorough assessment of the Constitution, the interception hunters are necessary. In this we agree with Van der Bellen. Mr Gusenbauer! If you should go on holiday again, I advise you to book a week longer. You should have done so this year, because the Republic would have been spared your speech, which you made here today at the beginning of the meeting. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dietachmayr: Do you want to prescribe us, who is speaking?]] We are grateful to you by the government parties, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, but for this special meeting, because this special meeting gives the Federal Government the opportunity to repeat its priorities again impressively in all the points you have made today. With regard to your opposition policy, because you are so upset, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I can give you the comment of Karl Ettinger, which he writes today in the daily newspaper "Die Presse": Here he notes that your activities are "fitting into SPÖ's plowing pitch and pattern image," which the strongest opposition party has been offering since rescheduling in the Federal Chancellery. ... The danger of being a swindler" – Mr Cap has already praised the free press today, and we are doing so, and therefore I quote the commentator Ettinger from the daily newspaper "Die Presse" – "of course, there are also the acrobatic twists and turns that the SPÖ is presenting in the security debate." Ladies and gentlemen! There is nothing to add to this comment. What the SPÖ is showing here in the question of the acquisition of the new interceptors is indeed a Salto backward. It has already been explained by various speakers today that during the time you put the head of government, all the decisions that have been taken in relation to airspace surveillance have been taken that you have agreed in the "Draken" post-purchase that even in the government negotiations you conducted with the ÖVP three years ago, this was a point. Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government can also clearly say on this issue that it sets priorities. [[Abg. Oils: How?]] - You don't have to call in here, Mr. Ollinger. This federal government is rehabilitating the budget – you are not. The Minister of Finance has already been able to present impressively what sums it has been dealing with. This government reorganises the budget, it relieves citizens, it also provides the necessary help in disaster. This has also been impressively explained at this part-session this afternoon. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This federal government is investing in what is necessary, and this includes airspace monitoring, ladies and gentlemen. The investments made here are forward-looking. Especially at a time when we are dealing with disasters that are not expected to break into the country, we should prepare ourselves for all the events that can happen to our country properly, well and properly. Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, it is necessary to invest in security in time to ensure that, when the disaster occurs, one is also capable of action, and that is what this Federal Government will do.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10454	Mrs Frieser. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10476	Mr President. Mr. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by asking a polemic question: Why not convene a special meeting every year on the issue of the deficit of the Austrian Federal Railways? – The annual deficit of the Austrian Bundesbahnen is the double of the purchase price for the interception hunters, including pension claims. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! For reasons of time economy, I am only allowed to devote myself to the acrobatics of the largest opposition party in connection with the interception hunters. You, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cap, could have said yes to the purchase of the interception hunters, yes to the replacement for the old "draks", because this is the logical and inevitable consequence of the ever-sustaining neutrality you hold. I'll tell you: Above all, at least on questions of neutrality, it is not possible. My previous speakers have already reminded you that in 1999 and 2000 respectively, in the government agreement already quoted, it is obvious that the successor of the interception hunters between the SPÖ and ÖVP parties was determined. The threat picture from 1999/2000 has not changed to this day, but do you know what has changed? – You have lost your government, and you are no longer the Federal Chancellor. This is the reason for your zigzag course in all the essential questions of Austrian domestic policy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dr. Cap! You could have said no if you had first redefined Austrian security policy. We from the government parties have invited you several times to develop a new security option. We have invited you to prepare the option report, we have invited you to prepare the new national and defence doctrine, but They were not constructively ready to talk. You could have said "you" originally. Original would have been at least if you had criticized the type decision. You could have said no to the "Eurofighter" by saying that we are far too integrated into European defence and security policy. You could have said to the "F-16" by saying: Finally, we're closer to NATO. You could have said yes or no to the "Gripe" or the "MiG", but you didn't even express yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In summary, Mr. Dr. Cap – Dr. Gusenbauer has in the meantime escaped –: Their salon populism is in general and in security policy in particular irresponsible. As the Federal Chancellor mentioned, security is indivisible and comprehensive: Federal army, executive and military forces on land, on water – on current occasion – and in the air. Another word about your voodoo economy, where Professor Van der Bellen taught today that if we were in Haiti, it could be fulfilled. You will have to decide, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, what you want to do with the so-called interception billions from 2005. Would you like a tax reduction, according to Mr Edlinger? Do you want more social benefits in the sense of popular desire? Do you want more for flood aid or for education, research and, and, so, "brown" everything? Ladies and gentlemen! The lack of a responsible decision often becomes painfully visible years later. All those who thought the transport helicopters to be a luxury at the time were taught by Galtür of a better person at the latest. Finally, let me say a few words about popular desire, especially as a bully. I would like to briefly quote the editorial by Christian Ortner from the "FORMAT" which carries the title: "A victory of living stupidity." Ortner explains the following – I quote –: "...to grasp even half-clear and consistent legal thoughts," does not seem to be possible in Austria. "That it is nevertheless possible to retain the right to vote" – I suppose he meant the active and passive right to vote – "is actually almost worrying." If Christian Ortner makes these considerations right, I would be very proud to point out that only 9.37 percent of the steirers have supported this popular desire. Styria has the slightest participation of all the federal states in this popular desire. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] You, Mr Gradwelt, naturally abstained from this House, although the Styrian SPÖ organisation fully supported this popular desire, in contrast to the Federal Organisation of the SPÖ. Your Styrian country party president Voves, your clubman, all signed this popular desire. But this was probably the price for Mr. Fudi – and this is quoted as a leaf – to state party chairmen Voves, not like Gusenbauer, as the "largest blind man in this country". Dr. Cap and Dr. Gusenbauer! I believe that it is really not worthy of you to be on a level with Mr Fußi and that you are still trying to get ahead of his career. According to popular desire, we always care to say – this is what we must do in the sense of the editorial by Christian Ortner –: Of course, we must take this popular desire seriously. We must finally do more for the political education of some Members, and we must finally do more for the political education of some citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10581	Mr Dr. Khol spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10605	Mr President. I would like to make a correction to Mr Van der Bellen's opinion. I checked the records. I accused him of making himself strong in an interview for 3 cents of miles-dependent toll, road pricing for cars. He then prevented me – and I am correct now – that the Federal Government has also made itself strong for this. It is true that in the "Austrian Sustainable Development Strategy" the Federal Government has expressed its support for the gradual introduction of a truck toll – I quote – on high-level roads and at international level for a truck toll for freight transport, but never for road pricing for cars. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenberger: What about the tender?]] It is only your idea that car drivers should pay 3 cents per drive kilometre.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10644	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The remaining speaking time of the Green Group: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10665	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Estimated representatives of the initiative "Departure – platform against interception hunters" and popular desire at the gallery! Unfortunately, I have to deal briefly with the comments made by my predecessor. I think it's a "remarkable" achievement when you're out here, quoting more or less 10 percent of the bulls as living stupids, even if commentators have this freedom. I'd have expected something else. I'll tell you something. The problem with this popular desire was quite different. We are actually dealing with an interior minister who has misused his power by law to set an appointment. This has already been discussed several times, but it is particularly objectionable to history that it is unworthy of a developed democracy when the Ministry of the Interior operates the cause of the military. You should remember that. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But the real theme of the day was and is: Is there a connex between the flood aid and the procurement or non-procurement of the interceptors? Mr Scheibner, I can tell you that this Connex has in any case also produced the government and opened the debate, because 18 instead of 24 interceptors in the context of the debate is nothing else. That's why you don't have to stop the others at all. And that makes sense because money doesn't have a mesh. Of course it's not the same, but over time it doesn't have a mesh. If you want the help to be spent on the budget now, we will have to look at it later on, how we can rehabilitate it all the more quickly. In any case, the non-procurement of the interception hunters is an excellent contribution. These fundamental basic knowledge of budget mathematics can also not put you out of control with your will. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Do you know what's going to happen? When the reconstruction process for many areas will be completed in 2005, the first instalments will be due for the interception hunters. And there is, in fact, only a deterioration in the delay in the payment target by one year, which you are addressing here, because the EADS, i.e. the "Eurofighter" consortium, is not of the salvation army and also offers interception hunters, but because this, of course, means an increase in the cost of financing. What do you think? - It's getting more expensive. This is also included in your calculations. The longer the payment target is pushed out, the more expensive it becomes. What else is it? And stop scattering sand into the eyes of the population in this context! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It fits your line. They say: ==References== – But you too are inconclusive. In reality, this is only the result of you buying much too expensive – as measured by the avalanche tender price. It would have always been possible only 18 planes because the "Eurofighter" is so expensive. You will still be questioned in a committee of inquiry, which I can promise you now because the entire procurement was contrary to the call for tenders. The flood comes to your attention now, so you can get out of the patch at all. You could only have bought 18 interceptors by €1.8 billion at all – that's the truth. [[Abg. Boy: That's a naughtiness! That's really immense, such a claim!]] Read in your own alert! This is actually an abuse of this disaster for your project. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And just as you now tell the flood that there is no zero deficit that we still have the highest increase in unemployment rates in Austria, the lowest income growth and ultimately no tax reductions. No zero deficit, no tax reduction! – All of this would have been there without flood. You'll still have to answer for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Young.]] - Wait! Mr Jung, you know how the counter-businesses are. That's the next point, this has to be put to the truth just right here. If I hear today that the whole thing is to be put on the Internet, then I have to say, I feel bruised as far as the previous counter-businesses that have been claimed over the last 20 years, so to speak, have not been answered if one has made a parliamentary request. The Court of Auditors or the Committee of Inquiry shall not receive any documents either. And I'll tell you why: Because, as claimed, these counter-actions have never taken place. And you put this on the Internet in the future. I'll give you a tip: Mr Bartenstein! Put the former counter-businesses on the Internet, which you have already honoured today! Do it! You're totally unbelievable before. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The EADS managers have guided you from where the wind blows: first of all, with regard to the debate around 18 instead of 24 aircraft – they have already told you that you will only get 18 of this amount – but secondly also in the counter-businesses. I quote Aloysius Rauen, who came to Austria extra and gratefully explained the matter in a press conference: Nowhere is as much lied as at grave speeches and at – guess! – counter-actions. – This is the white truth, and with this opinion he is not alone. There are very many economic professors who join this opinion, among others the very deserved Dr. Streissler. – I address this to your address, Mr Bartenstein, if you already want to argue with economists. In reality, at the end of the day, the following remains: If we pursue security policy, then environmental security policy, i.e. protection against such disasters being repeated to this extent, must take precedence over or rather than military upgrade. That is the basic principle, and that is not a political polemic, as was claimed here, but it is clear announcements before the next elections. People should know what they're about. The one party – and another one – stands for this attitude, and you from the government stand for another. You have to know that and you have to explain that. You only have a chance to get out of this self-indebted mud – until over both ears you're stuck in the "Eurofighter" mud! –: Release the way for a referendum! We would accept the result, even if the referendum went out per interceptor. For you, however, it would be the last chance to get out of this patch. That is why this attitude also shows how unreasonable this federal government is. Mr Khol! However, the electoral day will be the decision-making day.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10756	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. The remaining speaking time of his group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10777	Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The essential thing has already been said today, therefore, I would just like to point out briefly, Federal Chancellor, Federal Minister, that the purchase of these type of "typhoon" fighters is the most expensive wrong decision of your government. [[Abg. Boy: Toni, didn't you say we need to buy new planes?]] It's also a bold decision because there's no army in this plane and it's not being introduced anywhere; it's not operational either. And it is also a very lonely decision because it is rejected by more than two thirds of the population and has been liked by you without detailed discussion. Federal Chancellor! What we will have is a function prototype, a phantom with enormous technical problems. [[Abg. Young: Not phantom! Eurofighter!]] – The proof: At the World Championship in Aigen, a start had to be cancelled for technical reasons. What is available is a "Eurofighter" in the test application. Now we're going to try: Austria is the experimental rabbit, and this trial costs at least more than € 2 billion, i.e. 33 billion schilling, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Young:... 2006!]] The rest of Europe is pleased, especially the EADS Consortium countries, if we make the trial of the troops here, which costs us a lot of money. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are getting a plane that is not ready for serial use, which is not yet available today and which is in serious contradiction with the call criteria. Federal Minister! You will have problems with the award guidelines. It is really a serious neglect and neglect of due diligence, because simply must-criteria have not been observed. What you're buying here is a high-agile fighter plane with an enormously expensive weapon system that we don't need – neither in Europe nor as neutral Austria. That is why we will not agree to this purchase, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] We are based on a comprehensive security concept that goes far beyond the military sector, which also includes safe jobs, safe health care and optimal employment, but also, of course, a security policy that makes people feel comfortable and safe and happy to live in that country. We don't need a "typhoon" combat aircraft of 33 billion schilling!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10851	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Ofner. The remaining speaking time of the liberals is 3 minutes. - Please. (Abg. Jung – towards the Abg. Gaál –: A grave speech on the SPÖ policy! – Call to the ÖVP: Salto mortale!)
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10876	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to hold on to some parameters because they could be forgotten about the speeches we have heard in the past few hours. First: Austria is one of the three best-ranking states in Europe, with the result of unemployment, which you always conjure up as a disaster by the opposition parties. It stands for Luxembourg, which is probably to be measured according to other standards, and to Holland in third place. This means comparing unemployment in the Federal Republic of Germany! – From there you can "look" and "stop" something, because there are 4 million unemployed people, you don't get them away and you have the blue letter from the European Union threatening to hang over you. [[Abg. Edlinger: But that has always been the case!]] – Black and blue reigns here, where red-green rules. The difference is blatant! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Secondly, We have experienced this summer the highest number of jobs ever, and it has been the women who have been more involved in the world of work than ever before. Among 151 states, which are included in an official ranking, which reaches the quality as an economic location, Austria has been able to make a single year of black and blue government of 24th place, which was not really bad, in 13th place. – You can't say that often enough. You have to remember this from the opposition parties because you are trying to overlook it fluently in your speeches and not to speak. Something else seems essential to me: There is children's money, and because of the child's money – what else should be the reason? – in April of this year, there has been a first birth growth in Austria for many years. That is, today’s fathers and mothers have already begun to think about what it will be like to get 6,000 s a month; they have laid the foundation stone for it earlier. And on the real topic: Again and again, we don't have enemies, we Austrians only have friends. Who wants to do something to us? Who should be able to do something to us? Who's to attack us? – Here we arrive at the 11th. September last year, because a similar position was taken by the United States of America at that time. If someone would have told them, they would destroy you the World Trade Center, burn the Pentagon for days and you'll have an attack on the White House – the plane was crashed before – and these attacks will all succeed until the one "self-faller", then they would have said you didn't have all the cups in the closet, something like that can't happen! [[Abg. Reheis: The "Eurofighter" will prevent this?]] The U.S. has only friends in the world, it's all not possible, it won't be all, and we don't need to make any arrangements. If we weigh now, of course you won't be any...
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10931	Mr Ofner, the speaking time of the Group of the European Free Alliance has expired. – Please come to an end!
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10946	One will not, as it was put into space, launch an airplane on the Danube Tower from Prussia, but anything can always happen. [[Call the SPÖ: Such nonsense!]] The 11th. September of last year has shown us that this is actually the case. It is the duty of a responsible government to take precautions for the serious situation.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e10984	I call Mr Bruckmann. The speaking time of his group is two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11005	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister of Defence! In itself, I wanted to say a lot more. However, I would like to use my two minutes' speaking time to make a motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Introduce Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, colleagues on the maintenance of airspace surveillance and airspace security, as well as appropriate information to the population, which I explain in his main guidelines as follows: The National Council wants to decide: The National Council, out of constitutional, international, EU and security considerations, acknowledges the need for permanent airspace surveillance and airspace security, and therefore supports the Federal Government's decision on the acquisition of interception hunters and therefore asks the Federal Government to continue the procurement of the interception hunters and to close them in autumn 2002. The National Council invites the Federal Government to maintain its decision that, in this legislative period, no budget-effective payments will be made for the purchase of the interception hunters, but the repayment will only begin in 2006. Furthermore, the National Council calls on the Federal Government to adhere to one of its special priorities, namely to reduce the tax rate to 40 percent by 2010 and therefore to carry out direct and tax reliefs, such as recently for flood victims with €1.5 billion from the Federal Government and countries – if necessary – consistently and gradually. Since I probably still have 30 seconds left, I want to use it to carry out a thought that has not yet been expressed. I would have liked to put a single question to anyone who has entered the polling room in order to put his signature to popular desire, namely: What might the sober Switzerland, which turns every "Frankli" and every "Räppli" three times, have moved to maintain a fleet of 154 fighter aircraft in 2002, dear Dr. Cap? – In my opinion, therefore, 18 interceptors are an absolute minimum of security policy, to which this government must, of course, commit.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11054	Ladies and gentlemen! The text of the motion for a resolution has not been fully read. But I can't make him copy again. In order to solve the matter quickly – without prejudice, we can talk about it in the next presidency – I inform you that the beginning, Litera "a" and the conclusion were read out. The Litera "b" – which the High House should know – is: "on the basis of the new Security and Defence Doctor, the population of the far-reaching security policy changes in Europe, the security obligations arising from the membership of Austria to the European Union; and to inform the needs and requirements of the post-purchasing of interception hunters in the interests of the security of the Republic of Austria and its population." The whole application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11128	Thus the Hohe Haus is informed about the complete text. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Scandal!]] [[Abg. Mr Petrovic: Rules of Procedure!]] Mrs Petrovic spoke on business. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11170	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Beyond this procedure, I agree that this is already the second request to be welcomed, supported or similar in the actions of the Federal Government. In my opinion, it is important to note that, in other respects, when it comes to convictions, we have a completely different debate. I do not believe that actions by the Federal Government can only be supported or welcomed, but the government parties have taken a completely different position when condemning statements made by a government politician.
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11237	Mrs. Dr. Petrovic! I have, of course, looked at every request and examined its admissibility with regard to the very difficult discussion we had some time ago. The first is that all the requests made today, as well as these express requests to the Federal Government, and the second, that we have agreed in the last presidential term, are to examine in detail the question of how a motion for a resolution must be drawn up, and whether there is a difference between a motion for a resolution and a urgent request. In the meantime, I have received an opinion from Parliament's Directorate and have asked for a number of additional considerations and investigations. As soon as this is done, we will discuss in the Presidency whether we are changing our practice. As long as we do not come to the conclusion that we are changing practice, I shall allow applications, namely, normal motions for resolutions in the past. Everything else would make no sense if I now, for example, changed practice unilaterally, without the conclusion of this discussion. I therefore ask that I make the very important observation that no further words are available. That concludes the debate. We come to the vote, and first of all we come to the vote on Amendment No 744/A (E) tabled by Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen, on a referendum on the purchase of interception hunters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who are in favour of this referendum to give a sign of this. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Fear of the people!]] We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, colleagues on the maintenance of airspace surveillance and airspace security, as well as appropriate information for the population. [[Abg. Oillinger: That costs a lot of money again!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: With floods such means...!]] I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is accepted by majority vote. (E 156.) Decision to terminate the 2002 extraordinary meeting
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11319	In agreement with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to make the following request to the members of the National Council: Request The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXI in 2002. legislative period at the end of the 19th century. ==References====External links== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give a sign of approval. . I note the decision on this request being taken unanimously. Reading of a part of the Official Protocol
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11366	In order to allow this decision to be passed without delay to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and to avoid the 24 hours of delay, I can read the corresponding passage of the official protocol on which the presentation to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany will be based. This passage in the Official Protocol reads as follows: "At the request of Dr. Gusenbauer, Ing. Westenthaler, Dr. Khol, Dr. Van der Bellen, colleagues, the National Council unanimously adopted the following decision: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany is asked to attend the extraordinary meeting of XXI in 2002. legislative period at the end of the 19th century. August 2002 to be declared finished." I ask the House whether there are objections to this version. – That is obviously not the case. Therefore, the relevant part of the Official Protocol shall apply in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2002-08-19-021-XXI-NRSITZ-00113_d7e11411	Before I open the next meeting, which serves the allocations, I still announce that self-employed requests 744/A to 749/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Question No 4252/J to 4294/J has also been received. Finally, a question by Mr Haidlmayr has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which concerns business communications, I call on the meeting immediately, at 5.18 p.m., and at the same time declare the 113. Meeting of the National Council for Closed.
